mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. this 15 january 2002 is a significant day in the history of the european parliament. we have elected a new president and i would like to congratulate you most warmly, mr president, on behalf of the group of the european people's party and the european democrats. (applause from the centre) i ask the other groups - and i will say something about the candidates in a moment - to understand me when i say this: there have been many who have doubted that it is possible to elect a member of a smaller country, the leader of a smaller group, as president of the european parliament. i would like to say to you, mr president, and to all of us: i am very grateful that we - including our group - have had the opportunity to make clear the culture in europe, that even a small group, a small country, has a chance to take on one of the most important tasks in the european union. (applause from the centre) the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. this europe is a europe which respects the dignity of all people, of all europeans, when everyone has a chance and when personalities from ireland like you can become president of the european parliament or our esteemed colleague jacques santer from luxembourg can become president of the european commission. i believe that the message today is this: we are once again saying that europe is not dominated by a few, but that everyone has a voice, weight and responsibility. i wish you, mr president, good luck in your work - and you are now carrying out this work for the whole of the european parliament - and much success in the common future of our old, ever-renewing european continent. i would like to pay tribute to your competitors: gérard onesta, francis wurtz, jens-peter bonde and especially david martin. david martin, i remember very well that we had a discussion together a few years ago in edinburgh, the capital of another small nation in europe, in scotland. it is a great enrichment, but also a great necessity, that the political groups in the european parliament, however different their political orientations, should be united and united in one, which is the peaceful, free and democratic future of our continent. i would therefore like to say a warm word of thanks and appreciation to all the competitors, especially david martin, today! (applause from the centre) allow me one last word. mr president, this continent was divided. when many were elected to this parliament in 1979 - in my group, in other groups - no one would have dared to dream that in a few years we would be able to welcome colleagues from central europe to the european parliament. mr president, i would like to propose that on the day of the signing of the accession treaties with the first candidate countries, we invite observers to the european parliament to prepare these countries for democratic elections in 2004. i wish you, mr president, every success for our group. i am not going to be offended if i say this today on behalf of the group of which i have the honour of being chairman, and i am also a little proud that we have kept our word. trust is also important in politics. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is not left in the lurch. i wish you much success in your work and god's blessing. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. i have a question: we have been told that we have to cross off at least seven candidates for the ballot to be valid. is the requirement that you have to put a mark on at least seven candidates still in place?
chairman of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. mr president, i would like to point out that we are preparing a second report. we hope that the commission will also agree that a compromise should be reached with parliament's position, which, as we know, rejected the first proposal in the vote in the economic and monetary committee, but is now prepared to draw up a new proposal in the committee in the katiforis report, which we would like to present to the plenary in february. the council of finance ministers will then have enough time to decide in february. i have written to the spanish presidency on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy and i also informed the president-in-office of the council, mr rato, of this at the meeting of the committee on economic and monetary affairs last week. i do not think that the urgency should be allowed here.
mr president, i have the impression that there will be only speakers against urgency, because i consider this a very important matter. there is a danger that the council will adopt its opinion without the opinion of the european parliament. i think it is urgent that the economic and monetary committee should first give its opinion and then the council should decide. that is why we should reject this urgency.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the new president of this parliament. are we dumber than our children? (applause) in our age of technology, are we not able to push two buttons? we have a pisa study, we have investigations, we have a new president, we have paid a lot of money for this facility, we have been criticized for a long time, and now we want to vote like in the stone age! (applause from the centre and the right)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i am not an expert on questions of procedure. i am, of course, always prepared to accept other convictions when it comes to procedural matters. but when i hear the honourable president of the socialist group calling for a ballot by ballot papers and saying that this is the only correct form of secret ballot, i would like to refer to what you said at the beginning, mr president, that electronic voting is a secret ballot and is in accordance with the rules of procedure. so if we - i treat the question very fairly - want to decide whether we vote electronically or with ballots - and i am happy to admit that you can be of one view or the other - then you have to decide on the form of voting by hand sign, by yes or no. that is the only way to decide this point of the procedure. i would recommend that we now democratically decide how we want to vote. (applause from the centre)
mr president, on a point of order. with all due respect i appreciate the decision the house has taken but this has not been a secret ballot. i know how all of my neighbouring colleagues have voted. i appreciate that if we want to have an open ballot we can do so, but then we should not pretend that we have been voting secretly. we should vote openly by a show of hands. that is my first point. secondly, i should like to say to our colleagues in the ppe-de group that with all due respect, we could have used ballot papers in the same time as we have taken now. perhaps we can now proceed in a way that is really secret.
president-in-office of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished members of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour to appear before you for the first time as president of the government of spain, which holds the presidency of the council of the european union, to set out the priorities of the spanish presidency. the spanish presidency coincides with the change of president of this parliament. yesterday we saw the appointment of a new president of the house and the departure of a president who has carried out her work very effectively. mr cox's political and institutional figure and career guarantee that this house and the presidency will develop fruitful political and institutional relations aimed at strengthening the european union and increasing the role of the european parliament. the european parliament has made a considerable contribution to the european union through its work and its proposals, which are a constant and innovative pursuit of greater efficiency in the functioning of the union. the house has also been able to adapt the various european parliamentary traditions and to try out new forms of relationship between civil society and its political representatives, strengthening democratic control and increasing the legitimacy of the european project. nothing illustrates this better than the codecision procedure, which, however, needs to be improved in the interests of transparency and effectiveness. the spanish presidency will therefore work to ensure that the eight conciliations planned for this semester are concluded quickly. spain wishes to deepen institutional cooperation and democratic control of the union, and i therefore want to ensure the presence of the presidency in plenary sessions, as has been the practice since the previous presidency. i am committed to reporting to the house after the barcelona european council and to taking a final account of the work of this half-year after the seville european council. (applause) ladies and gentlemen, the political horizon today requires the union to be ambitious in three directions. the first is to devise a response to terrorism, from the perspective of building an area of freedom, security and justice. the second is to create an area of greater economic prosperity that safeguards the european social model. and the third is to conclude the historic opportunity of enlargement and lay the foundations for the future enlarged union. to achieve these goals successfully we need to work towards a deeper europe. with 'more europe' we will strengthen the fight against terrorism and ensure the successful introduction of the euro and, only if we are ambitious, we will complete enlargement, make progress in creating a zone of greater prosperity, strengthen the union's external role and conclude the next intergovernmental conference in a positive way. ladies and gentlemen, i want to acknowledge and thank the responsibility that this house and the european commission have shown in the fight against terrorism. the european parliament adopted a resolution calling on the european commission to present a number of initiatives to make the fight against terrorism in the european union more effective. we must continue to work on the path you and the european commission set out at that time. the european union's counter-terrorism action plan must be further developed in the rule of law to prevent any sanctuary for terrorism within our borders. in december 2001, last december, great progress was made in this area. all the union's institutions, and especially the presidency and parliament, must now work to ensure that the instruments adopted then become effective as quickly as possible. these instruments will not be effective unless, at the same time, greater cooperation is achieved between the security services and forces of the states of the union. the presidency therefore considers it a priority to set up joint investigation teams quickly, to increase the efficiency of europol's work and to prevent the financing of terrorists and those who shelter or support them. (applause) as you are well aware, terrorist organizations establish cooperation links with each other in such a way as to enable them to achieve an operational capability that goes beyond the limits set by our borders. spain wants the union to play a more active role in the fight against terrorism at international level. and a first step in this direction is the development of close cooperation in criminal law with the united states, in accordance with the principles which inform the legal order of the european union, as this house has stressed. the fight against terrorism is part of the construction of the area of freedom, security and justice. the presidency therefore considers it a priority to make progress towards a common asylum and immigration policy, improve the management of the union's external borders, strengthen the fight against drug trafficking and achieve mutual recognition of judicial decisions both in civil matters, through the european enforcement order, and in criminal matters. these initiatives require close institutional cooperation if we are to meet the deadlines for building the area of freedom, security and justice. ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of the euro is developing - i can use this expression - more than brilliantly. by the end of this month, few euro-zone citizens will be using national currencies. this is a good sign of the acceptance of the union's policies when they are implemented seriously and effectively. the strength of our currency also requires closer coordination of economic policies. this will result in a boost to the role of the eurogroup, in the strengthening of the broad economic policy guidelines and in strict compliance with the stability and growth pact. the euro will also increase the visibility of the euro area, which will oblige the presidency to ensure that the views of the union are taken into account in international forums. in the last decade, it should be remembered that europe has suffered a six-point decline in its per capita income relative to the united states of america. we must therefore push forward the modernisation of our economies to achieve greater growth. the creation of an area of greater economic and social prosperity will therefore be another focus of the presidency's work. spain intends that the european council in barcelona should address five specific areas in order to achieve 'more europe' as well. first, we will promote the interconnection and openness of european transport and communications systems. the presidency will devote its efforts to the revision of the transeuropean transport networks, the realisation of the single european sky and the further liberalisation of rail transport. the second area of barcelona's work will be the design of a european energy market based on openness, liberalisation, competition, transparency and interconnection. guided by these criteria, the presidency will examine the opening of gas and electricity markets to businesses and consumers, the rules for third party access to networks and the creation of infrastructures and interconnections between national energy markets. the integration of financial markets is also an essential condition for the proper functioning of the single currency and a basic requirement for european growth. spain will work towards meeting the timetables of the financial services action plan and to implement as soon as possible the new approach introduced by the lamfalussy report, based on the necessary respect for institutional balance. we are all aware that employment is the best way of social integration. fourthly, the barcelona european council will therefore seek, on the basis of the luxembourg process and its current framework, to place greater emphasis on the employment strategy in the analysis of the structural rigidities of labour markets, tax and social protection systems and also labour market institutions. the possibility of obtaining a good job is, of course, dependent on the possibility of obtaining a solid training which will encourage student mobility. the fifth item at the barcelona council will therefore be the work programme on education systems for 2010. we must achieve an increase in the quality and openness of european education systems to the rest of the world. ladies and gentlemen, in barcelona the candidate countries will take part for the first time in a working session of the european council. the integration of the candidates into the work on economic and social modernisation is, in my view, the best political signal of support for the enlargement which the union is seeking to achieve. enlargement will undoubtedly put an end to a bitter chapter in the past of our continent and bring countries that belong to the european family, with which we share the same values and which have suffered greatly at the hands of history, into the european family. the spanish presidency has the political will to help all the states which are ready to conclude their negotiations by the end of 2002. based on the current community acquis and the financial perspective, chapters on agriculture, regional and social cohesion policy, financial and budgetary provisions and institutional matters will be negotiated during the spanish presidency. spain will also endeavour to close all chapters which have not been concluded so far. the final conclusion of the negotiations depends on all the members of the union showing their capacity for compromise, on the commission presenting its proposals in time and, above all, on the efforts of each of the candidate countries. the european council in seville in june will assess progress. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we also know - and we want to - that the european union is called upon to play an important and growing political role in international life. the success of european integration and its economic and commercial weight require an increasingly important external profile of the union. the international situation calls for a stronger union presence in areas where peace and security are directly threatened. the spanish presidency therefore hopes to contribute to the development of an ambitious global regional strategy in central asia and afghanistan which will prevent the emergence of new foci of conflict. but it will be useless to ensure a european presence if we do not have the possibility of managing the crisis effectively and, in particular, of having military forces for operations of a limited nature requiring a rapid response. this objective will have to be completed in the near future by the effective implementation of the european security and defence policy and the definitive design of the relations of consultation and cooperation with the atlantic alliance. spain also intends to initiate a debate on this matter so that the fight against terrorism can also become an objective of the european security and defence policy. the credibility of the union's foreign policy must be based not only on its international presence but also on effective instruments for its development and, above all, on a privileged level of dialogue. in this last area, spain considers it a priority to deepen relations between the european union and north america on the one hand and the european union and russia on the other. with the former we must strengthen the transatlantic dialogue to give it greater strategic content. and with russia, spain believes that the european union should support the strategy that this country is developing at the moment. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. ladies and gentlemen, next may the second summit between the european union, latin america and the caribbean will take place in madrid, renewing and promoting the strategic partnership between these two regions. one of the objectives of the summit will be to work with chile to advance the association and free trade agreement, and to push forward the european union's negotiations with mercosur. specific meetings between the union and the andean community and central america will also be held. i cannot but mention here our interest and concern at the development of the situation in argentina. the european union will cooperate with the argentine authorities to find realistic solutions, based on dialogue, which will restore confidence and the potential for growth and competitiveness of the argentine economy. ladies and gentlemen, the european union will also play an important role in the stability of the middle east. to do this, we must step up coordination with the united states and the other sponsors of the peace process. i hope that the recent declaration by the european union and the contacts which have been established in the last few days on the initiative of the spanish presidency will help to unblock a situation of instability which affects the countries of the region and the mediterranean. the middle east conflict has a powerful influence on the barcelona process, the only forum for dialogue bringing together all those involved in the peace process and which will meet at the ministerial summit in valencia. spain will also promote the conclusion of the outstanding association agreements between the european union and the riparian countries, and will work towards the creation of a euro-mediterranean internal market and the development of regional infrastructure strategies. to facilitate this objective, the laeken european council, at the initiative of spain, adopted the project for the creation of a bank specialising in operations in the mediterranean countries, which we will be working on in the coming months in collaboration with the european investment bank and the monetary authorities. we are convinced that only by encouraging balanced development can we effectively combat illegal immigration. conscious of the importance of this phenomenon, spain, together with the sponsorship of china and viet nam, has been working for some time to make the ministerial meeting on immigration between the european union and asem a success. we know that poverty and lack of development cause illegal immigration. that is why the presidency attaches particular importance to the monterrey summit on financing for development, which we are preparing in close cooperation with the united states and mexico. i think i can say that few people could have imagined that, 45 years after the signing of the treaties of rome, 300 million europeans would be using the same currency. we must continue this trajectory of success in a transcendent era for the union. this requires greater participation by our citizens in shaping the future of the union. the laeken european council decided to convene a convention on the future of europe. the inaugural session will be held on 28 february at the european parliament in brussels. there is no better place to reflect both the importance of the new stage of the european union and the recognition that the presidency wishes to give to the work of the european parliament on the future of europe. the spanish presidency will be determined to contribute to the success of this convention. it is up to us to consolidate the process of gradual constitutionalisation of the treaties in which we are engaged and to ensure that the convention will serve as a good method of preparing intergovernmental conferences in the future. i hope that the president of the convention - and it has been agreed - will be able to present a first report of his work at the european council in seville next june. ladies and gentlemen, i have come here today to set out the priorities of the spanish presidency. these priorities must be translated into greater de facto solidarity in order to continue to consolidate, on the basis of balance and mutual respect for the various interests, the greatest period of peace, prosperity and freedom that europe has known. we know that the task is complex and arduous, both because of the number of issues that require our dedication and because of the ambition of our goals. only with this ambition and only through close cooperation between the institutions will we be able - i am convinced of this - to make a reality of this project which has as its ultimate aim the improvement of the lives of all our citizens. thank you very much, your honours, for your attention. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the commission. - mr president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, on new year's eve we celebrated the launch of the euro with great joy throughout europe. it has been only fifteen days since then, but that was enough to complete the transition to the new currency almost completely. in the 12 euro area countries, 90% of payments are now made in the single currency: the changeover to the euro was a huge operation and a huge success. we can all be proud of it because we all contributed to it: the european parliament and national parliaments, governments, the european central bank, national central banks, the commission, commercial banks, post offices, the trade sector, business, the media and all citizens, one by one, who have facilitated this historic change. for millions of europeans, the banknotes and coins they carry in their pockets are the tangible sign of the great political project of a united europe. it is symbolically more than the emotional impact of the abolition of identity checks at intra-community borders. the euro thus becomes a key element in their sense of european identity and common destiny, as well as a tangible sign of the irreversible nature of european integration. the changeover to the euro shows that europeans are ready to embrace change with enthusiasm and determination when it is needed to prepare for a better future and when the issues on the table are discussed in a broad and transparent way. the changeover to the euro shows that europe is capable of great things when there is the political will to do so. we must draw on this lesson to prepare all the steps we are about to take in the process of integration. mr president, mr prime minister, 'more europe' is the motto spain has chosen for its six-month presidency of the union. in the aftermath of the launch of the euro, we can safely say that no choice could have been happier. at the same time, mr prime minister, your government has drawn up a broad, but balanced and ambitious work programme, and i am pleased to note that the priorities set out in this programme are in line with those which the commission has set for 2002. i can assure you, therefore, that you can count on the commission's full cooperation. mr president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, the same ambition that enabled us to launch the new european currency successfully must now be demonstrated and put to use in order to achieve the union's economic and social agenda. we have achieved monetary union: the time has come to focus on economic union and make it a reality. we need growth, which means jobs and a better quality of life. two years ago, the lisbon european council set the objective of making the union the most dynamic and competitive economic area in the world by the end of the decade, an area based on knowledge: a europe capable of enjoying full employment and renewed social and economic cohesion at the same time. since then, the spring meetings of the european council have become the meeting place for economic, social and environmental issues within the framework of an overall sustainable development strategy. the barcelona council will therefore be called upon to take stock of the progress made so far and to define priorities for the coming years. in preparation for the council, the commission adopted yesterday its spring report, which will serve as a basis for the council's work: this year's report is entitled 'the lisbon strategy: making change happen'. the communication adopted by the commission yesterday has a central message: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we have no choice. the strategy agreed in lisbon is the key to developing and consolidating the european economic and social model. the reforms affect a society which already has its own dynamic values, shared and distinctive from the rest of the world, and which thus contribute to the foundation of the european union. when we speak of the european social model, we have these values in mind. from this point of view, we must continue to update the model of society that is possible and desirable in europe: a free, democratic and just society that is at the heart of our citizens. it is not a question of selling off the social heritage, however, but of adapting it, modernising it and also making it permanent. we are forced by history, we are forced by the protection of future generations, we are forced by the challenge of globalisation. finally, we must do so in the present uncertain and risky environment, where the values of genuine solidarity - and not just formal and partial solidarity - are of practical significance for our citizens, especially the most vulnerable. the commission's report examines the progress made so far in implementing the lisbon strategy and concludes that all the conditions for success are in place. on the macroeconomic front, the efforts made over the last decade to introduce the euro have enabled the union to achieve economic stability and protected it at a time when international economic and financial crises were becoming more acute. even in this phase of slowdown, the underlying conditions of the economy remain good in europe. the implementation of the lisbon strategy is also progressing encouragingly. significant achievements have already been made in a number of areas, such as the environment, telecommunications, education, pension reform and research. in other areas, however, progress has been less satisfactory. the commission's proposals are blocked and the deadlines set by the european council itself are in danger of not being met. these areas include some important aspects of the integration of financial services, transport and energy, the community patent and the galileo project. i am pleased, mr president, that you have listed these areas as a priority for your action over the coming months. this delay must be made good, and it must be made good as soon as possible. it is about our credibility and, even more, about our ability to make real progress. without change, we will have less growth and less employment. the commission's report identifies three priorities for 2002: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. firstly, there is employment. europe needs an active employment policy. more needs to be done to remove the obstacles that citizens still have to overcome to find and keep a job. member states must reduce labour costs by lowering contributions to wages and salaries, especially the lowest, and must review those aspects of unemployment benefits which discourage re-entry into the labour market and the excessive ease with which early retirement is accessed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of women in the labour market. the employment rate is also supported by improving skills, education and mobility of citizens within europe and between productive sectors. this means that we must take an active rather than a passive approach to change. secondly, reforms and the completion of the internal market. we need to connect europe and its markets. efforts must be stepped up to complete the interconnection of national markets and to accelerate the integration of financial markets by completing the reforms already initiated. we need to open up and connect energy and transport markets and develop broadband networks in europe. these sectors are the backbone of our economy. we need more competition to reduce prices and increase growth, while maintaining an adequate level of basic services for all. thirdly, education, training and research. education, training and research are certainly the key components of economic renewal, sustainable growth and job creation. the 'knowledge society' is not possible without knowledge. we must therefore increase investment in these areas substantially. an integrated strategy for education and research at community level is needed. this strategy must be based on the concept of networking and mobility and must give priority to technologies of the future such as biotechnologies and clean technologies. finally, as regards the post-barcelona period, our report points to the need to take measures to strengthen the coordination of the overall economic strategy. the aim is to build consensus on economic policy principles and rules that take account of economic interdependencies within the euro area. the three processes involved must be synchronised: the main guidelines for economic policies, the employment guidelines and the process of economic reform launched in cardiff. in this way, the spring council will be able to assess economic and social policy as a whole each year and thus ensure its sustainability. only a more coherent approach will enable us to make more full and effective use of the various instruments at our disposal. we must therefore abandon the methods of the past which were fragmented by sector. mr president, the president of the commission has a role which can sometimes be uncomfortable: the european council is the body responsible for calling on its members to respect the commitments they have collectively made. however, i am sure that you will offer your support when i call on the member states in barcelona to pursue with determination the reform agenda agreed together in lisbon, following the recommendations of the report. we have a duty to ensure that the barcelona council is a complete success. if the process were to come to a halt, the cost of 'non-reform' would become unsustainable in economic terms and also in terms of the union's political credibility. ladies and gentlemen, 2002 will be a crucial year for the enlargement process and we know that the spanish presidency will spare no effort - as we have heard - to maintain the momentum so that it can conclude negotiations this year with those countries which have shown that they meet the criteria for accession. while crucial for its future, enlargement to the east is not the only external dimension in which the union is called upon to engage. relations with the mediterranean countries are a necessary priority of our external action. the spanish presidency expects the euro-mediterranean dialogue to proceed swiftly during the six-month period. it was in barcelona, moreover, that this dialogue was launched. to this end, we must adopt a more flexible approach, by initiating new forms of subregional cooperation with certain groups of countries on the southern shore. secondly, we must put into practice the common idea of the spanish presidency and the commission of a mediterranean bank. whether it is an autonomous bank or a branch of the european investment bank, it must be a place of development where european and southern mediterranean actors work side by side. it is also essential to foster and promote mutual understanding and knowledge between peoples and cultures through specific actions of different kinds. i believe that it is by exporting our experience as peacemakers and our commitment to democracy that we will bring more europe to the world. mr president, you reminded us that latin america is a region of the world geographically distant but very close to european culture and roots, a region which has shared a long historical journey with many european countries. this is the moment when the union must show strong solidarity with argentina, and mercosur in general, in a period of dramatic crisis. argentina must find the path of economic growth again, which is the only way to improve the difficult social situation it is going through. to achieve this goal, there is only one recipe, and that is to regain trust: the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to fulfil its obligations under the treaty. our experience of financial recovery and economic development promoted by trade and integration can be a valuable contribution to latin america's recovery with benefits for all parties involved. mr president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to conclude by saying a few words about the convention which will be taking up its work during the spanish presidency. the convention will have the importance and the opportunity to write an exciting page in the history of europe. it is up to all of us to do everything possible to make this happen. i have already assured president giscard d'estaing of the full support of the commission and its representatives at the convention. the commission expects to work equally closely with the european parliament, the legitimate representative of the aspirations of its people. we must ensure that the debate is intense and fruitful and, above all, that it gives rise to a vision for the future in which the majority of our citizens can identify. the convention and the intergovernmental conference which will follow it must complete the construction of an open, responsible, democratic and just europe. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! mr president-in-office, you come to the european parliament at a time when we are in the process of organizing our work for the second half of this parliamentary term. the technical work for europe is the prerequisite for achieving the great objectives you have mentioned. our group warmly welcomes you to the european parliament. you said yourself it's your first time here. we very much welcome the fact that you will be reporting to the european parliament on the decisions taken under your presidency, three times as president of the council and as prime minister of spain. we are grateful to you for this and hope that your example will serve as a lesson for all subsequent presidencies. we also expect more transparency in the council of ministers and ask you to ensure that the report now being drawn up in the council also produces real results and that an important step towards more transparency in the council of ministers can be taken under your presidency. you also talked about terrorism. we're on your side! there is no such thing as good terrorism or bad terrorism. there is only terrorism, and we must say clearly: wherever people are deliberately killed violently, whether by eta in spain, on 11 september, in the middle east or anywhere else in the world, we must oppose this with all our resolve, and we must fight terrorism with all our resolve and make law and democracy the basis of relations between peoples and peoples. (applause from the centre) i very much welcome the fact that you mentioned russia, mr president-in-office. we need good relations with russia, but we know that the worst human rights violations are currently taking place in chechnya. we say as christian and european democrats that the life of a peaceful muslim in chechnya or anywhere else in the world has the same value as the life of a christian or non-christian in the western world. we must defend human dignity everywhere on this planet. (applause from the centre) you also spoke about the euro. we support what you said. in this hour of joy over the euro - which the president of the commission has described as a gigantic project - let us remember that it was personalities like helmut kohl, the honorary citizen of europe, like françois mitterrand and jacques delors, who then pushed this great project forward with the support of others. i would also like to mention specifically valéry giscard d'estaing, the president of the convention, who, in the 1970s, was a pioneer of the european monetary system with helmut schmidt and others. i congratulate you on your decision. it is now important that we pursue a policy of stability, because things are changing. i remember that before the introduction of the euro, my party friends looked at italy and doubted whether italy should join the monetary community, whether it really pursued a policy of stability. today we are hearing from italy, and i do not want to attribute this to a country, that the countries which criticised italy in the past are now being criticised in the same way for not doing what is necessary to ensure the stability of the european currency. so, the budget is being reset. we must strengthen europe as an economic centre, and that means that we must promote smes in particular through a sensible, moderate tax policy, which we very much support. we need coordination in economic policy, in stability policy, so that we can go down the same path. it is not harmonization, but coordination. mr president-in-office, i very much welcome what you have said about the convention. so if you wish, we are happy to offer our group room - another large group has already done so, so perhaps they can agree - but today the spirit of our group room is particularly suited to working on the europe project. i have a request to make to you, mr president-in-office: we were very pleased to hear that our colleague, jacques santer, former prime minister of luxembourg and former president of the european commission, had been appointed by the luxembourg government, that is to say, by the prime minister of luxembourg, jean-claude juncker, as luxembourg's representative to the convention. (applause from the centre) we ask you to use your influence as president of the council to ensure that all governments send to this convention personalities whose words have weight in the national capitals, in the governments, so that what is decided in the convention also has some binding effect on the national governments in the countries of the european union. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. we are fully on your side on the timing of 2002, namely the conclusion of the first accession treaties. we in our group decided that observers from the countries with which the treaties were signed should be sent to the european parliament as soon as possible. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are very supportive of the mediterranean dialogue. we must ensure that the people of the mediterranean countries, insofar as they are not members of the european union, have a chance, a perspective in their own country - in morocco, in algeria, everywhere, including the arab states - and that not all of them come to us. we must help them to do so, and i very much welcome the initiatives of the spanish presidency. we wish you every success on your journey. we will always welcome you here in parliament. if you succeed, we succeed together, the presidency of the council, parliament, the commission and our common european union! good luck to you personally, but also to your presidency. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission! the spanish presidency is coming at a time when foreign policy is concerned with preventing war between two nuclear powers, with bringing peace to the middle east and with making the barcelona process a success, because if we do not succeed here, these areas can affect our immediate interests in a cruel way. i believe that we can make progress on the priorities you have set, mr president. all this is linked to the fight against terrorism, both internationally and nationally, and, following a speech by one of my predecessors, i would like to say that there is no political justification for terrorism, which must be rejected both within and outside the european union. mr president-in-office of the council, i have observed over the past few months that in the wise preparation of your presidency in foreign policy matters you have not succumbed to the danger of bilateralism, as has been seen in part from berlin, london and paris. i believe that this is due to the recognition that we can only achieve the tasks of combating international and national terrorism and safeguarding peace by a joint effort and not by each individual, and that for this reason we must come to a common foreign and security policy. i'm grateful that you can obviously go in that direction. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the convention will enable you to set the key points for the future internal structure of the european union. we therefore ask for your support so that the convention will have the necessary work opportunities to meet these requirements. the european union is not a single entity, but it is a single institution, and it is not a single institution. we hope to work very closely with you on these issues over the next six months. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president, you have managed to say not a word about the protection of the environment in the six priorities of the spanish presidency. i admit that this is an honest achievement, and a transparent one. i have heard too many times in the last 12 years from council presidents that they announce in their priorities at the beginning of the council presidency what they do not fulfil. they don't even announce it. i think that's very open, very transparent and very clear. i am very grateful to mr salafranca for bringing groucho marx into the debate earlier. i, too, was reminded of groucho marx when i listened to the speech, because i have to admit that i find it more than grotesque. groucho marx is a symbol of the grotesque, and i think it is even more grotesque that the spanish presidency of the council, in the year of the rio+10 summit, in the year of the world summit in johannesburg, has nothing to say about this. mr aznar, it is not for your ministry of the environment to do this, it is for you. i would remind you that the last summit, the summit in gothenburg, asked you, the european council, to review what is still needed at its spring meeting, in barcelona. so you have to say something about emissions trading. you must say when you want to ratify the kyoto protocol. for example, you must say when you intend to implement the sectoral strategies of the sixth environment action programme. this is not a matter for the environmental authorities in your country, but for you. as we always attach great importance to close and good cooperation with the council, i am prepared to offer you, mr aznar, my assistance if your government needs it. i am happy to give you all the suggestions on behalf of my group - with all due respect, of course - that you need to do to fulfil your tasks at the beginning of the year. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr secretary of state, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! since the extraordinary cologne summit in june 1999, the european union has had a european security and defence identity which, for the first time, is truly worthy of the name 'common'. we have made great strides in this area, and with the rapid reaction force which will be ready for action from 2003, we will be able to carry out the so-called petersberg tasks independently, at least on our continent, and in any case with a corresponding un mandate. i would like to add a brief comment to your remarks, mr president-in-office, and a big request to the spanish presidency. first of all, you mentioned the rapid reaction force as a tool against terrorism in the european union. i think that in our democratic countries the fight against terrorism is primarily a matter for the internal order and the judiciary. if military action is ever necessary, as it was after 9/11, the so-called rule of law will still be in place. the request to the spanish presidency: military operations conducted exclusively under the direction of the european union must be able to rely on nato's material resources, especially in the field of transport and intelligence capabilities, and in some cases also in the field of command structures. it is truly astonishing that the necessary agreement between the eu and nato has not yet been reached because of turkey's resistance. the proposal put forward by the united kingdom and the united states at the laeken summit without a mandate from the eu is inadequate and unacceptable. i therefore ask the spanish presidency to ensure that we get an agreement with nato to ensure our security and defence policy. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the speech i am about to give is the last speech i shall give as a member of the committee on economic and monetary affairs in this chamber. i've been on this committee for 22 years. i shall be a member of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy from tomorrow. i am convinced that the next step on the road to european union must be political union. i look forward to working on this task in the future. in the light of the recent events, i would like to begin by remembering our late colleague, mr basil de ferranti, who wrote the first reports on the completion of the internal market and thus gave the impetus to all this development. it started as a working group on technical barriers to trade, which later became the kangaroo group. these were the first steps towards the completion of the internal market. at that time jacques delors was the chairman of the european parliament's committee on economic and monetary affairs, our predecessor, mrs randzio-plath, who, as french finance minister and later as president of the european commission, laid the foundations for the realisation of these ideas. i would also like to mention jacques moreau, who, together with me, presented the first report of the european parliament on the proposals for the creation of the european internal market in 1984. when you see the enthusiasm with which the euro was welcomed on 1 january, this new currency for 300 million people in the european union, you have to remember how difficult this path was on the one hand. on the other hand, we must also ask ourselves what are the conditions for the long-term success of the euro, this common currency? i would like to mention three conditions: the first is a consistent implementation of the stability and growth pact. it is almost ironic that we now realise that it was my country, germany, which fought the hardest for this stability and growth pact and its strict criteria, and that in the present situation it can or must almost be assumed that germany will be the first country to be affected by the sanctions of this treaty. but i believe we must be consistent here if we want the euro to become and remain a stable currency in the long term and if we want to keep interest rates in the european union low for our companies in the long term as a prerequisite for investment and growth. the second condition is that we must pursue economic policy in the member states and the european union on the basis of common principles. these principles should be the principles of the social market economy, as the european parliament, which voted in favour by a large majority, wanted. thirdly, we must move towards political union. we said before maastricht that we wanted both monetary union and political union. we said at the time that without political union, monetary union would not be viable in the long term. we must be consistent here. we must take these steps towards political union now. the european union has a common foreign and defence policy at its core. i would like to conclude by quoting jacques delors. jacques delors has rightly pointed out in these endless debates we have had on the european single market that you cannot fall in love with a single market. so there's very little emotion involved. i would say the same thing about a currency, although there are some of us who have a very emotional, almost erotic relationship with currency. but what we need and what we must uncover is the awareness of the common european identity, of europe. i believe that this is certainly the most important task facing us as a european parliament. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the introduction of euro cash is not only a logistical and organisational success, but is already contributing to a better european identity and identity-building. the european parliament has a duty to act. (applause from the centre) with the euro at hand, europe will become a reality of everyday life, as we members of parliament have always said. the euro was the first election of the european parliament since its direct election, and especially of the economic and monetary affairs committee. the euro has been one of the european parliament's success stories for two decades. we have stood for a single market and a single currency and have helped to shape it. i think that all the members in this house should be thanked, and you too, mr von wogau. (applause from the centre) i believe that the euro will be the positive word of the year 2002. finally, the euro embodies europe's dynamism and determination to create a european identity, to improve european competitiveness for the benefit of the economy and employment, and to grow together in an unprecedented community of solidarity. monetary union completes the internal market - the right answer to the challenges of globalisation - and makes it available to everyone - to small and mediumsized enterprises and, above all, to people. the euro will succeed because it is accepted not only by the markets but also by the people. finally, many people are happy to live in the euro area - and we as members of parliament have always predicted this. the success of the introduction of the euro cash is inspiring everyone and creating the climate of optimism that we urgently need in europe for investment, a boost to domestic demand and thus also for employment. this introduction is the crowning achievement of the sustained efforts towards monetary union. many people are already asking why the introduction of euro cash was not done much earlier, as we as members of parliament have always called for. denmark, sweden and the united kingdom are invited to join the euro area before the eastward enlargement in their own interests. the d-mark was a currency with a proud past. three years of monetary union promise us an equally stable monetary future. in any case, inflation rates in the monetary union have been lower than in the previous decades of the german mark. this is linked to the low level of interest rates, which ensure good, investment-friendly financing conditions. monetary union has therefore fulfilled the political promise of the maastricht treaty: price stability. the introduction of euro cash will also bring tangible benefits for consumers: prices for durable consumer goods such as cars will fall. the euro will finally enable consumer-friendly competition to be achieved in the completion of the internal market programme. this will lead to a medium-term pressure on prices and an incentive to improve quality. the development of economic and monetary union, the internal reform of the european union and a european constitution, and the success of eu enlargement to the east are the major challenges facing europe. but we must not forget that the euro is not just a monetary project, it has always been a political project and is part of the political union of europe. europe is small on the globe, and therefore the single market completed by monetary union is certainly the right answer. the euro also demonstrates the ability of europeans to organise their community in the interests of all the countries of europe. it is both a link and a stepping stone for other bold european projects. william shakespeare rightly said: "where money is concerned, all roads are open". i hope that this will also apply to more efficient and better coordinated economic, financial, employment and social policies. the euro urgently needs a flank by some kind of economic government. economic developments are no longer shaped by nation states but by economic issues. the eu summit in barcelona is therefore called upon to replace the dogma of the stability and growth pact, which leaves room for manoeuvre, with a sound policy based on monetary, financial and social stability. the european parliament's commitment to the monetary dialogue with the european central bank was particularly important. we in parliament have stood for the independence of the european central bank, but we have also stood for democratic accountability of this institution. it is therefore very important that we have organized and moved a cultural revolution in europe, because in the past the member states' dealings with the national central banks did not have this democratic accountability that we have today. this makes monetary policy transparent and understandable and helps us to unravel this mystery as well. monetary policy is not neutral, but it also has an impact on the real economy, on growth and employment.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them up in the near future. mr zappalà has just indicated that 14 to 15% - at least that is the commission's estimate - of the union's gross domestic product is accounted for by public works contracts, supply contracts and service contracts, and by companies providing services to the general public. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is no small sum indeed. but it is precisely in this area of public procurement that the internal market has not yet been particularly successful. we must bring about a change. crossborder procurement is still the exception. the rules are complicated, fragmented, rigid, tedious, bureaucratic and the integration of social and environmental concerns into procurement practice is not yet clear. these are at least the demands which parliament itself made in its debates on the green paper and on the commission's communication in 1996 and 1998. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the aim is therefore to help the single market to make a breakthrough in this area. clear, transparent rules are needed that do not discriminate against any bidder for these contracts. but on the other hand, it must also be ensured that no bidder can take unjustified advantage. it is therefore necessary to clarify that labour, collective and environmental requirements are also respected. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. that is part of the common rules of the game, and it must be respected.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission is not i too would like to say a few words about the question of whether economic legislation is virtually neutral and can be separated from other aspects. we have an example in the area of the so-called sectoral directive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. if we say that the directive applies to local authorities' own businesses but not to outsourced businesses, then we have suddenly subjected businesses with the same purpose to completely different legal regulations and we have no neutral effects. the committee on industry, trade, research and energy, which is not known for taking social or environmental concerns into account, has therefore agreed, by a majority of its members, to include these aspects in its proposals. i would like to make a few points clear here, because we have not only discussed but have incorporated into the proposal before us substantial results of the committee on industry, as well as the committee on employment and social affairs, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection and the committee on economic and monetary affairs. our most important proposal is that, in addition to labour and social legislation, the collective agreements between employers and trade unions - as our proposal also says - should be respected at the place of implementation. in order to avoid any misunderstanding, i believe that the committee on industry could also agree with the wording 'general collective agreements', especially since the proposal of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market opens up the possibility of other misunderstandings. but in any case, we should make one thing clear, and i say this with regard to the member state from which i come: it cannot be that there are parts of the political spectrum that are raising fears about the labour market because of the forthcoming enlargement to the east, while we are in the process of opening the doors in parts of this house, so that the fears may be justified. we shouldn't let that be said about us. i also welcome the fact that the legal affairs committee has accepted our request that companies may be excluded from tendering procedures if they do not comply with the collective agreements and other labour and social legislation in the country of establishment or in another country concerned. we have included in the sectoral directive, in the proposal under discussion today, two important points which are relevant for example to municipal companies, where we have said that associated or joint undertakings with at least 50% of average turnover are excluded from the scope of the directive. we shall also find that in the motion. or that the supply of energy and fuels should be excluded from the scope of this directive. this will maintain the status quo as we have it now, even against the background of the different levels of liberalisation in the european union, and it will avoid the effect i described at the beginning, that of treating municipal owned enterprises and outsourced enterprises differently. we are also in favour of the inclusion of postal services in this directive. this does not apply to all types of postal services, however, but only to those for which there is no free competition yet. if my remarks on tariffs are included in the final vote and if these points, which i have continued to make, are taken into account, then i think the committee on industry will be very pleased with the result.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we are very much of the opinion that environmental policy and social policy should be regulated by environmental and social law. but there are exceptions to every principle. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so it is quite clear to us that social and environmental aspects are also involved in this decision. however, we make a very clear distinction. we believe that the european single market should provide equal conditions for all those who participate economically in it. the keyword 'level playing field' was mentioned by one of the speakers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for this reason, the epp group has always taken the view in the debate that, in so far as such criteria are taken into account, we should have placed this request in the area of the tendering conditions and not later on in the question of the award of the contract. i would therefore like to make it clear that article 53, which has been mentioned repeatedly and which has actually been one of the points of contention, one of the main points of discussion in this debate, relates to the contract. that is why the epp group will be restrictive in its vote on the amendments to rule 53. we want as few amendments as possible to article 53 as proposed by the commission. it is only in this way that we can ensure that we do not end up with manipulative options, but that the contracting authorities who organise tenders are still able to make decisions, so to speak, on the basis of criteria which are only introduced into the debate afterwards, and which have a completely different background from the ones we are discussing here and which are based on objective criteria. i believe that this is a very important difference which must also be worked out in the debate in the legal affairs committee and which has perhaps not yet been fully clarified in the groups. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for example, if in my country, germany, there is a discussion at the moment about a so-called law on collective bargaining, which actually leads to the fact that - and i share mr kuhne's view - the general binding collective agreements are not made the basis of a tender - they are like laws that must be adhered to - but can become regional conditions, including domestic collective agreements, then this leads to the fact that a tender can be designed in such a way that in the end only one company can participate in the tender. that is what the single market is all about. that is nonsense, and we are not prepared to take part in that. that is why we shall vote against where such doors are opened by amendments. i am very much of the opinion that what mr kuhne has proposed for the committee on industry, namely to limit it to the generally binding ones, is something that can certainly have my support or that of my group. the commission has not yet taken a final decision on the thresholds. we shall do so tomorrow in the group meeting before the vote, because we have different views on this. i would like to point out, however, that there is a rather interesting proposal by mr zappalà, in the form of a compromise - that is amendment no 147 - to ensure that, if a decision is taken to increase the thresholds, the basic principles of this directive also apply to all contracts below that threshold. it is a matter of course, but the proposal contains a major innovation. i think that would be a real step forward for the internal market, namely the fairness of what is being done here and the fairness of the tendering procedure. this is not guaranteed in all member states below the threshold today. if this were possible, i think it would be a real step forward. i would ask the commission in particular to reconsider its position on this amendment no 147 and to inform parliament tomorrow whether it could give its consent to this proposal, because i think that this could be a real compromise on the question of thresholds. i would like to conclude by thanking the rapporteurs, led by mr zappalà. this is one of the most difficult pieces of legislation in this house, and you have led us through these abysses very well so far. i want to thank you for that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i want to congratulate you on your election. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. many laws are like our favorite clothes. if we do not care for them, they quickly become unsightly and eventually useless. they're no longer serving their purpose. it is therefore good that the commission has taken up the public procurement law of the 1970s and that we are now in the process of adopting two directives to meet the needs of the internal market and the present time. a great deal has already been said about the modernisation of the procurement directives; i don't need to add anything to that. i would like to warn you explicitly that we are improving the law on public procurement in terms of technology and making it more practical, but at the same time we are making it worse in substance. that is what the commission's proposal seeks to achieve. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internal market is properly functioning. the legitimate wishes and interests of the people are being neglected. we cannot allow this to happen in this parliament. we are not bound by any mechanisms or economic ideologies. we are committed to the needs of the citizens of europe and we must also ensure that their taxpayers' money is not squandered. a well-functioning internal market will help us to do this if it respects people-oriented standards. therefore, public contracts cannot simply be awarded to the lowest bidder. social requirements must be as crucial as the consideration of human health and the careful handling of the environment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. for example, it is quite natural that contractors must comply with regulations on safety and working conditions and all collective and individual obligations under labour law. this includes compliance with the collective agreements in force at the place of the contract. otherwise we will easily fall into a spiral of discrimination and wage dumping at the expense of many working families. this is not the way competition should be in the internal market. this competition must not be carried out at the expense of the environment. it is therefore clear that public contracting authorities must require compliance with high environmental standards. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the public procurement market is not affected by the introduction of new barriers to trade. i personally have no problem with a double. higher thresholds prevent unjustified administrative burdens on smaller projects. they provide greater flexibility in the planning and execution of manageable projects and contribute to the economical use of taxpayers' money. the citizens will be grateful if we do not force their mayors to throw the money out the window with both hands. i would like to apologize to mr zappalà and to the commissioner for not being able to stay until the end because a group of visitors has been waiting for me since 4 p.m. and i should like to go to them, because i would have liked to hear the commissioner's answer.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work on this subject, and i would like to pay tribute to him for his energy, discipline and intelligence. i have the greatest admiration for him because he has not lost his roman cheerfulness, despite a process that is sometimes very difficult. i would like to thank my colleagues for this, and i think it was one of the most interesting debates in the legal affairs committee so far. the debate here has also shown that the views on thresholds and social standards are shared by all the groups, and we shall be looking forward to the vote tomorrow with great anticipation. i believe that the new directives must be progressive, fair and functional. we support the modernisation proposed by the commission, for example the introduction of electronic auctions and electronic tendering fees. i am very concerned, however, that the directive is not becoming fairer on one particular point. i refer to the question of social and environmental standards. i would like to say once again, and i would like to say this for the other members of my group, that we are not concerned with the fact that social and environmental criteria do not play any role in the award procedure. i'm not going to. mr hager has made that very clear. these standards must be specified in the product description. we want to avoid that, at the end of the tendering procedure, when the offers have been compared and it is found that offer 1 is the most economically advantageous, offer 2 is worse, offer 3 is even worse, offer 4 is the worst, a new assessment is opened to determine whether this company is more social because it has hired more disabled people, this other company is more ecological because it has a waste management system, and then, instead of finding the most economically advantageous offer, award the contract to the more expensive company. this is the situation we want to avoid, because it would be contrary to the internal market. that is why this is such an important point for us, and we would not need this directive with such standards at all.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, and madam commissioner! i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs myller, and also the shadow rapporteurs, in particular the shadow rapporteur of our group, for their work on this report. i believe that neither the commission's proposal nor the report presented by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection is worthless. that is why i do not quite understand the proposal of the liberals and the greens to reject the whole proposal, the whole common position. i do not understand him because, if i understand this correctly, the environment ministers in the member states of the european union are not only appointed by christian democrats, but primarily by the greens, but also by liberal social democrats and members of our party family. the council has put forward a proposal, and we certainly have a lot to criticize and to improve, but it is also a little difficult to say that it is all nonsense in the light of the political situation. we must nevertheless improve the council's proposal, but we must not reject it altogether. i would particularly like to see a strict wording on environmentally harmful subsidies. the council's wording is too weak for me. i think that whenever it is said that environmental protection costs money, then first of all we must realize that of course environmental destruction and the consequences of environmental destruction also cost money, but that it is even worse when you spend subsidies, that is, money, on environmental destruction. it's a very effective way to save money. that is why i strongly support the idea of cutting subsidies. now the committee has decided on the 2005 date. many people - not just in our group - have problems with this. that is why there are various proposals for compromise. i think that we must in any case adopt an amendment which is more stringent than what the council has decided. we should not abandon other economic instruments, such as environmental tax reform, but pursue them further, including at european level.
- the next item is the report (a5-0419/2001) by mrs garcía-orcoyen tormo, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the commission green paper on integrated product policy (com (2001) 68 - c5-0259/2001/2117 (cos)).
the commission has already done so. we make products, and what do we do with a product at the end of its life cycle? the green paper is intended to answer this question from an ecological point of view. i think we have not yet answered the question adequately. the consequences are well known: significant environmental impact in the production and use of products, which also involves health impacts on workers and consumers. we should not continue this policy any longer but should seriously consider an integrated policy. we can save money and not have to repair the damage to the environment. for these reasons too, we need a strategy to develop more environmentally friendly products and services. the present report, together with the proposals adopted in the committee, provides a good framework for an environmentally-oriented product policy. however, the commission proposal did not help much in the discussion process in the committee. the statements made in this paper were vague, there were no structures for further action and i could not see a coordinated process of discussion. i believe that no businessman or consumer can be won over by a collection of proposals for an environmentally friendly product. the commission must ensure that the statements are made more clearly in its future work. the important thing for my group is that the total environmental costs are included in the price of the product. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. the european product standardisation needs to be more closely involved, but services should also be provided from an environmental perspective. another option for creating a market for environmentally friendly products is, for example, the use of economic steering instruments. we should examine their use and impact and, most importantly, we should ensure that eu environmental legislation is not relaxed. the rapporteur has done a good job in the face of the unsatisfactory commission proposal. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. we urgently need concrete proposals for the promotion of environmentally friendly products. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment. the present report is a start, the concrete work on content has yet to be done.
commission. – mr president, i would like to thank parliament for its resolution on the commission's green paper and just remind you that it is a green paper, the start of the debate on integrated product policy. in particular i would like to thank mrs garcía-orcoyen tormo being such a committed rapporteur on this challenging and difficult issue. i would also like to thank you for your speeches. i would agree with a lot of what has been said during this short debate. in reducing the environmental impact of products throughout their life cycle, the objective of ipp is fundamental to addressing our environmental problems. for this reason ipp is a key measure within the sixth environment action programme and the sustainable development strategy also underlines its importance. the difficulty we face is that there are so many products on the market today, products that often have long supply chains involving many different actors. because of this it is impossible to develop a "one size fits all" instrument. instead we need a variety of instruments and exactly which ones depends on what is most effective at each point in the supply chain. they can be both voluntary and mandatory. i agree that voluntary measures should be complementary and we should make sure that they are not the only instrument used. when thinking about ipp at european level, we should also recognise the experience gained in several member states – denmark, germany, sweden and italy, to name but a few- over the last few years. there is, therefore, widespread acceptance of the concept and interest in it. in 1999 the informal environment council asked the commission to come forward with a green paper on the issue. i therefore delivered this paper to start the debate on what form the european ipp should take. the reactions to it from the 130 stakeholders who submitted comments were generally positive, but what came back was what has been reflected here, namely that it is sometimes seen as being too fluffy and not really an understandable concept. but it sounds nice, as they say, and in general the opinions of the council, the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions were favourable as well. the green paper suggested a strategy and tools for making a european ipp a reality. many such tools already exist – public procurement legislation, european eco-labels and emas, to name but a few. in other areas we will have to be innovative and think of new instruments. the green paper sought to canvas the views of stakeholders on the way forward. the commission did this not just because it wanted to develop the best possible policy, but also because ipp needs the active involvement of all stakeholders to succeed. your resolution concludes this stakeholder consultation process and will enable us to develop the white paper. from your resolution and the comments from stakeholders it is clear that the white paper needs to start with concrete environmental problems. this is what we have learnt from this discussion. issues such as climate change, hazardous chemicals and biodiversity affect us all. if we take environmental problems rather than instruments as our point of departure, we can better convey the idea that ipp is more than just a collection of tools, something that we perhaps did not do sufficiently in the green paper. we have to link it to concrete environmental problems to describe how to use these instruments. this is also what mrs paulsen referred to. these tools will still be important. we need to continue developing them because we cannot address millions of products individually. however, i too am coming to the conclusion that we need to focus our actions on particular products and sectors. you rightly make this suggestion in paragraphs 24 and 25 of your resolution. we will also need to set out the strategy for implementing ipp and its advantages and the commission will need to consider carefully the measures within ipp's scope as well as how it relates to other policies. it is my intention to ask the commission to adopt this paper during the second quarter of this year.
- thank you very much, commissioner wallström. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0451/2001) by mr alyssandrakis, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the communication from the commission to the council (com (2000) 597 - c5-0146/2001/2072 (cos)) and the european parliament entitled 'europe and space: opening a new chapter'.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank my colleague, mr alyssandrakis, for his excellent cooperation. we have had the ambitious aim in europe since lisbon of becoming the number one in the world, and this of course includes technology and science, although i am not thinking primarily of the electronic voting system we examined here yesterday, but of more advanced technologies such as telecommunications, earth observation and environmental protection. europe must - and the past proves this - pool its strength in these areas. airbus and ariane, based in toulouse, are flagship projects which prove that europe can compete globally if it joins forces. the european union, esa and the member states must also create european structures to enable more uniform and effective cooperation. but international cooperation beyond europe should also be considered. i am not just thinking of the united states, i am also thinking of russia and china. the european research policy should of course be designed in such a way that it is also attractive to young researchers in this field. i myself come from the aerospace industry and i have noticed that fewer and fewer young people have studied these subjects in recent years. we should take this into our own hands and not rely on immigration as in other areas. we also need clear objectives. the commission has therefore urged the member states to give a clear vote in favour of galileo. industry should also play a leading role in this. it is important in the future that not only government entities take responsibility, but also industry contributes to the development of services that the citizen can use and that are also marketable. i would like to conclude by referring to an important point that has been raised, namely the so-called militarization of space. i do not think that europe should develop an sdi, a star wars. but i think it is very questionable whether military use is equivalent to that. we are not talking about the militarization of telecommunications just because the bundeswehr uses the telephone. we want a european foreign and security policy, we want a rapid reaction force, we send troops to other countries and these troops must be given the information they need. we should therefore be thinking very carefully at european level about becoming independent here, about being able to use our own infrastructure in the future, so that we can live up to our responsibility for our own soldiers and our political responsibility in this area. i therefore ask that the amendment tabled by mr giles chichester and myself be accepted. we cannot really speak of sdi here, but rather of the sensible use of infrastructure for european interests.
the commission has already done so. and yet it moves. this statement by galileo galilei can also be applied to the current situation in european space policy. i have already had my doubts when i look at the seemingly endless debate on the creation of the european satellite navigation system galileo. i am all the more pleased that there are some positive approaches to give new impetus to european space travel. it is urgently needed, otherwise europe will lose its connection with this important and forward-looking segment of high technology. whether we are dealing with communications, navigation or surveillance systems, satellites play a crucial role. we should not make the mistake of taking advantage of the existing systems of other nations, including friendly ones. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am speaking from my own experience as a rapporteur for the european parliament on the european satellite navigation system. we have such valuable potential in europe in this area that we should not just leave it lying idle. "take" must be the motto. a political signal is essential for this. the first step in this process is the development of a coherent space policy strategy. the commission has done a very good job here. i strongly support the proposed lines of action. europe must give greater importance to its space programme in the future. let me sum up my priority for european space with a perhaps paradoxical pair of words: independence and cooperation. independence means own strength, autonomous structures, future-oriented jobs. cooperation, on the other hand, stands for compatibility and exchange to strengthen eu relations. space travel was about to get a new lease on life.
commission. - mr president, first of all i should like to congratulate you on your reappointment. i would first of all like to congratulate mr alyssandrakis and thank him for his clear and constructive report, and also thank all the members of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy and the members of the various committees who have taken part in this debate and have been associated with the report. it is a pleasure for me today to be able to speak in this debate on behalf of the commission, instead of my colleague mr busquin, with whom we work closely on the whole question of space, especially given the responsibilities i have in this area through the galileo project. the report you are debating today is an important milestone on the road to european space policy, which the community institutions have recently been building up. it is a political support for the work of the commission and the european space agency in their joint working group, which is fully in line with the recommendations of the motion for a resolution. this is a very important effort which my colleague, mr busquin, is making, and which i believe is in line with what europe needs to be in order to be the most internationally competitive knowledge-based society by 2010. my speech will deal with three points. the first is the spirit of european space policy, which is part of the vision of a europe that fully exploits the potential of the knowledge economy, especially by creating a genuine european research area, in accordance with the spirit of the lisbon conclusions, which must also be that of barcelona. a europe determined to promote sustainable development, which, after gothenburg, is one of the union's priorities. a europe that is keen to involve citizens more in the decision-making process, thus setting a practical example of governance. it is precisely here that parliament's role is absolutely crucial, especially in explaining technical questions, such as the question of space. the european union has a long history of being a major player in the world economy, and it is not just the united states that has been a major player in the world economy, but also the world economy. i would like to stress here - in response to some of the concerns raised by the rapporteur - the resolute peace instrument nature of the gmes initiative (global monitoring for environment and security) in the field of environmental and security monitoring. the second aspect is the recent progress in this field, since significant progress has been made in the field of space policy over the past year through the communication you are considering today and the attached council resolution. the policy of the european union has taken stock of the strategic dimension of space activities for europe. as regards concrete progress, i would mention two key steps: the first, the creation of the joint working group of the commission and the space agency, which has given rise to a second communication. the report was presented to the council of the union and the space agency and to parliament at the end of 2001. the second is the joint preparation of a strategy for implementing the gmes initiative. in this context, an action plan has been prepared at first union level and then at the european space agency level, with a complementary part being approved during the agency's council of ministers. but 2001 also showed us some limits, for example the lack of results at the last transport council on the galileo project. i am deeply sorry that these delays are taking place and i want to say again, very clearly, that in my view there are no economic justifications that can call into question the viability of the project, but what there are, in the end, are doubts about the political will to carry out a project with the ambition of the galileo project. i hope that these doubts can be resolved in the coming weeks and that in march we will have a positive decision, once and for all, from the union. the third aspect is the question of the future: what is left to do? a lot. for europe to play its role, close consultation between all the parties concerned must be established, in particular more operational collaboration between the commission and the european space agency. in the short term, the aim is to negotiate a framework agreement between these two institutions formalising their collaboration and conferring on the agency the role of implementing body for the union's space programmes. an informal space council, bringing together the research council and the european space agency council, will have to be organised later. in the medium term, it is proposed that space policy be decided by the councils of the union and the european space agency, as well as by the european parliament, on the basis of guidelines given by the heads of state or government. but in the longer term, and precisely in the context of the debate which will shortly be launched on the future of the union, the european space agency, and in particular space policy, should be reflected even in the treaty itself. before concluding, i would like to make a few comments on a number of recommendations in mr alyssandrakis' report. specifically, the question of frequencies. a european coordination mechanism is being set up in this field in the form of a working group involving national regulatory authorities. another issue is the full convergence between the report of the task force of the think tank and the view of parliament, as regards the need to study carefully the situation of competition on a global scale and to take appropriate measures, especially for launchers. we also look forward to the idea of organizing an international conference to explore the possibilities of cooperation. as mr alyssandrakis knows, close cooperation with russia is already being maintained. finally, in general terms, the sixth framework programme should make possible progress in the direction indicated in several recommendations, because the subject of space is for the first time one of the priorities of the framework programme, but also because the european space agency will for the first time have the possibility of participating fully as a partner in it. the report you are about to adopt, ladies and gentlemen, represents a substantial and strong incentive to the efforts being made to implement a genuine european space policy. the success of such an undertaking requires the mobilization of all those concerned and the resolute support of all members. i would like to say - and i agree with what has been said by some speakers, such as mr savary and mr caudron - that we cannot paralyse the necessary capacity and presence of the european union in space technologies on the pretext that certain types of projects can be dual-use projects. it is clearly stated that gmes has a peace objective, that it is not an initiative based on budgets, funding and military uses, but on the contrary. the same can be said of the galileo project. it is not simply by avoiding our presence in the space race for peace that we will avoid - if that space is partly militarized - that this is the case. we must have the firm will to be in that space in accordance with the criteria of the european union: to be a space for peace worldwide.
- thank you very much, commissioner palacio. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the joint debate on the following reports: - a5-0437/2001 by mr hatzidakis, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 96/53/ec laying down for certain road vehicles circulating within the community the maximum authorized dimensions in national and international traffic and the maximum authorized weights in international traffic (9068/1/2001 - c5-0433/2001 - 2000/0060 (cod)) - a5-0469/2001 by mr van dam, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulations (eec) no 881/92 and (eec) no 3118/93 with a view to introducing a driver attestation [10353/1/2001 - c5-0473/2001 - 2000/0297 (cod) ]; - a5-0430/2001 by mr grosch, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the training of professional drivers of goods or passengers by road (com (2001) 56 - c5-0037/2001 - 2001/0033 (cod)).
the commission has already done so. every day we read in the newspapers reports of serious accidents on europe's roads caused by trucks with overtired, overworked and inexperienced drivers. who doesn't shake their heads and wonder how such a thing is possible on our streets at the beginning of the 21st century? there is no doubt that the quality standard of road transport in the eu can and must be improved. the profession of driver, with its ever-increasing demands, must be strengthened and made more attractive. road safety must also be improved. it will have to be seen whether the option proposed by the commission can really improve the situation. in my view, this directive does not really bring about any significant added value. training is generally welcome and beneficial to the profession. but the driving test already requires every motorist to prove more than just a thorough knowledge of the rules of the road. we say at home, double is better than double. but there is no compelling logic in the directive, which, in my view, unnecessarily requires a large number of elements in two places. a crucial example: in germany there is already a real training course for professional drivers, which lasts three years. in comparison, the time requirements mentioned in the title of the directive, which the council has reduced, can only be consistently described as basic vocational training. that's all you can do in a 140-hour period. i was talking about value. but if i look at the regulations in detail, i see that they have deteriorated in some places. because an 18-year-old could now move a 40-ton truck of dangerous goods across the alpine passes after only a few hours of basic training! that can't be in the inventor's best interest. we need to strengthen the motoring profession. the directive is suitable for this. but road safety needs to be improved. maybe everything would be a lot better if we finally had a new tachograph.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road. as regards the maximum authorized dimensions in national and international traffic and the maximum authorized weights in international traffic, i would like to congratulate mr hatzidakis on his excellent work as rapporteur and on his efforts to achieve agreement throughout this procedure. i am pleased that the report's conclusion strikes a reasonable balance between internal market, regulation and safety, without forgetting technical and commercial considerations. in fact, this was the commission's intention when it put forward the initiative and i therefore thank parliament for adopting the common position, which the commission fully endorses without amendments since it incorporates, in practical terms, all the amendments adopted by parliament at first reading and introduces other slight modifications to the commission's initial proposal. after thanking mr hatzidakis for his work, i would like to thank mr van dam for his work and to confirm to him directly that the commission intends to draw up an evaluation report within three years of the entry into force of the regulation. i hope that this will enable parliament to vote on the basis of the council's common position and to conclude the matter, which will enable us to undertake an effective fight for employment and to regulate the situation of third country nationals drivers by community transport undertakings. finally, i would like to refer to the training of professional drivers of goods or road passengers. i would like to thank mr grosch for the last report on road transport which we are discussing today and to note that the report and its explanatory statement show that the european parliament shares the view of the european commission on the importance of this proposal, even if it is a technical one. the proposed measures make it possible to introduce a complete package of training and qualification for bus and lorry drivers by setting minimum requirements. mr langenhagen, there is no obligation to reduce the number of vocational training courses in any one country, but there are minimum requirements which must be respected in all countries. the three-year requirement currently in force in germany should therefore not be changed. on the contrary, they go beyond the minimum required by this directive. what is needed is for all german drivers, not just a small percentage - as is the case today - to undergo and acquire this training. the objectives are to raise the quality of professional drivers, the standards of road transport in general and to ensure positive road safety outcomes. in general, we can accept most of the amendments, with some modifications in some cases, but there are some which we must nevertheless reject. for example, from 25 to 41, since that would mean leaving this initiative entirely in the hands of the states. it should be remembered that only 5% of bus and lorry drivers in the community currently receive vocational training. only five percent. this proposal is therefore essential to improve this situation and only community legislation making it compulsory can achieve this objective which, apart from reducing safety, is a clear distortion of competition. in particular, as regards amendment no 37, however, we will incorporate some of mr bradbourn's concerns into the commission's amended proposal, in order to leave more room for the principle of subsidiarity, as we believe that he is right on some of the points he raises. even if the commission could accept the principle of parallel training for the purpose of obtaining a driving licence and professional competence, it would prefer to avoid any duplication, and that is why amendments nos 6, 16, 17 and 18 cannot be accepted. nor does amendment no 5, because it may cause difficulties in the sector, which is currently suffering from serious problems of shortage of drivers, by imposing initial training on drivers who are already in the profession and who do not have three years of experience. however, in a spirit of compromise we could accept amendment no 27. as regards amendment no 10, which concerns the inclusion of a few hours of training in the working day, the commission considers that this is a matter for the social partners to decide and therefore cannot be accepted. the commission has problems with amendment no 13, which concerns the place where training should be provided. we believe that a certain degree of flexibility could be introduced in the short-term continuing training, and that it should be possible to carry it out both in the country of habitual residence and in the country where the driver is employed, but not in other areas, since there are similar provisions accepted with regard to driving licences and driver cards. as regards amendment no 19, an international transport option is introduced which is mainly focused on language skills. that is not the purpose of this proposal and therefore we cannot accept it and we reject it. the commission also does not support amendments nos 2, 22 and 23, as they go beyond the scope of this directive. finally, we believe that amendments nos 42, 44 and 45, which regulate the duration of training in the articles, rather than in the annex, cannot be accepted either. i would like to conclude, mr president, by thanking the three rapporteurs for the work they have done. i also thank parliament for the fact that two of the proposals, namely the proposal on maximum authorized dimensions in national and international traffic and maximum authorized weights, and the uniform driver's certificate, are expected to be approved and can be completed shortly, so that their implementation can begin as soon as possible. i hope that in the course of the future we will be able to reach agreement on the training of professional drivers of goods or passengers, which we consider to be also a very important aspect in order to improve road safety and avoid distortions on the markets, particularly on the transport market within the european union, because, as i have said, many of the amendments proposed will be accepted and some of those which mention the desirability of leaving greater margins for subsidiarity will be incorporated into the amended proposal which we will present at the appropriate time.
- thank you very much, commissioner palacio! the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the recommendation (a5-0412/2001) by mr rod, on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the partnership agreement between the african, caribbean and pacific states, of the one part, and the european community and its member states, of the other part [2117/2000 - com (2000) 324 - c5-0417/2000 - 2000/0124 (avc) ].
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is not left in the lurch. the limited speaking time does not allow for a full assessment of the agreement, and i must therefore confine myself to a few aspects. the cotonou agreement represents the continuation of european cooperation with the developing countries of africa, the caribbean and the pacific. it began with the yaoundé agreement and has been extended since 1975 by a total of four lomé conventions. the first lomé convention was signed by 46 acp countries and nine member states of what was then the european community. the cotonou agreement now links 77 acp countries and 15 eu countries. the broadest content base is more important than the geographical extension. the breakdown of the blocs and the political upheavals which followed throughout the world, including the acp states, gave greater importance to the political and commercial dimensions. respect for human rights and the application of democratic principles, the rule of law, good governance and the strengthening of civil society are important treaty provisions, the violation of which may be subject to sanctions. the political dialogue enshrined in the cotonou agreement and the commitment to peacebuilding, conflict prevention and resolution, and the fight against poverty as a stated objective, are important instruments of acp cooperation, but unfortunately they are no guarantee of success. the keywords may suffice: sudan, the horn of africa, the congo, zimbabwe, islamism and hiv/aids. parliamentary monitoring of acp cooperation is a world model. it has been upgraded by the cotonou agreement. this strengthens its role as an open forum for discussion and control, in addition to its parliamentary character. this is also part of the new quality of the cotonou agreement, and this also makes it easy for us as a group to agree to this agreement. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, commissioner nielson, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the new agreement on cooperation and development, the cotonou agreement, provides a much improved framework for cooperation with the acp states. we strongly support this agreement. the commission has also proposed a number of amendments to the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. we therefore do not share the rapporteur's very critical assessment and reasoning. we actually think this is a pretty rough sketch. let me make three very positive points against the rapporteur's analysis. firstly, the establishment of a parliamentary assembly is a real step forward. the acp side, therefore, after a reasonable period of inactivity, will only be able to play a role as freely elected parliamentarians and no longer as ambassadors, as is the case in some cases. the new rules of procedure of our joint assembly must not only lay down this principle but also put it into practice. we will vote against the admission of any acp ambassador who, for example, supplants freely elected african representatives. the second point is a regional approach to cooperation. it puts an end to economic small-scale statecraft in africa and is also based on proposals from the european parliament. regional free trade and cooperation agreements must be the focus of our cooperation in the future. we urge that our regional parliamentary cooperation on the ground should begin this year, for example with southern africa following our meeting in cape town in march, or with the west african economic community later in the year. thirdly, we support the strengthening of the democracy and human rights clause. we think it is important to implement them quickly. i will give you an example of nigeria, togo, zimbabwe. we hope that this will lead to a genuine parliamentary partnership with our african and other acp parliamentarians.
commission. – mr president, allow me first to congratulate members of parliament on having taken this important step in the process of approval of the cotonou agreement. you all know how important it is to complete the ratification process in order to be able to implement the agreement fully, including its financial component. you also know how important the acp-ec relationship is in the framework of the community’s development policy. one very important aspect is that the text of the cotonou agreement is a negotiated text. this is also indirectly reflected in the comments from many in this debate about the fact that having the agreement is quite an achievement. the way we obtained it was through real negotiations. this is what mr howitt pointed out in presenting this as a model for a more global relationship between north and south. there are many deficiencies in it and much of the criticism comes from the fact that it is still very ambitious and it is difficult to implement. this has to do with the expectations we have as to what our partner countries actually put into the programming process. this is not for us alone to decide, which is partly my response to mr howitt's comments. i shall now make some brief comments on the report as such. i find the report’s approach towards the trade dimension of cotonou interesting, although i cannot agree with all of it. certainly, the report’s evaluation of the economic and trade regime under cotonou is based on a political view of development and north-south relations. for example, we do not agree with the report that the cotonou agreement is in favour of "development only through market laws". in our view, the cotonou agreement provides a comprehensive framework, integrating trade as one instrument among others to promote sustainable development. the core element of future trade relations will be the economic partnership agreements which aim to create favourable conditions to enhance both the volume and the benefits of trade. it is true, negotiations of regional economic partnership agreements will aim at the progressive and flexible liberalisation of trade flows and at the integration of acp countries into the world economy. but this will be in line with their level of development and will take into account the socio-economic impact of trade measures. repas will be based on regional integration, strengthening and deepening the existing regional integration initiatives. this is also why i do not share the view expressed by mr belder that these initiatives could be some sort of risk, in relation to conflict prevention. we clearly have the expectation that this regional cooperation will be part of conflict prevention and strengthen it. this is what experience tells us. repas will also be linked to comprehensive economic and social measures which can be financed through the edf. this is not sufficiently reflected in the report. some statements in the report could, in our view, be more precise. for example, the reference to eu beef exports to western africa is highly critical of substituting local beef by subsidised eu beef. however, this argument is based on eu exports from 1981 to 1991. we are now in 2002 and the community’s export policy to developing countries has changed in recent years. in particular, since the early 1990s we have considerably reduced the export refunds for beef exports to western africa, precisely to avoid any substitution of local beef by subsidised eu beef. as a consequence, there has been a progressive decrease of eu beef exports to ecowas countries from a level of 54 000 tonnes in 1991 to only 1600 tonnes in 2000. this is a classical case. we have had a number of them in the debate about coherence. most of these cases are historical cases and they have all been solved. but there are other very real, meaningful important problems to discuss within the framework of the debate on coherence, so i would strongly advise everybody in this debate to put the finger on the real problems instead of providing only archaeological material. there is also a certain confusion in the report when it comes to trade relations with ldcs. it is stated that ldcs would automatically opt for the everything but arms regime, whereas non-ldcs had the choice between economic partnership agreements and the normal gsp regime. this is not the case. on the contrary, it is important to stress that ldcs will be part of the regional economic partnership agreements process. repas will tackle all barriers to trade, including issues such as sanitary and phytosanitary measures or technical barriers to trade and will build on the existing regional integration initiatives. both are highly relevant for ldcs. finally, let me emphasise that repas need to be integrated into the development strategies of the acp and the ec. it will therefore be essential that negotiations on the repas and implementation on the one hand, development policies on the other, are mutually supportive and that appropriate eu support measures are included in regular edf financing. repas will set a trade policy framework which will need to be fully coherent with development policies. it is true that the objectives of the cotonou trade agenda are ambitious but doing nothing and continuing with our past approach would incur major risks and would probably not reverse the economic marginalisation of acp countries. when we look at what has happened so far on the basis of the instruments of the past, this is quite obvious. the cotonou agreement provides the instruments to help acp countries to integrate in the world economy and to reduce poverty. we have to use them in the best possible way. it would be a misunderstanding to think that our agreement here and our instruments can do the trick. there are very good basic reasons why these poor countries are not well integrated into the world economy. there are real problems there. the report is written as if it were a realistic assumption that as part of the engineering and the negotiations underlying the cotonou agreement we could easily have confronted and changed many of the underlying global issues. i hope i am not shocking anyone by saying that it is not as easy as that. it never was an option to offer the acp countries a framework of economic development that was not based on the fact that the market economy is here to stay. but this is not the same as saying that the market is the only method. the commission disagrees with that statement. in fact the whole endeavour of our acp-eu cooperation, as well as the rest of our global development cooperation effort, is proof of the fact that we are trying to do something that could never have been done if development was left to the market as such. this is why we do it. let me end on a more conciliatory note by quoting from the conclusion of the report, which i strongly support. "in effect the existence of a new acp-eu cooperation agreement is a victory in itself. furthermore, it contains innovative aspects that will have to be interpreted and used constructively. as the european parliament has no powers to amend this text, it is essential to work to get the most out of it, so that aid can make a real contribution to the well-being of the people of the acp countries, as regards their food, health, educational requirements, etc." this is the kind of language i can identify with. we welcome this conclusion. i want to conclude by expressing deep satisfaction on behalf of the commission that the european parliament has now concluded its part of this process and we hope to see it concluded in general as soon as possible.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the next item is the report (doc. (the sitting was closed at 11.30 p.m.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i also wish mr fischler well and i am also in favour of not postponing the debate this morning. this is too important. it was a real piece of work getting this report with 400 amendments through the committee. the high number of amendments was certainly not due to the efforts of my esteemed colleague, mrs miguélez ramos, who has done an exemplary job and has presented a balanced report, and for which i would like to thank her once again. why, then, the effort, some may ask mockingly. but i cannot stress enough the importance of this report for the future of fisheries in europe. for almost 20 years, there has been a common fisheries policy with its ups and downs. fishing flowed through some of the wave valleys. but brussels is not the only one to blame. no, not all member states and not all fishermen are in agreement. that is why the cfp has not fully met the high standards. this year we are at a crossroads in the truest sense of the word. what direction do we want to give to the future of the common fisheries policy in europe? i can assure you that parliament's recommendations will find fertile ground in the commission, because this cooperation between the institutions must and will continue in the interests and for the benefit of european fisheries. the commission is now in a position to put forward its proposals for reform in the light of the recommendations contained in the report. we are looking forward to that, and that is why i hope for a large majority today. but i want to make one thing clear. it's going to be a rough sea ride, because as i said, the challenges are enormous. i would like to emphasize briefly a few points which i believe are essential for the future of fisheries policy in europe. first, without fish, there will be no fishing. this equation is simple, but true. we need to pay even more attention to the maintenance of healthy stocks, because only healthy marine ecosystems guarantee sustainable and future-proof management. i think we all want, here in parliament and on the coasts, a viable fisheries sector, and a viable one not just for today and perhaps tomorrow but for decades to come. secondly, we know too little about the interconnectedness of the marine ecosystem. that is why research must be intensified. thirdly, we do not find enough fish in european waters, and that is a fact. that is why we must fish outside and why we need agreements with third countries. these are expensive and they are getting more expensive, and tomorrow they will probably be too expensive. we must find new ways of doing this, including by involving those who directly benefit. we owe it to the taxpayer. time is running much too fast, not only for my speech but also for the reform of the cfp. let us work together to find a viable solution for our fisheries in europe by the end of the year.
in writing. - (de) my group supports the recommendation on the acp-ec partnership agreement. we welcome the fact that relations between the union and the acp countries have reached a remarkable level in the meantime. new areas of cooperation in direct trade were opened up in the cotonou agreement. it is all the more disconcerting that this agreement has been ratified by only two of the 15 eu states. the agreement is undoubtedly a step forward compared with its predecessors, because it takes greater account of the interests of the acp countries. but there is no real equality or equal rights. it is unfair that the union is demanding that the acp states make efforts to develop an autonomous economy, but at the same time it is stifling the possible solutions to achieve this through a policy of export subsidies. similarly, on the political level, the acp countries are not given the consultative voice they deserve. the poorest countries, which need the greatest support and for which rigorously developed concepts of development and cooperation policy are needed, have virtually no opportunity to participate in the parliamentary assemblies of the eu and the acp countries. it is particularly regrettable in my view that the union is still divided - if not disturbed - about the caribbean state of cuba, and is more oriented towards american interests than its own. the belgian presidency has made efforts to break the ice in these relations and to open up the way for dialogue. it is based on three important assumptions: 1. the the eu and its member states should look more closely at the situation in cuba and take an unbiased view of the realities; 2. the it is necessary for both sides to distinguish between differences in parliamentary and socioeconomic policy and to accept them in a reciprocal manner; 3. the we must not take the path of outbidting each other. the eu has also been asked to provide assistance to cuba in the form of a loan for the construction of a new nuclear power plant. in the statements by prime minister aznar for the spanish presidency, i deplored the lack of clear admission in favour of continuing the dialogue with the aim of reaching, if possible this year, a partnership agreement between the eu and cuba. i fear that the modest progress made will be reduced to nothing. the vice-minister of foreign affairs of cuba, mr dalmas, who had discussions with the representative of my group in december last year, formally expressed the hope and the will of his country to continue and intensify the dialogue with the eu. political experience shows that broken negotiations are very difficult to restore. cuba should not be excluded from the acp process but should be constructively involved in it by further developing the dialogue.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. madam president, i too would like to congratulate you on your new appointment. i'm delighted to welcome another woman to the podium. i would now like to speak about my report on the implementation of the leonardo i phase of the programme, but i received a message this morning which forces me to change this approach. according to that information, the veracity of which i cannot doubt, the commission has had a report since 31 august 2001 which indicates, and i quote: 'possible irregularities and possible professional wrongdoing within the commission' in the implementation of leonardo i. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of carrying out an inquiry into the fraudulent activities of the olaf and the commission, or reopening the investigation already carried out in 1999/2000. the fact that there is such a report with the contents mentioned was confirmed to me by a commission representative by telephone a few hours ago. i was unable to verify the activities of olaf because the director of that agency was not available to me. so, since there is obviously substantial information pointing to deficiencies in this programme beyond those already identified, the business case for my report has been lost. i therefore ask, on behalf of my group, the epp, that the debate and the vote be suspended today and that the report be referred back to the committee responsible so that i can inform myself accordingly and present a report containing all the information and documents actually available. i would ask the commissioner present to explain to the house why the commission did not inform me or my colleagues of this report, although i had a conversation with a commission representative yesterday. i would like to point out that withholding information and reports of such vital importance is not in keeping with the principle of trusting cooperation between parliament and the commission and that i am personally very disappointed in this approach. (applause from the centre)
commission. – madam president, i asked to speak but i did not want to break the rules of the house. when you called for one speaker in favour of and one speaker against the decision to postpone the report by mrs stauner, i did not like to speak because i am not supposed to take a position on that. nevertheless, i should like to stress that the commission has informed the house a number of times that both our directorate-general for administration and olaf are currently examining a lengthy report into several allegations by a commission official of possible irregularities within the commission in relation to a variety of issues. as i have said, the examination of the report by olaf and the dg for administration is ongoing. they have not yet reached a conclusion as to whether the report contains new elements in relation to leonardo that would require further investigation. i have been told by my colleagues who are directly responsible for these matters that they will reach their conclusions shortly.
the rapporteur. madam president, just so there are no misunderstandings. commissioner, i am grateful to you for that statement. i was certainly not aware that you had instructed this commission official to draw up a final report by 31 august, but then i learned about it, not from the commission but from other sources. but do you not consider it a matter of good faith cooperation or good administration if you at least inform the rapporteur when a report is due to be drawn up to complete the evaluation of a particular phase of a programme? the report makes new allegations against leonardo in particular. i have to assume that you were here to get a parliamentary permit and then, at some point in the next six months, you might have come out with some other scandals. you could easily say: 'but please, parliament has also approved our approach!' please abide by the rules of fair play. if there is a general account, i can't smell that there might be something about leonardo i in the middle!
the commission has already done so. i too would like to thank you for your detailed reply. i share your view that considerable progress has been made in the process of discussing basel ii so far. mr karas and mrs villiers have also pointed out some fundamental problems, particularly with regard to the different structures of financing in europe, and we still have a number of unresolved problems. you have rightly raised the problem of internal and external ratings, where we have made progress, but you yourself said that the creditworthiness of collateral, the timing of loans, with long-term loans being considered as being considerably riskier, all this is still being discussed in basle. it was important for me to hear today - and i ask you to reflect on this - what has come out of the question put by mrs villiers and mr karas. there are two open points. the one open point remains: how does the commission - if it sees these problems as we do, i gathered from its reply - take action in basle? you have addressed the member states - and spain as a new member state - but in the end we are the legislators. it is important to make clear how the implementation is envisaged. i would like you to give me a more specific statement on this. the second point i am interested in is that we all hope that the problems which are affecting us here in the parliamentary process will be solved in basle. we can't all be in on this. but what happens if they're not solved? what is the commission's view, for example, of what is of fundamental importance for austria and germany: how do we assess longterm loans if this problem is not solved? the question arises for me, and the statement by your colleague, commissioner bolkestein, that a 1:1 rate is absolutely necessary, is still in the house. we can do relatively little with that statement in basel. what are the ideas within the commission to introduce some flexibility into this? i would also like to point out that i would be very interested in your views on the implementation process. if basel ii is adopted and you yourself have mentioned the 2005 target, then it should be very fast. so far, we have heard from your house that there will be a framework directive, that there will be annexes to it, which will regulate the technical details, as they are called, but which will also clarify the regulatory issues. it's going to be a very quick process. i would very much welcome the start of this working party between parliament and the commission very quickly, so that those within parliament - and we three from the ppe group are very keen to see this - can be involved in the process in time to avoid the problem of time.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. most of you know that i have a different opinion than our president. but i respect that decision, and if you have succeeded in getting an attitude of good will which is subsequently reflected in actual treaty amendments or in some other recognition of our rights, that would be a success which would not have been possible without the joint action of the legal affairs committee and the president.
- mr president, i have to go. i would like to congratulate you on your decision not to refer the matter to the european court of justice, because the creation of the european company was one of the objectives of this parliamentary term. it's one of five decisions that the economy is waiting for. this decision has been awaited for thirty years. thirty years of negotiations. to go to the court of justice now would mean that this matter would be delayed for another five or six years; i am convinced that no company would actually use this important new form under these uncertain conditions. i therefore believe that it was wise not to refer the matter to the european court of justice.
mr president, i did not want to speak, but i have something to say if the others have something to say. (cheers and applause) i would like to begin by thanking you for the way you have handled the question. the majority of our group, as mr lehne has said, was in favour of a lawsuit. but there were other opinions, such as that of our esteemed colleague karl von wogau. but i liked the way you approached the matter politically, that you spoke on the phone with the president of the council, with the spanish prime minister, josé maría aznar, and of course that you had contact with the president of the commission, romano prodi. we have, of course, confidence in the spanish prime minister, not only in his capacity as prime minister but also as president of the council, that he will now keep his word, that his words will be followed by action. i would also like to say to the commission - commissioner, please tell commission president romano prodi: we expect the commission to take a position tomorrow on the report by mr karl von wogau, on financial services, on everything we understand by 'lamfalussy', which also respects the rights of parliament vis-à-vis the council of ministers. we'll expect that tomorrow. if such a declaration is not made, it will have serious consequences for relations with the commission, so your action tomorrow, mr president, will certainly be helpful for the president's declaration. i would like to thank you once again for the way you have dealt with this matter politically. (applause from the centre)
the commission is aware of the seriousness of the situation in the member states, and it is aware of the seriousness of the problems facing the community. this proposal is not the whole of the european drug policy: this proposal concerns only a specific component which has to do with the fight against drug trafficking. but the approach to drugs in the european union is set out in the action plan for 2000-04, which will be evaluated midway through this year. in laaken, the heads of state and government asked us to adopt by the end of may this year the framework decision on the harmonization of criminal sanctions at european level for drug trafficking. and that is the sole purpose of this proposal. the commission believes that in the fight against drug trafficking, close cooperation between the different judicial, police and customs authorities of the member states is necessary to respond to the challenge of transnational drug trafficking. such cooperation, if it is to be effective, needs to be based on a common approach at union level, in particular the approximation of the definitions of criminal offences and penalties applicable to trafficking, which must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. we welcome the objectives of mr oostlander's report. it is clear that the repressive measures against traffickers must be supplemented and completed by a policy of prevention and social reintegration of drug addicts. the nature of the instrument envisaged is that it is aimed solely at the repressive aspects of the drug phenomenon. the commission has worked to prepare this criminal initiative with full knowledge of the facts, thanks to the considerable preparatory work we have carried out, in particular by studying the definitions in each of the member states, the sanctions applicable in law and - not least - the concrete conditions for applying criminal sanctions for drug trafficking in each of the 15 member states. this study, which has been made public, has thus made it possible to compare the drug trafficking legislation of all the member states. the first important point to be made is that the aim is to harmonize criminal sanctions for drug trafficking. this proposal cannot be considered as restricted to transnational or cross-border trafficking. because one of two things: either in most cases the drug trafficking originates outside europe and is always transnational, or i do not see how it is possible to want to punish more severely a cross-border trafficking than serious trafficking that occurs within each member state. states cannot have two criminal codes, one to apply to drug trafficking exclusively within their borders and another to apply to drug trafficking when it involves a cross-border dimension. we now come to the second question: the definition of drug trafficking. the commission has already been criticised for being too unambitious in this respect. what did we do? we have simply taken the key elements of the 1988 united nations convention against illicit traffic in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and integrated this definition with national provisions on the definition of drug trafficking offences. it is, in that sense, an attempt to find a synthesis of drug trafficking definition. but here - third important point - we have respected the principle of subsidiarity. and so this definition does not include individual drug use, nor does it include non-profit transactions for personal use. these matters are left to the exclusive jurisdiction of each member state because, as this debate has shown, the solutions of the 15 member states differ substantially in this area. the commission proposal does not therefore alter these differences in national legislation in those areas where drug trafficking for personal consumption is considered to be outside the scope of criminal sanctions. but when trafficking is of such a scale and gravity that it should be subject to criminal sanctions, the commission proposes that they be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. the minimum sentence of a maximum sentence of five years is a penalty which not only gives the judges a wide margin of manoeuvre in applying the law according to the circumstances of each trafficking case, but is also a proposal which is intended to give an idea of the severity with which the drug trafficking cases to which this penalty applies are intended to be punished. i know that in some countries - mr carlos coelho referred to the portuguese case - the minimum penalty of the maximum penalty is heavier. i should like to say that in others it is lighter, and that this figure of five years seems to us to correspond to a minimum level of harmonization, naturally leaving it to the legislation of each member state to establish other, more severe levels of minimum sanction for the maximum penalty applied. but this is a matter for discussion at council level. i therefore believe that this proposal, which i hope parliament will adopt, is a first step in a fight in which all member states are involved against drug trafficking which threatens the health, safety and quality of life of citizens and which, as mr oostlander has pointed out, is one of the sources of funding for many other criminal activities, including terrorism itself. in this context, i hope that parliament will support the report and create the conditions for the council to adopt this framework decision by the end of may this year.
- doc. a5-0436/2001 by mrs ludford, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council directive on the status of third-country nationals who are longterm residents (com (2001) 127 - c5-0250/2001 - 2001/0074 (cns)); - a5-0455/2001 by mrs kessler, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council directive on the conditions under which third-country nationals may move freely within the territory of the member states for a period not exceeding three months, introducing a specific travel authorisation and laying down the conditions of entry for a stay not exceeding six months.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to go. the common rules governing the conditions under which third-country nationals may move freely within the territory of the member states are very welcome. the committee's work has repeatedly criticised the fragmented attempts to regulate the situation, following a french and a portuguese initiative. a more global approach to free movement in the schengen area was called for. this requirement is met by the present commission proposal for a directive. the first is to regulate and harmonise the conditions under which third-country nationals may enjoy freedom of movement for a maximum of three months. this is in accordance with the treaty of amsterdam, which requires the council to define the conditions within five years of its entry into force. the second is the introduction of a completely new instrument - the special travel authorization. this allows for a travel exemption extended to six months under special conditions. first of all, i do not understand why the legal instrument of the directive was chosen and not that of the regulation. the text is sufficiently specific. since a directive requires national transposition, the application of the act is delayed indefinitely. in addition, this act replaces, inter alia, regulation 1091/2001, which has already entered into force. it is for this reason that the legal instrument of the regulation is the most appropriate instrument. the content of the freedom of movement for third-country nationals who are not subject to the visa requirement and for holders of long-term residence permits has not changed. however, a new regulation will apply to holders of national long-stay visas issued by the member states who do not yet have a residence permit. contrary to the commission's proposal, i believe that such thirdcountry nationals should continue to be able to travel within the territory of the member states even before an application for the issue of such a residence permit has been made. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the schengen agreement is respected. this would be incomprehensible to all concerned. moreover, there is no reason why this category should be treated differently and worse than the other third-country nationals covered by the directive as regards the beginning of the freedom to travel. however, third-country nationals travelling on a national visa must then also meet the same criteria as third-country nationals travelling on a schengen uniform visa. this is the result of the equalization of visas for the area of freedom of movement. this means that the consultation procedures between member states on the confidential lists 5a and 5b of the consular instructions must also apply to national visas. the member states which have reservations about third country nationals from certain countries would otherwise have no means of knowing and controlling the issuing of national visas by other member states. this would create a security gap which is unacceptable after the events of 9/11. the committee held a lively discussion on this point. nevertheless, the committee supported my proposal by a large majority. this result confirms the strength of the committee to take a new decision on a matter which has already been voted on, in the light of changed circumstances.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank the commission, you, mr vitorino, for the balanced proposal on the permanent residence of third-country nationals, and also the rapporteur, baroness ludford, for the intensive cooperation. i am particularly concerned about the amendments to this directive which allow member states to carry out a safety check. this is not only for the benefit of the host country but for the benefit of the european union as a whole. the schengen agreement provides for the possibility of crossing internal borders at any time, so that the other member states can rely on the responsible reception of third-country nationals in the first host country. this review takes account of the security needs of the host population and the needs of third country nationals living in our member states. on the one hand, they are also protected against acts of terrorism, but on the other hand, the respective state makes it clear that the third-country nationals living with us do not pose a threat to internal security. we must not forget that the european union is a major player in the world economy, and that it is the world's largest exporter of goods and services. the possibility of making integration a criterion for obtaining a residence permit is also important. as a rule, third-country nationals with long-term residence status wish to become nationals. that means they want to be part of society, and that means being able to communicate. for from understanding comes understanding, and from understanding comes unity. so we have to set signs. we must demand and promote language learning. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is based on the principle of equal treatment of men and women, which is also enshrined in the treaty on european union. the demand is first and foremost an opportunity and not an obstacle, because we all agree that we want to give those people who come to us and stay a fair chance.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i now turn to the ludford report, which is primarily concerned with ensuring better conditions through more rights for people who have been living here legally for a long time. that's a good approach. the problem is that third country nationals are a kind of third class of citizens within the eu, after the nationals of a particular country and then, secondly, the nationals of the other eu countries. the report continues this distinction, and thus also justifies the fact that there will never be a definitive non-discrimination. because if you really want to ensure that there are equal rights for all, you must also level these differences. the second point is even more important to me. once again, it is about improving the rights of long-term residents in the eu. but this is only a very specific group, those with legal status. that's gonna get rid of all the people who live here illegally. now, one might say, okay, the illegal immigrants are not part of the report and that is why we do not want to talk about them today, but that is precisely the problem: it is always only about people with legal residence status and almost all other legislative projects - even initiative reports - repeatedly pass amendments which are precisely in favour of strengthening the rights of the illegal immigrants. it must be said that the illegalised are the logical consequence of an eu policy of fortification. i therefore do not hope that there will be any major changes on this point within parliament, the commission or the council in the short term. but then you should also be honest and say that this is really only about the people who are lucky enough to be able to enter the eu under very undignified conditions at all - often illegally, who then pull the trigger to get asylum from any eu country, or who are just capitalist exploitable. for all the people who fall off this grid, there should be no rights improvement.
the commission is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. in our view, the status of third-country nationals who are long-term residents in the territory of a member state is a fundamental element in the development of a common immigration policy. the long-term resident status puts admission policies in a long-term perspective, offering third-country nationals who so wish the guarantee of being able to reside permanently in their host state. this status, as proposed by the commission, gives them the legal certainty they need to be able to integrate successfully into european societies. the objective stated in tampere and reiterated in laaken is to ensure fair treatment for legal immigrants and to offer them rights and obligations comparable to those of citizens of the european union. the commission proposal aims to bring the rights of longterm residents closer to those of union citizens. we have defined the precise and objective conditions to which third-country nationals must be subject to obtain long-term resident status. these conditions were formulated essentially to assess whether the third-country national has in fact permanently established his residence in the member state in question and whether he intends to integrate there. you must have lived in that member state for a sufficiently long period (five years) and have proven your economic integration through income and sickness insurance. furthermore, the person concerned must not constitute a threat to public policy. the report on which the honourable members are debating also indicates an additional condition for the status: the knowledge of the language of the country of residence. the commission considers that language is a criterion of integration and therefore language learning must be at the heart of the new integration policies on which the commission is currently working in the spirit of its november 2000 communication and on which we intend to present an initiative to the parliament and the council in 2003. that is why i am willing to take account of the language question, which is proposed in an amendment signed by mrs eva klamt, especially in its objective dimension and, in particular, when the host state provides immigrants with effective conditions for their learning. as regards the addition of a new requirement on old age insurance or retirement insurance, i do not think it is useful to multiply the conditions for obtaining long-term resident status. the legislation of most member states now grants this status automatically without checking whether or not such a condition for old-age insurance is fulfilled. this question must be integrated into a wider and more complex issue which has to do with the relationship between migrant workers and social benefit schemes in general. the commission is therefore working to extend to thirdcountry nationals the benefit of regulation no 1408/71 on the coordination of social security schemes. and we think that's the context in which this issue should be addressed. with regard to some of the proposed amendments, the commission believes that only when longterm resident status is granted will the beneficiary be able to enjoy equal treatment with nationals of the member states in virtually all areas of socioeconomic life. however, we are sensitive to the amendments which are being tabled to enshrine, even before the granting of status, equal treatment in legal proceedings and in appeals as contained in the amendments tabled by mrs ludford, and we will incorporate them into the text. the commission does not comment on participation in political life, as it considers that there is no legal basis in the treaties for dealing with this matter. some of the proposed amendments reflect a particular concern for public order, which is fully understandable after the events of 11 september. i share the view expressed here in the course of the debate that we must avoid making the mistake of making a dangerous conflation between immigration and terrorism, which would lead to a kind of general suspicion of all third-country nationals. the commission has drawn up a working document on the relationship between safeguarding internal security and respect for international protection obligations and instruments. in the light of this document we have checked all the public policy clauses in our proposals. this work aimed to ensure that member states were able to effectively protect their public order in the face of the terrorist threat. this examination has led the commission to revise some of its proposals, including the present proposal, in particular with regard to two points: abolish the requirement that the threat be effective before the granting of status, thus addressing cases of potential risk as they can already be interpreted in the light of the current wording of the 1951 geneva convention; we also lifted the ban on emergency expulsion measures, provided certain assumptions are verified. i believe that these two amendments are in response to the concerns of ensuring internal security and the fight against terrorism and that in this sense the proposed amendments should not be considered. finally, the innovation and the important added value of this proposal is the right granted to longterm residents to move to another member state. in this case, integration is no longer only at national level, but also at european level. and people who have lived for a certain time in one member state will be in a better position than those who come directly from their country of origin whenever they want to move to another member state. i think this is a very important aspect which should not be neglected. as regards the proposal on the free movement of thirdcountry nationals, which is the subject of a report by mrs kessler, i would first like to stress that the proposal contains important elements in terms of creating an area of freedom, security and justice. the schengen acquis already includes certain rules on the movement of thirdcountry nationals. however, the conditions attached to the exercise of this freedom to travel are not always transparent and are spread over several instruments. the commission shares the view of the european parliament that it is necessary to bring together in a single legal instrument all the fragmented elements which define this freedom to travel. the proposal thus lays down the conditions under which third-country nationals may move freely, whether or not they are subject to the visa requirement, whether they have a residence document or a long-stay visa, while awaiting the issuance of a residence document. the proposal also aims to regulate the movement of various categories of persons who have a legitimate interest in staying for a period of between three and six months in the borderless area without their situation being equivalent to immigration in the strict sense. for example, tourists, researchers, touring musicians, people visiting family, hospitalization and convalescence cases. for these people, a specific travel authorisation is to be introduced allowing them to travel for a maximum of six months without staying for more than three months in the same member state, which is fully in line with the letter of the treaty. the majority of the amendments in mrs kessler's report are intended to clarify and clarify the content of the proposal. as regards the question of the legal instrument, it is proposed that a regulation be chosen rather than a directive. the commission supports any solution which, in the council, takes up its suggestions. the only point of disagreement we have with mrs kessler's proposal concerns amendment no 5 on movement in a borderless area with a long-stay visa, which, as mr deprez has already pointed out, must be examined with caution. we ask parliament not to approve it. a long-stay visa is a national visa, which will be issued according to national rules and not according to the rules of chapter 3 - section i of the convention implementing the schengen agreement. in this context, i think it is difficult to impose on long-stay visas the rules laid down for short-stay visas, i.e. prior consultation. during the debate on the french initiative on long-stay visas, this type of proposal was already rejected by parliament, which questioned in particular the legal basis and, above all, the fragmented approach. in the same spirit as parliament had already approved it, the commission also questioned the legal basis and stated that it would in any case submit a proposal which would also include long-stay visa holders and thus take up the objective of the french initiative and place it in a more global framework. i share the concern underlying amendment no 5, namely that a third country national should be able to move about immediately in the borderless area. but this possibility already exists today because a third country national can always apply for a uniform visa, the so-called 'c' visa, and move freely on the basis of it. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs and hope that the proposals put forward by the commission will find support across the border in this parliament.
- thank you very much, commissioner vitorino. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0464/2001) by mr van den berg, on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation, on the communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament on the links between emergency aid, rehabilitation and development - evaluation. the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should:
- mr president, i have to go. first of all, i welcome, on behalf of my group, the compromise reached in the conciliation committee on the framework directive on information and consultation. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mrs ghilardotti, for having led us to this compromise. it is now very close to the common position. we have had quite controversial discussions in our group on information and consultation, but we agreed that the common position is a really good starting point for a sensible solution. since the first reading in parliament in april 1999 and even before that, there have often been major differences of opinion between the political groups; the rapporteur had to move - she did -; the same applies to me as the shadow rapporteur of the strongest group, the epp-ed. there is a constructive compromise. the possible has been achieved. it was about finally getting my foot in the door. the next gust of wind can open the door further. the epp-ed was able to win many points at the second reading. the majority of my group was against european sanctions but in favour of national ones. in the conciliation procedure these ideas were also included in the recitals. the final version of the framework directive will firstly contribute to the functioning of the european works council. all local workers' representatives are given minimum rights to help them use the information received from the european works council. secondly, it helps to alleviate restructuring problems which also affect national companies. the works council directive, on the other hand, applies only to transnational companies. the framework directive requires that the procedure be carried out in a spirit of cooperation. that means partnership. the partnership aims at a clear representation of interests, but also at balancing interests in a joint dialogue through information and consultation. timely information brings transparency, which creates trust and avoids friction losses for businesses - an economic and social advantage. the winners are employers and employees alike.
- mr president, mr president maystadt, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way in which the commission has presented its proposals. the european investment bank is an integral part of the lisbon process. the promotion of smes and entrepreneurship as a source of employment is gaining in importance as non-bank borrowing becomes more expensive and bank financing becomes more difficult for smes. i think it is an impressive record when we look at what the european investment bank has done since 1968, both in terms of resources and in terms of the project approach. i have to say that the integration of the eif and the eib under one roof, which has been achieved in the lisbon process, is certainly leading to an optimisation of the activities of this european investment bank. i therefore ask those who now want to start another bank to draw on the expertise and the qualified staff that the european investment bank has and use it to optimise results. that is why i am against the establishment of another bank. it would certainly also be in the interest of the countries of central and eastern europe if the activities of the european bank for reconstruction and development and those of the european investment bank were coordinated and brought into line with one another more efficiently. i therefore hope that the quality and financial activity of the european investment bank will be further improved or advanced at the european summit in madrid, also on the basis of the european commission's synthesis report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is therefore very gratifying that there is a european investment bank network of 130 active intermediaries and that there has just been a welcome return to activity in italy. but we should remember that the main thing is to really give small and mediumsized enterprises, at local level, access to working capital and also to venture capital financing. it is therefore also important, mr maystadt, that an assessment be made of the actual impact on growth and employment at local, regional level of this activity of the european investment bank. finally, one of its main areas of activity is regional development. we know that the european union as a whole also benefits from the achievement of economic and social cohesion at regional level. this evaluation must therefore take place and should take place in the future before the spring summits in order to make even better use of the european investment bank's toolbox. mr president, i have one final request. all institutions are bound by the principle of gender mainstreaming. i have noted that progress has been made in recruitment at the european investment bank. unfortunately, there is only one woman on the board so far. the member states are therefore invited to give women the opportunity to participate in the activities of the investment bank. i also note that at the level of the highest administrative officials, there is only one woman among the 12. that should be changed.
president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have the pleasure of responding on behalf of the european commission to the report by mr von wogau on the implementation of financial services legislation in the context of the lamfalussy report. first of all, i would like to congratulate mr von wogau and thank him for the extraordinary effort he has made to create a consensus in parliament on this important issue. i would also like to congratulate mrs randzio-plath, chairman of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on her contribution to stimulating the commission's position on this matter. a fair and balanced implementation of the proposals contained in the lamfalussy report is of fundamental importance to the european union. these are essential steps towards the implementation of the action plan on financial services by 2005, as requested by the lisbon european council, and on securities markets by 2003, as requested by the stockholm european council. the aim is, of course, to achieve a strong and solid capital market throughout the union, and for its citizens and businesses a market which will produce better prospects for employment and growth throughout europe. we have reached a fair and honourable compromise and together we must seize this moment. i am confident that this day will produce a positive result, a strong and effective signal of the renewed cooperation between the commission, the council and this parliament. before i make a solemn declaration on behalf of the european commission, i would like to make it clear, in order to avoid any possible misunderstanding, that together with this declaration the commission will also implement the resolution of the stockholm european council and the elements contained in the letter sent on 2 october by commissioner bolkestein to the chairman of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, mrs randzio-plath. i would also like to draw attention to three points of major importance: firstly, the commission will respect the co-decision rights of this parliament and the rights of information and transparency which are the basis of our democratic process. in full respect of the present institutional balances, the commission will deal with this parliament and the council on an equal footing; secondly, the commission will take into account fully and without exception the position of the european parliament, as set out in the stockholm european council resolution, and will do everything in its power to find appropriate solutions within the framework of the current institutional balances; thirdly, in the future, in the context of the revision of the treaties, the commission would like to see article 202 amended and more clarity on the future executive tasks and the equal role of the two co-legislators. i now read the formal statement on behalf of the european commission. 'the integration of financial services markets is fundamental to the consolidation of the european economy, as established by the lisbon and stockholm european councils. in order to achieve this objective, it is crucial that the financial services action plan is implemented within the time limits set by the european council conclusions: 2005 for the action plan as a whole and 2003 for the securities market measures. in the context of the barcelona european council, which will examine the state of progress of the union's economic reform defined in lisbon, the commission welcomes the close cooperation between the community institutions. it also expresses its confidence in its harmonious development in order to implement its proposals, drawn up on the basis of the recommendations of the committee of wise men, chaired by baron lamfalussy. in general, the commission stated in the white paper on european governance that its executive responsibilities should be better defined and that the council and parliament should have the same role in monitoring how the commission exercises this mandate. in the white paper the commission also indicated its intention to initiate a discussion on this subject at the next intergovernmental conference and expressed its support for an amendment to article 202 of the treaty establishing the european community. pending the next revision of the treaties, flexible regulatory mechanisms are needed in the field of financial services, without setting a precedent and in full respect of the institutional balance. in this connection, the commissioner responsible sent a letter to the chairman of parliament's committee on economic and monetary affairs on 2 october 2001. in this context, the commission is therefore able to: - take note of parliament's intention to limit the duration of the delegation of executive powers to the commission to four years. the period shall be calculated from the entry into force of the corresponding directive and may be extended by an extension proposed by the commission and accepted by the parliament and the council. the commission could accept amendments adopted by parliament to this effect; - to allow parliament a period of three months, starting from the first transmission of the draft implementing measure, to examine it and to give its opinion. however, in cases of duly justified urgency, this period may be shortened; - ensure full transparency towards parliament throughout the procedure for adopting implementing measures, including broad public consultation on the preparation of draft implementing measures; - to share parliament's wish that a group of market operators should take part in the committee of european securities regulators and to strongly support its establishment as soon as possible; - to recall its political will that parliament should be treated equally, reaffirming its commitment to ensuring effective cooperation between the institutions, to taking utmost account of parliament's position and of any resolutions it may adopt if it considers that implementing measures exceed the powers laid down in the basic acts, and, finally, to reaffirming its desire to reach a balanced solution in such cases. 'mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i hope you will support the approach i have outlined, which is the result of long reflection and very close contact with you. we can now take another important step towards european financial integration, which is an indispensable objective after the introduction of the euro. today's positive result makes it all the more necessary to begin work in the interinstitutional working party, which prime minister aznar also gave his authoritative support to, in front of you, during the january partsession. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. what we are witnessing today is an extremely important debate. it is important for banks, for insurance companies and for investment funds, because this debate will make it clear that we are moving forward, moving forward without delay on the road to a european single market for financial services. but the debate is also important for the citizens of the european union, because we are removing obstacles to crossborder competition in financial services, in the provision of credit and in the negotiation of insurance contracts. this competition strengthens the position of the citizen and our european competitiveness. what is this debate about? the commission has already made proposals to the council and parliament on the basis of the proposals contained in the white paper on growth and employment. it has made the wise suggestion that the legislator, that is to say parliament and the council, should confine themselves to the essential requirements, while the fine print, the implementing rules, should then be left to the commission in cooperation with experts. that's a very good suggestion. what is the problem? the problem is that we have repeatedly experienced as parliamentarians that citizens and companies come to us with complaints about the bureaucracy of the european union. and these complaints do not relate to the law, the directive or the regulation we have co-decided on, but to the implementing provisions. that is why we in the european parliament have insisted that we, together with the council, should also be able to carry out a kind of final check on whether the implementing provisions which will then be adopted are actually in line with the requirements of the legislator. what have we achieved in the negotiations with the commission and the council? i would like to thank president prodi very much for his statement, but also commissioner bolkestein, john mogg and many others, and the secretariat of the constitutional committee. i have to tell you, the discussions of the jurists in this environment have occasionally reminded me of the discussions in ancient byzantium about the sex of angels. i would like to thank all those who have helped me to find a sensible way through this maze. what have we achieved? first of all, transparency. this is important because we are kept informed of everything that happens in the commission. we're also getting to see some blueprints. secondly, the limitation of the term of office to four years. after four years, the mandate of the parliament and the council must be renewed. we also achieved an exit control. the statement by president prodi was extremely important here. we have three months, as does the council, to carry out this initial check. in this respect, the equivalence with the council is established. president prodi has also spoken of parity, of equivalence, of additional insurance. thirdly, we must also be clear about the actual balance of power. we are faced with a large number of legislative acts which must be enacted. the commission has to be given a mandate by parliament together with the council, and if the commission did not take account of the legitimate interests and objections of the european parliament, it would have to fear that it would not be given this mandate again in the next legislative act. this means that we as the european parliament are in any case in a very strong position in this context today. i therefore believe that, in view of this context and in view of the statement made by president prodi, the equivalence we have requested is in place. the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, which was set up here, is also of particular importance to me. it is a first step towards more modern european union legislation. we must ensure that legislation generally makes a clear distinction, as alexandre lamfalussy has suggested, between the requirements which parliament and the council as legislators make and the fine print, the technical details. and here, for example, the supervisory authorities, the experts should be involved, but at the same time the market participants should also be involved structurally, because these are purely practical questions. i believe that what we are deciding today could also be a model for the convention, for the intergovernmental conference, for improving the european union's legislative procedure. i therefore ask you to approve my report. (applause from the centre)
, chairman of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to emphasize that no one in this european parliament underestimates the importance of financial markets. we all know how important it is that we catch up in capital productivity to the integrated financial market of the united states. on the other hand, we also know that the european financial market is important not only for companies but also for those who are dependent on a proper pension scheme, and who are also dependent on it, given the small size of their pensions from the consumer's point of view. the european parliament therefore has a great responsibility in the codecision procedure to take the right decisions. the procedure we are debating today, with the wogau report, is a very sensitive subject. the rapporteur has tried to find careful language to give all the sensitive participants in this legislative process a chance. i would like to stress once again that this parliament, which is demanding ever more co-decision rights, will not fail to do so in the parliamentary legislative procedure and that today's compromise in the wogau report does not preclude the european parliament from relinquishing this legal position. if we find a transitional provision for secondary legislation today, it only means that we have not been able to get parliament to enshrine secondary legislation in the treaty. this has been the commission's responsibility. i would like to express my gratitude to mr bolkestein, as chairman of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, for the fact that in our negotiations, which were arduous and difficult, we have at last succeeded in including this formulation in the white paper as a commission proposal. this is a joint success. we must now also bring this to a successful conclusion at the next intergovernmental conference and at the next treaty amendment. this is certainly important. but one question remains unanswered: how far can we really give the lamfalussy procedure any meaning in the face of all this legislation, because everything that is called technical today is often political. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we'll see to that. we will also be careful, mr prodi - i think it is clear from your statement and from mr bolkestein's statement - that mr bolkestein's letter of 2 october to the committee will also be included in this minutes as an interpretation. the third thing that is also clear is that the commission, in its two statements today, is committing itself to following the recommendations of the securities committee in no case against a qualified majority in the implementation of the lamfalussy procedure. fortunately, that was clear today. i think that we can therefore approach this form of equal and equivalent cooperation with a great deal of optimism and a constructive spirit. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is a qualitative change, namely the entry into force of the treaty of amsterdam. but i can see from this how necessary secondary legislation based on the treaty is becoming. i would just like to ask the commission whether it is now prepared to grant the competent committee in the european parliament, the committee on economic and monetary affairs, observer status in the securities committee and invite the committee to its meetings on a regular basis.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, after the debate we had this morning and the statement by commission president prodi, it is necessary that we adapt the text of the resolution to this. i have an oral proposal which i have in french:
the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe, and it is a political union of the peoples of europe. mr president, i have said this in private, let me say it in public. it will be a great pleasure for me to work with you, to work with the presidency, to work with parliament and you can be sure that whenever our complicated agendas allow it, i shall be very happy to be in parliament to give an account of the important actions that the european union is taking in the fields of security and foreign policy. ladies and gentlemen, i have been called upon to speak to you today mainly about the middle east and i shall concentrate on that, although i would also like to take this opportunity to exchange a few words with you about the situation in afghanistan and the balkans, where we must not forget that we are very seriously involved. ladies and gentlemen, the first term i will use when speaking about the situation in the middle east is frustration. for those of us who, like myself, have spent many years trying to find a formula for solving the problems of the middle east, the situation we are in cannot be described, either from a personal or a party point of view, but as one of great frustration. i began to be involved in the problems of the middle east at the madrid conference, which was the driving force behind the need to find a formula that had as its fundamental and driving element 'peace for territories, territories for peace' and which subsequently launched the oslo process, which bore fruit, although not all the desired, and which suffered the great tragedy of the assassination of prime minister rabin. unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, today there is no peace process, no peace process, no peace. so my first thought, ladies and gentlemen, is to tell you how i feel as a person involved and how the people who are suffering, on one side or the other, the consequences of this lack of peace process feel. so, we have to be pessimistic? i say no, that despite all the frustration, despite everything that's going on, we should maintain a certain sense of optimism and of possibilities for the future. i think the european union is doing its job well by not throwing in the towel. we must persevere and stick to our principles and our commitment to this process. the middle east peace process, ladies and gentlemen, we must not only defend it for the sake of values, we must not only support it for the sake of the principles which animate the european union, but also because, in this globalised world, the middle east, the mediterranean, is our home. we cannot conceive of a stable europe, a europe of progress, without a mediterranean and a middle east that are progressing. it will be very difficult to achieve a stable, peaceful europe, which has the courage it needs to play its part as a major world player, if we are not also able to have a mediterranean and a middle east that are at peace, at ease and prosperous. let me say that since i had the opportunity and the privilege of working on the mitchell report almost a year ago, there have been many, many missed opportunities. too many times when something could have been done and wasn't. too many times where you could have moved forward and you didn't. we must collectively commit ourselves, the citizens of europe and the legitimate representatives sitting in this parliament, to ensuring that no opportunity is missed again. at this moment there is some opportunity i would like to comment on to your honours. but let me turn a little bit, not to the big story, because we have had occasion to discuss it in this house on several occasions, but to the more immediate story. let me put myself in the month of december of the year that has just ended. in the month of december, on the 10th of december, i was in the middle east. i had the opportunity to be there and to speak with all the political leaders. i also met with general zinni, the u.s. representative there. there was a time of great hardship, as you will recall, but then there was also a time of hope. and we must admit that, thanks to the efforts of miguel ángel moratinos, the representative of the european union on the spot, we have achieved, from about 10 december, the most important moment of peace for many months, until the middle of january. there was an opportunity in those days, the most significant manifestation of which was the speech made by president arafat on 16 december. they would like to recall that on 16 december president arafat delivered a speech in their language, broadcast on television, as requested by the members of the european union, in which he called for a ceasefire, for peace and for the terrorist groups to cease their violent acts on the part of the palestinian authority. there were a few days - as i said - of peace, of hope, which were linked to the christmas holidays. even when president arafat himself was not allowed to go to bethlehem to hold the meetings. unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, since 10 january we have had the same situation as before. first, there was violence by the palestinians in one of the settlements, then israeli forces killed a senior figure in one of the fatah groups, and then there was the incident with the karim a ship. i should like to speak very briefly about both of these. it was a terrible tragedy that in those january days violence broke out again. because we had already passed that fateful date of seven days of total calm that were not used to make a qualitative leap. i remember and i will never forget, how, at the tel aviv airport, on december 6th, late at night, with the representative of the united states, general zinni, we were already thinking about the plan to launch the tenet plan and the launch of the mitchell plan. we had already arranged a trilateral meeting of the security services of palestine, israel and the united states and then a bilateral meeting between the palestinians and the israeli forces. terrorism and violence from one side or the other broke the possibility that we had in those days. and it became complicated - as i said earlier - by the famous episode of the karim a ship. you'll allow me to pause for a moment and explain what the famous karim a ship has meant. the ship, which, as the honourable members know, contained weapons of a greater calibre than those normally used by the palestinians, was also of strategic value to the israeli leadership and also to the united states, which was the beginning of the relationship, not yet definitively established, but quite possible, between 'someone' from the palestinian authority and iran. ladies and gentlemen, the relationship between the palestinian authority and iran has been virtually non-existent for many, many years. if that relationship is ever proven, there is a change of some significance in what we might call the landscape of the middle east. there is no hard evidence that i have been able to see physically, but certainly something of that nature has occurred. all this, as you can imagine, has led to an increase in the already high level of mistrust between the two sides. if camp david meant a breakdown in confidence on both sides, the situation in the first days of january this year has caused an immeasurable increase in mistrust. what can we do from this moment? how can we try to resolve the situation? the european union's famous declaration at laeken in the last days of december is well known. there were clear responsibilities for both sides and i think that is one of the best statements made by the european union. we must continue along this line, we must continue along this direction, which is the same direction taken by the last general affairs council. the european union has also made a statement on the situation in the palestinian authority, and i am sure that the european union will be able to support the palestinian authority in its efforts to bring the palestinian authority back into line with the united states. as you will recall, mr president, arafat is practically a prisoner in ramallah and the israeli authorities continue to claim that the palestinian authority has become unnecessary or irrelevant. the european union is not in favour of this, but of maintaining the palestinian authority and its president, for several reasons: firstly, because he has been elected by the palestinian people and, secondly, because we firmly believe that there will be no military solution to this conflict and that the only possible solution is therefore dialogue, and that dialogue requires partners and the partner chosen by the palestinians is the members of the palestinian authority, headed by president arafat. (applause) so, ladies and gentlemen, we are holding that position. and i have had the opportunity in the past few days - i have been in new york all week talking to the secretary-general, to kofi annan, and in washington to vice-president cheney, to secretary powell and to the president's adviser, condoleezza rice - to try to see if we are able to give a joint boost once again to this terrible situation we have in the middle east. i think these visits have had some consequence. i do not want to talk about the influence of one or the other, or the influence of the european union, i will simply describe the facts. last wednesday evening, while i was already in the united states, prime minister sharon, for the first time after he had said that he would never again make contact with the palestinian authority, received at his private residence three very important palestinian leaders: the president of the palestinian authority parliament, abu ala; the supposed number two of the palestinian authority, mr abu mazen; and mohamed rachid, who is supposed to be one of the most important people in the world of palestinian authority finance. for the first time, prime minister sharon welcomed these people into his home. i can also tell you that yesterday and today secretary powell received abu ala, the president of the palestinian parliament, in washington. i mean, we're at a time where there might be, once again, a little bit of light. the aim of all this effort is to try once again to recover a political perspective. we can and must continue to fight against violence. we must continue to condemn terrorist attacks, but we must also be able to give a political perspective to the conflict. that was the spirit of the mitchell report, that is the spirit in which i participated representing the european union, and that is the spirit which should encourage us all. and that is where we are, your honours. i can't tell you right now that i have enormous hope. i have a little hope. i started the session by saying that i was very frustrated, but i also see that there is some possibility that we can move a little. any move in the right direction, however small, is worth trying. because, ladies and gentlemen, i don't know how many of you have been there lately, but really, the situation, from the point of view of the citizens, is very bad. jericho to ramallah usually took me 20 minutes. right now, from jericho to ramallah, it can take me three hours to get there, because of the police and military checkpoints. ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the european union is doing everything it can to try to give this process a little hope. i believe that the european union must continue to work together with the friends of the united states, as well as with the king of jordan and president mubarak. i have been with the king of jordan for a few hours, i have spoken on the telephone with president mubarak a few hours ago and i spoke with president arafat this morning, and there is, as i say, a glimmer of hope. i can't tell you how many. we still have the rest of the week to work on. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what policy initiatives can we put on the table? i would like to invite you to take part in what i believe should be our way of acting now: helping, contributing to the successful conclusion of the dialogue process which has been opened up between the president of the palestinian authority parliament and the minister for foreign affairs, mr simon peres. as you know, the negotiating mechanism at present is as follows: to try to get the palestinian state recognized as soon as possible, before the final borders are recognized. the idea is that the basis of the negotiation should be the 1967 borders, with exchanges of territory if necessary, to compensate for some of the difficulties that may exist. we must try not to discuss the most difficult issues at this stage: jerusalem and the return of the refugees, and we must start working with the mutual trust of two states which already recognize each other, even if the second is not yet completed. this is the idea we're working on. i can't guarantee successes, you know. i must also tell you, quite frankly, that prime minister sharon told me that for him this was not the perfect solution but that he was going to let the foreign minister continue the negotiation. i mean, we have no assurance that in the end the government of prime minister sharon will accept it. but i think we must continue to work in this direction. if there is no change, even a small twist, in the current situation, violence will continue to dominate the centre of the debate. and we must be able to prevent violence from being the centre of the debate, so that it is occupied by politics. i repeat: this problem can only be solved politically, through dialogue, and sooner or later - and let us hope sooner - weapons and violence must disappear so that politics can emerge. there is no other way. ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago, simon peres was speaking to the 15 ministers in a closed session of the general affairs council and he said something that struck me, because of the way he spoke and the emotion with which he said it. he told us something like this: "i will never be in a government that does not have two states as its goal: palestine and israel. for a dreamer like me, simon peres, who has been here for many years and who has always worked for peace, it is not possible to imagine that there would not be two states. if there were no two states, two things would happen to me that are negative and impossible to accept: one, israel would not be a democratic state because we would be imposing ourselves on the palestinians, or, on the other hand, the palestinian demography would win us over and the state would not be a jewish state". for all these fundamental, profound reasons, which he expressed with great emotion, the fight for two states must continue, and fast, on the basis of the un security council agreements, the two resolutions, and on the basis of those approaches to which i have referred earlier. can we achieve immediate success? i can't guarantee that. will we put all our efforts into doing so? i can assure you. but, ladies and gentlemen, neither the european union nor anyone else has the miracle solution. continuing to work with the united nations, with the united states, with egypt, with jordan is - i believe - the best way to try to move in that direction. so, ladies and gentlemen, this is what we're doing. you can be sure that both miguel ángel moratinos and i will be working around the clock, as long as it takes, to try to resolve this conflict, which concerns us europeans deeply. we are not talking about a distant problem, it is a problem close to us physically, geographically, in our hearts and in our minds. so it is our obligation to continue to do so. ladies and gentlemen, mr president, i would like to make a very brief reference to two subjects on which i have been asked to speak. the first of these is afghanistan. commissioner patten will have more information to give you, because he was the one who represented the european union with great dignity at the tokyo meeting. i would just like to say that we have a personal representative of mine in kabul, and i also say with a certain pride something that we are sometimes unable to recognize: the military forces that are defending kabul at the moment, that are providing support for the government that was approved at the bonn conference - a european city too - are mostly european forces. thirteen countries of the european union have forces deployed there. i think we should say it loud and clear: we should be proud that those who are carrying out the peace and stabilisation process in kabul are basically citizens of our countries. secondly, i will tell you that we have to work, and we will do so in very difficult political conditions during the time remaining until june, when, as you know, the grand assembly will have to be re-elected through the assembly, which will have to meet to re-elect a government, which will not be easy. the present government has certain balances. changing those balances will not be easy, but it will certainly have to be done. we must therefore work very intensively with the representatives of afghanistan and also of three other key countries between now and june. first of all, pakistan. yesterday, both chris patten and i were with the foreign minister of pakistan. i think they are doing an extraordinary job and they should be congratulated for it. secondly, with iran, the other key country for stability in the region. it must be acknowledged that, whatever is said or may be said about iran, both at the bonn meeting and in tokyo, its representatives behaved in a constructive manner. i think we should work with them. and thirdly, with russia. the three countries that shape afghanistan's external stability. we are doing this and we will continue to do so in order to try to bring this process, which will begin in june and which was launched at the bonn meeting, to a successful conclusion. the other subject i wanted to mention very briefly, mr president, is the balkans. i would like to focus on three points, which are, in my opinion, the hottest or potentially the hottest. the first of these concerns fyrom, macedonia and skopje. i think that after the agreements signed in ohrid, we are in an unbeatable situation from a political point of view. the entire constitution was changed and a few days ago the local government law was passed, which was a fundamental element in order to be able to start the return or entry of the police into the areas from which they had been expelled a few months ago. so, you're walking in the right direction. the situation is not perfect yet, but i think we can spend the spring in peace and quiet. at the moment, nato military forces, led by germany, are still there. the government has agreed to a further three months extension, which could be extended to six. the european union is considering the possibility of even taking them as the responsibility of the european union as such in the future. the decision has not been taken, but it is being considered, and so, with regard to skopje, without being able to throw all the bells in the air, i think things are moving in the right direction. the donors' conference, to which chris patten will refer, i think can work and can be a major help from an economic point of view. secondly, as you know, there were elections in kosovo, and we should all be pleased with them. it was an election which took place in complete calm, without any violence and in which the serbian minority also participated. today they are the second force in the assembly. what is happening today, when we are starting february, is that they have not yet been able to agree, and remember that the elections took place in november. they have not yet agreed either to elect the president, who should normally be president rugova, or to form the government. it also happened that the representative of a european mic, which will remain european, had to leave for personal reasons and we had a few weeks of vacancy. i was there trying to give a little impetus to the negotiations, which are absolutely essential, so that rugova, who does not have the majority to govern, can do so with the others. let us hope that in the coming days we will have the assembly with the government formed, with the presidency elected and that they will have the capacity to deal with the real problems that that government will have to face. the last point i wanted to mention concerns the federal republic of yugoslavia. as you know, the talks between podgorica (montenegro) and belgrade broke down on 24 october. i was called by kostunica and yukanovic, to see if we were able to keep those lively conversations. we have achieved this and we are continuing to work, negotiate and facilitate these talks from within the european union. i'm going as far as i can to interview both of you. we shall meet again this sunday, when we shall have another meeting to see if it is possible, through constitutional reform, to avoid the referendum and the separation of montenegro from belgrade. we are working on this with the greatest intensity: there is a total consensus among the member states of the european union that we should make every effort to achieve this objective. there was some doubt as to whether the united states of america would be on the same page or not. i can tell you that after this week of dealing with its leaders, this country is on the same page and is ready to help us to reform the constitution of the federation. i would like to conclude, ladies and gentlemen - and i think, mr president, that i have almost exceeded the time allotted to me, because i was given 30 minutes and i am at the 27th minute - by referring once again to the first point: the middle east. it is and must remain our main concern. the european union has greater responsibilities and we must continue to work in this direction. it will not be easy, but we cannot give up and we cannot fail to be tenacious and persevering. we're going to win this battle. (applause) i would like to thank
commission. – mr president, this is the first time i have spoken in a debate with you presiding. it is not just the half of me that is irish which welcomes your presence in the chair – all of me welcomes your presence in the chair. i wish you well for a very successful presidency. i am sure we can count on it being not only successful but also remarkably eloquent. i have one potential confession: if i have to slip away for a couple of minutes during the course of the debate, it will be just to do my democratic duty in another place, where one of the union's great institutions is meeting and discussing important matters relating to competition policy and other things. i will only do that if i have to and will return straight away to the debate. the whole parliament knows how tirelessly my friend and colleague, mr solana, has worked to restore some semblance of hope in the bloody shambles of the middle east peace process, and to sustain the progress that the union has undoubtedly made in bringing stability and hope to south-east europe, and to the western balkans in particular. i have an admirable speech, which goes over all the issues which the high representative covered so extraordinarily well. in order not to offend the intelligence of parliament and to ensure that as many members can take part in the debate as possible, i will not simply cover the issues which mr solana has covered with such knowledge and passion. i will just underline the strength of my agreement with everything the high representative has said. he has pointed out the missed opportunities – one after another – which have brought so much savagery and violence to the region, beginning with the failure to implement the mitchell report, and going on to the failure to respond with adequate generosity of spirit to the speech made by mr arafat on 16 september. he has touched on some of the appalling errors which have disfigured the history of the region, including the karine shipment. what we have seen is a descent into violence: killings provoking more killings, violence, repression, senseless destruction. as the high representative said, we do not have a middle east peace process any more but – to use a phrase from a new york magazine a few weeks ago – a bloody feud. we have to remain engaged in order to try to restore some hope, and the high representative set out some of the things the european union is doing to press the case for peace and for a political settlement. there is one thing on which i should like to focus – which the european union has been doing and which is sometimes decried. we have been supporting the palestinian authority, and our support for the palestinian authority has first of all made certain that there is still a viable negotiating partner for the israeli government. secondly, it has made sure that there has not been a descent into anarchy in the palestinian territories – because let us be clear that the alternative to a palestinian authority is palestinian anarchy. what is the alternative to the substantial commitment we have made? in the last two years, we have spent about eur 400m from the community budget in the palestinian territories, and that money has been carefully vetted month by month, in particular the contributions we make to the palestinian authority, to ensure that it is not spent on purposes of which this parliament would not approve. it must be said that if the accountants of enron had been one-hundredth as diligent as the imf is, month by month, in looking at how our money is spent in the palestinian territories, a lot more people would still have jobs and pensions to look forward to. (applause)when one looks at that commitment and sees the extent to which projects we have started and others in which we have invested money have been destroyed, wilfully and purposefully, it is enough to make one literally weep. we have seen the destruction of projects worth about eur 17m in which the european union has invested – that is, just over a tenth of the total destruction of infrastructure which has been identified by the world bank. and the world bank argues, though this must be a very rule-of-thumb figure, that the palestinian national income has been reduced by about usd 2.4bn as a result of what has happened over the last months. i ask myself, and i ask parliament: where is the evidence that any of that increases security? (applause)where is the evidence that going back twice to destroy the forensic laboratory that we had been asked to provide for the palestinian security services increases security in the territories? where is the evidence that destruction of a sewage pump increases the security of israel and israeli citizens – something which i wholly understand they are passionately concerned about? where is the evidence that taking bulldozers to the runway in gaza airport is a contribution to the security of israel? we all know that sort of destruction of infrastructure, health and education services, people's livelihood and jobs destroys hope and any prospect of political stability and security. the high representative referred to what we are doing in afghanistan and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. why is europe spending eur 600m this year in afghanistan – eur 200m from the community budget? we are doing that not just out of humanitarian motives, but also to try to ensure a more stable and secure future for the people of afghanistan. we know that economic development and social progress help contribute to political stability and to greater security. that is why we are making that investment in afghanistan and why, so far, the european union, the member states and the commission have pledged about 45% of what the world bank and the undp say is going to be needed in afghanistan over the next five years. i hope some others – the united states, japan, saudi arabia – will be as generous as we have been in the next few years. why are we spending what we spent in the balkans, in fyrom, for example? in the last few months, with the reconstruction agency starting to do as good a job in fyrom as elsewhere in the region, we have already repaired 400 houses, there will be 300 more repaired by april; electricity has been restored in aracinovo; water and electricity are restored in kumanovo. we have made a considerable contribution to restoring normality to macedonia and will keep on doing that. again, why? not only because of a humanitarian impulse but also because we know from our experience in europe that there is a relationship between economic stability and political stability and security. i do not labour this point as a sort of demented chartered accountant. i make these arguments because they are so obviously true. we know they are true from our experience. if you make people unemployed, if you destroy any infrastructure for people's social well being, then what you are doing is not only making their lives miserable but also, almost certainly, making sure that everyone's lives become more violent. i hope that even now in the palestinian territories and in israel more people will be prepared to listen to the moderates, to those who made their views about the future so bravely known at kalandria checkpoint before christmas. i hope that the voice of peace movement will be listened to because the people who argue in that brave way for peace are the only ones who really chart a way forward for the middle east, for the palestinian state in the future, and for israel. anybody who does not believe that should ask members of this parliament; should ask somebody like mr hume what helped to produce peace in northern ireland. it was moderates being prepared to stand up for their beliefs, it was moderates having the courage and decency to go out there and argue for what we all know is the only way in which you turn off the violence and turn on the peace and security. look at what has happened in south africa, which the voice of peace movement from the middle east has recently been visiting – exactly the same process occurred there. so in endorsing everything which the high representative has said, i just wanted to ask this question: how many more people have to die before the voices of the moderates who are left in the palestinian territories and israel are actually listened to by the citizens of those communities? (applause)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the events of 11 september and then what happened in afghanistan, what is happening now in the middle east, have displaced one thing that both mr solana and mr patten have talked about, namely a peace settlement in macedonia. i would like to express my sincere thanks to mr solana and mr patten and to all those who took part in the debate for the fact that there is peace in macedonia today. the european union has achieved a great success! you've worked tirelessly to make this happen. the european people's party and the european democrats would like to thank you for this. (applause from the centre) we're looking east these days and weeks. we expect new countries to join the european union in a few years. but i say very strongly and i emphasize what the high commissioner has said: it is important for our security in europe that we achieve peace in the middle east and that we as europeans cooperate peacefully and well with all the countries of the mediterranean region. we also say that when we talk about these problems, we must first put people at the centre. we are very clear that the life and dignity of a christian and a non-christian in europe, the life of a jew, an israeli in jerusalem or in tel aviv and the life of a palestinian and a muslim in ramallah or in gaza have the same value, and no distinction should be made between human rights in europe, in the islamic world or anywhere else on this earth. (applause from the centre) we fully agree with both mr solana and mr patten when we say that we need dialogue and we need partnership. this includes speaking the truth and not agreeing with irresponsible words. for example, when israeli prime minister ariel sharon said in the thursday edition of maariv, and i quote, "in lebanon, in 1982, it was agreed that arafat should not be eliminated. to tell you the truth, i regret that we didn't eliminate him. this is irresponsible language. this is a language that leads to war; this is not reconciling language! (applause from the centre) it's hard for me, even with my nationality - i was born after the war - to say this here. i think it is cynical that the prime minister of israel should speak of an increase in anti-semitism in europe because of our criticism of his attitude. no, we are not anti-semitic! we want israel to live in peace, within secure borders. we stand with all israelis. this has nothing to do with anti-semitism! we reject this label in all our resolve! (applause from the centre) but we also have demands on yasser arafat. he wrote a remarkable article in the new york times a few days ago. when he says that he wants to step up his efforts against terrorism on the palestinian side, he is also saying that he may not have done enough. we therefore call on yasser arafat to do more here, where he has influence, even though we know that he does not control all the groups in palestine. mr solana also spoke of the arms deliveries to the karine a. we also want information on what they are for. we call on arafat to provide the necessary information. i believe that we europeans have a great task ahead of us, together with the americans. but americans also need to understand that they have to treat israel and palestine equally, that both sides have equal dignity. foreign minister powell spoke in an interview a few days ago about the right to exist, the right to be a state, about palestine. we welcome all of this. i think that we europeans and americans now have a common task to contribute to peace in this region. of course yasser arafat is the elected president of palestine. if we do not accept him as a negotiator, there can be no peace, there can be no dialogue! we therefore call on ariel sharon and yasser arafat to start peace talks so that the people of the region, the middle east, can have a future that is worthy of humanity. all those who promote this, like javier solana, chris patten and others, have the full support of our group! (applause from the centre)
- mr president, mr commissioner, i also want to welcome the commissioner who will be back in the chamber shortly. i would like to begin by agreeing with what mr poettering has said on behalf of his group and, on behalf of my group, to express our thanks for the successful policy pursued by the high commissioner and the commissioner on the macedonia question last summer. unfortunately, our press is constantly full of what is not going well in europe, but when successful policy is being made, it is hardly mentioned. i want to talk mainly to the middle east. i am appalled by the figures which have come out of the commission on the destruction which has recently occurred in projects financed by the european union alone. it's not so much about whether something is being destroyed, but rather why it's being destroyed. the israeli government is trying to destroy every infrastructure of a future palestinian state. and that is what we cannot accept. mr high commissioner, you said today that what we have there is not a peace process. i'm with you on that. i have been saying in this parliament for a year and a half that we should stop using the word peace process. it's a low-intensity war, but it's a war. our task is to stop this war and to try to restart a future peace process. but we're a long way from that. i fully support you, mr solana, when you say that the eu must move on. we have no other alternative. but israel does not want us as mediators, as has been said repeatedly. perhaps you will be accepted and welcomed there again, and you will be able to put forward our policies and our proposals, which is something we are rarely allowed to do. in the end, should we only finance projects which the israeli government will destroy with its tanks? i also think it is important to recognize a palestinian state; that will be the only way, as mr poettering has said. there is an elected president of this palestinian state, and neither we nor mr sharon can ignore him. he's the only one you can negotiate with. i don't think there are very many other negotiators on the side of the palestinians. i am sorry, mr high commissioner, that i cannot even share your modest optimism. for a year and a half, we have watched two completely unequal adversaries wage war. we see israeli tanks destroying houses and killing palestinian civilians, and we also see palestinian suicide bombers dragging completely innocent israeli citizens to their deaths. we condemn all acts of violence and terrorism. but what good is that? we're not getting anywhere. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the bombings of israeli civilians in the middle east these days are destroying the coalition capacity of the moderates. i see a difference between indiscriminately killing civilians, pursuing potential attackers, and, on the other hand, setting a seven-day deadline that invites radicals to destroy the many opportunities for talks in time. we see this in the israeli settlement policy, which continues, and in the situation on the arab-palestinian side, which continues to leave refugees without prospects and uses them as a weapon, that continues to play with the idea of returning them to their original places, and thus calls into question the viability of the state of israel itself. we also see this in the destruction of infrastructure in palestinian territory, in areas which have nothing to do with the fight against terrorism but which, as commissioner patten rightly said, destroy prospects for development. for these reasons, we must make it clear that we as the european union must seek a new approach, and, mr high commissioner, it is perhaps not right that you should go there in a serious capacity in one week and the american representative in the following week. it's like this swinging back and forth, and we can't get any further. why don't you go together, even in the same week, to make it clear that this is a joint european and american initiative, which makes it clear that we cannot let them continue like this? the two of them must go together and bring money to give prospects and at the same time guarantee safety. we must find a new starting point. we will not succeed with the method we have used up to now, but we will succeed - and i would like to address this to mr sakellariou and others - not by adopting resolutions which involve unilateral debt write-offs, because then we will also destroy the possibility of being mediators. (applause from the centre)
the commission - mr president, i have the pleasure of presenting, albeit briefly, the draft vehicle block exemption regulation which the commission adopted this afternoon. this parliament is aware of the rather serious limitations on the practical operation of the current block exemption regulation, which is due to expire next september. consumers are not getting enough benefits, particularly when they want to exercise their right to a single market. the existing rules also hinder the development of new methods, including distribution via the internet; finally, access to technical information by independent repairers must also be improved. we have therefore drawn up, and the commission has adopted today, this draft block exemption regulation, the main elements of which i would like to briefly describe. the underlying motivation is that the new system must be stricter than the existing regulation and must allow for more competition in the sales and after-sales markets. what are its main features? first, as regards the sale of new cars, flexibility and choice are the key terms of the project. when designating their own distributors, car manufacturers will be able to choose between a selective distribution system or a system based on territorial exclusivity and will no longer be able to combine the two systems. both systems will enable the car manufacturer to ensure that the members of its distribution system are qualified and that its distribution network covers all areas of europe, thus ensuring full coverage of the territory. in both cases the rights connected with the single market will be much, much better protected than they are today. with exclusive distribution, distributors will be assigned to a specific geographical area, such as a city, in which no other distributor will be allowed to open a showroom or to make active sales. the exclusive dealer may, however, sell to any potential buyer who comes to his shop. this also applies to independent retailers, so-called grey retailers. such retailers could be, for example, supermarkets and would take advantage of price differences to buy cars in countries where prices are lower and then resell them in member states where prices are higher, thus helping to create a true single market. if, on the other hand, the houses opt for selective distribution, the distributors will be able to advertise, send personalised letters and e-mails to consumers throughout europe, or even go to them. however, consumers may still encounter difficulties in their dealings with a dealer in another member state, in particular with regard to direct and simple contact with the dealer abroad, payment of invoices and arrangements for the delivery of the vehicle. we therefore felt that a more radical approach was needed to achieve greater integration of the markets, giving consumers a real possibility to buy cars abroad. a car dealer must be able to open sales or delivery points closer to the place of residence of consumers, including those in other member states. in practice, this means that, for example, a volkswagen dealer in amsterdam could open a showroom in the uk and sell the volkswagen golf there at the dutch retail price, which is 23% lower than the uk retail price. this measure will clearly create the market conditions to reduce the considerable price differences that exist for passenger cars in the european union. there is also a consumer demand for multi-brand retailers. the draft regulation makes multi-brand sales much easier. the only acceptable condition is that models of different brands are displayed in different areas of the same showroom, in order to avoid confusion between brands. this type of display is already used in car shows with general satisfaction. the draft regulation also aims to reorganise the existing link between sales and after-sales services by allowing specialisation. distributors will be able to choose to provide after-sales services themselves, as retailers currently do, or they may subcontract to one or more authorized repairers. these repairers must meet all the quality criteria set by the vehicle manufacturer. the block exemption also makes the work of intermediaries much easier: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives from consumers. all these factors give distributors greater flexibility to organise their activities in line with market conditions, exploiting new commercial opportunities and thus strengthening their independence from producers. a further way of making dealers less dependent on producers is to require the latter, i.e. the producers, to give adequate reasons for decisions to terminate distribution contracts. if the distributor does not agree with the reasons given, he may have recourse to arbitration or to a court of law. in addition, the commission decided in this draft regulation that a reasonable period of notice should be given for termination of the contract. this period is normally two years. all these measures ensure that distributors can take full advantage of the new opportunities offered by this proposal for a regulation. i should like to say a word now on the question of after-sales services, which is also very important. the new proposal for a regulation aims to ensure that consumers have a real choice and can turn to both authorised repairers and independent operators. in the interests of the safety and reliability of all motor vehicles - and we have stressed this very strongly - we must ensure that all operators can compete with each other in all sectors, without this being to the detriment of the quality of the service offered, which must remain at the highest level. the new regulation allows all car manufacturers to establish the quality criteria which must be met by all repairers wishing to be authorized repairers. producers can therefore ensure that the members of their network meet high quality standards. this will prevent new entrants from being excluded from this market, and they could now be appointed as authorized repairers, provided they are prepared to comply with the criteria set by the vehicle manufacturers. the proposal also provides for the benefit of dealers whose contracts have expired, who can continue to operate as official repairers of their brands as long as they meet the quality criteria. the overall level of technical competence in the market is therefore increased and a dense network of official repairers is maintained throughout europe, which will contribute to high quality of service and road safety. it is also possible to foresee that the proposal will have positive effects on employment and on small and mediumsized enterprises. the proposal aims to increase the competitive position of independent operators in the after-sales services market. given the increasing complexity of motor vehicles, it is important that independent repairers have better access to all necessary technical information, including diagnostic equipment, equipment and training. any discrimination between official repairers who are part of the network and independent repairers is therefore unacceptable. the proposed changes will also encourage the use of cheaper spare parts of equivalent quality, and thus repair work will be less costly. i would like to conclude, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with a word on procedure. the next procedural step is the consultation of the european parliament and the member states and the publication of the draft regulation in the official journal. this will allow the commission to receive comments from all interested parties before adopting the definitive regulation. the whole procedure should be completed before next summer. i shall also be particularly pleased to present the draft regulation in greater detail to parliament's committee on economic and monetary affairs on 19 february and to continue the fruitful dialogue already begun with members of parliament, in particular with mr konrad, who is your rapporteur on the subject, and with the president, mrs randzio-plath. i think, mr president, that we have dealt with a complex subject: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if we want the citizens of europe to really see themselves in the construction of europe, we cannot allow such a fundamental part of the single market as the single market for motor vehicles to continue to be non-unique, and this is to the detriment of consumers.
- mr president, commissioner monti, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, mr monti, thank you for putting this proposal before parliament. we are very happy and grateful that you have come to strasbourg with this proposal for the first time. i welcome - this has also been made clear in the discussions in the committee on economic and monetary affairs - many of the points in this proposal. i mention the area of multi-brand distribution, i mention the area of genuine spare parts, i mention the area of access to technical information, i mention the liberalisation of the separation of service and distribution, but i have a question concerning the rules on freedom of establishment in the internal market. we have a regulation called gmo, and that's the headline. this means that a regulatory framework with a time limit should continue to exist. i appreciate that. the content is liberalisation, if it is maintained that each trader, although limited to a single country, can set up as many branches as he wishes in the eu internal market. this is a counter-measure, a relative measure. we have to discuss this. that is my first important question in this context.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president! - what is it? mr commissioner, today the world - well, let us not say the world, but the eyes of europe - have once again looked at you, at your field of activity, but it was a different matter from the one we are dealing with here tonight. it doesn't seem that interesting. i have just heard that i am allowed to speak for eight minutes because my group has not shown much interest in this. but i see mr evans, i see mrs riis-jørgensen, and we can do what we have already done in the committee, namely to exchange views on this matter. but, funnily enough... we have set ourselves the ambitious goal of making the european union the most competitive region in the world within the next 10 years. if the european union is to be the most competitive region in the world, then its companies must be the most competitive in the world. this also means that we need a competitive environment in the european union. it is therefore right that we should aim to reduce state aid to enterprises as far as possible and that we should also - if we are to grant aid - aim to increase its horizontal allocation. in this respect, the decline in aid between 1997 and 1999 is also to be welcomed, and that is the period covered by the commission's ninth aid report. the commission is, of course, still required to continue its role as watchdog against aid which distorts competition. on the other hand, we should not view aid policy through ideological glasses, but rather operate it from ideological perspectives. sometimes people do that in this house, and i'll give you an example later. whether you want to or not: the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. you can't do that all the time. it is sometimes more sensible to achieve something through regulatory law, but it is certainly also sometimes more sensible to achieve something through then market-compliant management. aid is an important part of the policy toolbox because it can correct market failures and reduce the wealth gap between regions in the european union. what we are doing to european regional and structural policy is also aid, although it is not the state aid we are going to discuss tonight, and it is a political instrument for the promotion of smes and environmental protection, research and development. i am particularly pleased, commissioner, that you or the commission have recently added the aid indicator to the existing aid register. that was a joint demand from parliament. this indicator of aid, which is at an early stage, can, in my view, become a tool for identifying trends and for assessing aid according to qualitative criteria, qualitative criteria as i have just said. i'll take that as a sign. it is not only the quantitative volume of state aid that must be taken into account for a comprehensive assessment, but we also need qualitative criteria and objectives which must also be taken into account. like i said, i called them. in some cases, they also justify temporary control measures, and in some cases aid can even eliminate existing market distortions in the medium term. i think the commission is much more open and more open - if you will allow me, mr evans, mrs riis-jørgensen - than the current conservative-liberal majority in this house. i note that in the general debate aid is always strongly rejected. you are the devil's own. if you ask their politicians, they will say something quite different on one or the other point. in this particular case, they do not want to know about such a general demonization. i want to give you the example of what i announced earlier: the commission has been examining for some time, with some satisfaction, the extent to which unlawful aid is being granted through tricks in corporate taxation. the commission is doing this on its own initiative because it is the right thing to do, but it is also doing it because it has been asked to do so. i have now formulated a passage in my draft report in committee which the commission is in fact supporting and which it intends to continue along this path. this was voted down by the majority in the committee. now, i want to give you the opportunity tomorrow to correct that mistake. my group will be putting this passage back in by amendment, as well as a few others. and please remember, this is a common policy that we have agreed upon. so you can correct your mistake again tomorrow from the committee, or you have to make it clear to the public that you do not really mean it when you talk about aid policy in detail. you'll have to think about that. i would also like to conclude by saying that too much praise for the commission is not very good either. we want to narrow that down a bit. i would like to make a point, commissioner, which i have already made in committee on a number of occasions. this is also linked to the issue of qualitative criteria, qualitative assessment and quantitative assessment. there is one area where they rightly point out that regional aid granted in the member states accounts for a very high proportion of total aid, well over half, i think 56% or more if i remember correctly. you conclude that this is the area where further aid reductions can best and most rapidly be achieved. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the matter, and if so, what is the commission's position on this matter? if we could have a debate on this next year, we would be a step further.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'common carrier'. - madam president, this is commissioner byrne. in the 15 years since the first bse cases were reported, we should have taken all the necessary measures and we should have got bse under control. when we in the committee on agriculture and rural development wrote our opinion and once again stressed that all member states should now carry out their controls properly, we meant, well, that must be stressed again. we could not have foreseen that it would then become as topical as we are now learning from german states, especially bavaria and rhineland-palatinate, that the tests were sloppy, that the examination was transferred to private companies that were not suitable for it. you're really touching your head! of course, we can say again: commission, you must be more aware of the supervision! but you can hardly ask for that anymore, because those people down there know what's important. bse is a dangerous disease! if you consider that they are still testing people from the age of 30 months, that is also a scandal. most animals that go into the slaughter chain are not tested. take the uk, where there's still no testing at all because animals over 30 months old are not allowed in the food chain. but of course we also need to test to detect the presence of bse in the animals that do not enter the food chain. the embarrassment of scientists studying sheep whose brains turned out to be bovine, of course, is not to say: yes, then there is obviously no danger in sheep. this danger exists in sheep, so we must check here too! as for the spread of animal meal, it is obvious that thousands of tons of infected or potentially infected animal meal are still roaming around the world, so that bse is spreading even further and then appearing in areas where we would not have suspected it. so you can see here, commissioner byrne, that a ban on feeding is clearly not enough. you also have to tell them where to keep the stuff and how to destroy it. as the committee on agriculture and rural development has made clear, the same applies to the feeding of dishwasher fluids, of food scraps, which have repeatedly brought us foot-and-mouth disease and plague, if they were fed untreated. that means that we cannot do anything here with a ban alone, but we must say where the stuff stays. if we had voted on the so-called breakdown report on the treatment of animal by-products 10 years ago, the bse pressure would of course not have been so strong. and if we had always had it, there would have been no bse. the same applies to the washing basin, to the food left over: if we had had a reasonable treatment of these food leftovers, there would have been no infection with foot-and-mouth disease and plague. we must have a system that says this for all countries. we must grant licences to those who have an economic interest in producing it and punish them by withdrawing their licences if they do not comply with the law. anyone who breaks the law will be banned from working because this is about the health of the people of our country! we must have the courage to show that toughness, otherwise we will be discussing - even in ten years' time - that there have been repeated failures. mr byrne, i want to confirm to you that the commission is not to blame for these recent failures. this is the responsibility of the member states. the commission has also done a good job in preparing the interim report or the proposal.
- madam president! - what is it? in many, if not all, countries of the european union, breaches of the general principles of food law provide a lot of headline news. although there was much misrepresentation and panic, the depictions have been instrumental in keeping such incidents alive. the violations of the bse test which have become known in recent days are failures of all those who have been working to introduce a high level of consumer health protection in food production, and i think there have been some. it is precisely because the public is so interested in the subject and because the recent incidents in the field of human health are preventable that the introduction of strict sanctions, as the report claims, is justified in order to finally prevent the outbreak of new bse cases. the european union should be governed by the highest standards in food production. this is the most significant statement in the white paper on food safety. the legal framework necessary for this, i understand, must be linked to a recognised early warning system by the countries, by designating products and publicly naming their manufacturers when there is a suspicion of a risk to human health. as a rule, public warnings are always warranted, especially when there is a suspicion of a broad distribution structure, which is always likely to be the case in the infinite food production chain. i think that the commission should be able to give a clear and precise answer to the question of the safety of certain products. the principle, which has been widely praised, is that controls on feed are the precursors to food control. the report goes quite far in its demands. the question whether the fact of withholding information in breach of a specific obligation will be associated with the same consequence as the fact of fraud to the detriment of the european community's financial resources will be shown in practice. the report is a good example of the need to respect existing prohibitions and regulations. in conclusion, i would like to say that mr olsson's report is timely and very close to the current situation. i do not think that it will be a programme to combat the next bse crisis.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the olsson report is not only a statement by the european parliament on the current situation with regard to bse, but it is also a look into the future. ensuring food safety is our goal. we have not reached that goal until our knowledge of this disease is complete. i therefore particularly support the call for the commission to provide the necessary resources to continue research into tse diseases. we need to know more about these previously unknown diseases and epidemics so that we can fight them more effectively. the hysteria in society, and especially in germany, is waning. people are eating meat again, and they're buying cheap again. it is necessary to clarify who in the european union will bear the costs of additional requirements such as tests and examinations. the conditions must be the same in the member states. we must also ensure that the rules are applied in the same way in all the member states. the tse regulation is to be strictly enforced and there are tougher penalties for failure to comply with it or for fraud. this applies to the production and feeding of animal feed as well as to testing, slaughter regulations and the disposal of risk material. animal feed is still under criticism and will remain so until we have the open declaration and can finally ensure through controls that only what is on it is in it. it is not possible that we should continue to destroy valuable materials for fear of fraud, misuse and confusion, while at the same time importing materials or feedingstuffs from overseas, for example, where we have no influence on production or composition. that is why i believe that the pursuit of openness, controllability and truthfulness must be at the forefront of our efforts - only then will we achieve credibility and trust. the ban on feeding meat and bone meal to omnivores must therefore remain in force until then. however, this means that the commission urgently needs to develop innovative methods of disposal and recycling, such as the production of biodiesel from tallow or fats. at least it must be made clear that slaughter waste which is not processed, waste water, grease and tallow must nevertheless be treated. we want to continue to raise awareness with this report and to call on the member states not to give up in their efforts to combat this disease.
- madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. public health and food safety are the main topics of this report. the feeding of infectious animal meal or fats is still considered to be the main cause of bse. in view of the poor experience with respect to the ban on the feeding of animal meal to ruminants, it is irresponsible to consider at this stage the lifting of the general eu-wide ban on animal meal. moreover, this would be incomprehensible to all consumers. any remaining stocks of animal meal and feed containing animal meal must be destroyed immediately to avoid cross-contamination of feed in the future. in this context, the animal meal still stored in other countries, some of which is infectious, also poses a particular danger. even the smallest amounts of this material are sufficient to cause infection. another reason to reject the lifting of the eu-wide feed ban. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of animals are respected. i welcome the strict requirement to carry out efficient bse tests in all member states and the call for the age of testing to be reduced to 24 months. the commission must also ensure that the open declaration of all ingredients in feedingstuffs is strictly enforced in all national states. in parallel, the ceecs need to establish food and feed safety monitoring systems that were already in place before accession. the rehabilitation of slaughterhouses is particularly urgent in order to ensure that hazardous materials are disposed of without delay in accordance with european directives. imported food must be as safe as food produced in the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat bse in the member states. the safety of food, including imported food, is a fundamental requirement for consumers who want to eat healthy. we have to take care of that!
the commission has already done so. i think it is indisputable that public health and food safety are a very important issue for all of us, for producers as well as for consumers. we are all talking about preventive consumer protection. i think that the commission has a duty to ensure that the commission is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i do not want to contribute to the current debate on bse by running behind the current zeitgeist. i am in favour of the strictest controls throughout the food chain, especially in view of the current events in germany. we also need the strictest sanctions for violations. i am now calling for bse testing for all animals from 24 months of age. when can we really expect definitive scientific findings on the subject of solitary disease? because if that were to happen, then i think we could say goodbye to the cloning of the entire animal population as soon as possible. the path of cohort killing is only an alternative until then. the feeding of meat and bone meal to omnivores will certainly remain prohibited for a number of reasons in the near future. until an open declaration of feed is introduced and until the processing of slaughter waste from healthy animals can be carried out safely, we will certainly maintain the current ban on animal feed. i would like to mention the wording in mr olsson's report: he also says, "in the next time". "in the near future" means to me that maybe in the future there will be a better way for all of us. let me conclude by saying that we can easily explain to any critical consumer that healthy meat on healthy bone is part of a good diet. the processed healthy bone in the animal meal, on the other hand, is said to be a danger to the omnivore. anyone can understand that. we could illustrate these points with countless examples. i believe that we, as politicians, must return to a more objective discussion.
- madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank mr olsson for his good, critical report, which does point out some difficult points. the basic concern we all share is, without a doubt, the best possible safety of our food, but our food should also be beautiful and taste good. to produce this food, we need farmers, we need agriculture, and we need the food industry. it still is. this fact gives us the arc of tension in which we are working on this own-initiative report. the report rightly points to a number of shortcomings. the most serious is probably the considerable difference in the implementation of community legislation, which naturally does not provide a common level of protection. i believe that the commission should and must be able to intervene here. everything must be done to ensure that the precautionary principle is respected. the importance of responsible controls is particularly evident in bavaria and rhineland-palatinate these days. the commission has therefore decided to make a clear statement: breaches of binding regulations are subject to strict sanctions. but where there is no scientific justification to date, i would advise a more cautious approach. i cannot agree with the following points: bse tests in the future at 24 months. the ban on feeding food scraps, even if they have been treated in accordance with current scientific knowledge. i also oppose the killing of the entire stock in a bse case. comprehensive food safety is in dire need of more research. we need well-trained, well-managed, motivated and - most importantly - socially recognised farmers, and these farmers need a fair price for their product!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the report and also for his commitment to climate protection over the last few years. i would also like to thank the commission, and in particular commissioner wallström, who has done everything to ensure that we can now discuss concretely the ratification of the kyoto protocol and that, thank god, it can now be taken up. we can only say yes or no to the kyoto protocol tomorrow, but that we have the chance to say yes to a comprehensive set of agreements has taken a lot of work. i thank all those who have contributed to this. the kyoto protocol has been and will continue to be strongly criticized. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. i am quite frank in saying that burden sharing is a matter of criticism and that anyone who says that burden sharing is unfair is right. but no one is cutting too much, all the member states are cutting too little. the scientists tell us very clearly that if we want to stop climate change, we need to reduce greenhouse gases globally by 50 percent. and if we assume that the developed countries have to cut by more than 50% in order for the developing countries to have any chance of achieving a certain amount of prosperity, then that shows the magnitude of the task and the smallness of the discussion among the member states about this very modest first step. india produces one ton of co2 per capita, the member states of the european union produce about 10 tons on average. in this context, it is bad enough that some member states in the eu are allowed to increase their emissions, and that member states, such as the one i come from, which pollute very, very much, complain that they now have to reduce relatively much. the kyoto protocol is only a first step, and many more steps must follow. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
- madam president! - what is it? it is remarkable how the european parliament is in agreement on this issue across the countries, across the political groups, and the commission and the council are of the same opinion: we want to ratify kyoto. i hope that we shall be able to achieve the greatest possible majority, perhaps even unanimity, on this question in the vote tomorrow. this has cultural significance, because for the first time since the second world war, if i understand this correctly, europe would be taking cultural leadership on an important issue. in the past, we have always followed the americans, five to ten years apart. this time europe would have really moved on. i appreciate that. but few people are aware of what this ratification means. the signature is quick, but the implementation is extremely difficult. some have already pointed this out. i think it is all the more regrettable that we - the european parliament, which is directly elected by the people - are only consulted on this matter. it is a major economic transformation - and we are only consulted! i think that is extremely regrettable, although i must say that even if parliament were to vote in favour of kyoto, i would say yes, and i assume that my colleagues would say the same. i would also remind you that we are acting on the basis of the precautionary principle, which has now been incorporated into our case law. if we do not act, we may even be sued for our inaction before the european court of justice and forced to ratify kyoto. this agreement has its advantages. we are putting pressure on our industry and ourselves to develop products and processes that are as energy efficient as possible, and we are ultimately making ourselves competitive, although i do not want to hide the fact that there will be difficulties for some industries.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. mr president, we had the opportunity to congratulate you on your appointment on 15 january. i want to do this again. but i would like to congratulate you and express our group's appreciation for the way you have spoken. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which has been very helpful in this respect. that spirit has come over to us. we thank you for this and wish you success in carrying out this policy in practice during these two and a half years. mr president, you have said - and i have felt it with particular gratitude - that we should invite observers from the applicant countries to the european parliament, to our political groups, after the treaties have been signed. i think that is an excellent idea, which we have been advocating for a long time as the epp-ed group. we must make it clear that the political debate must not be dominated by questions such as when agricultural aid will be fully applied in the applicant countries, when certain other conditions will be met, but we must make it clear to the people in the applicant countries now: you are welcome in our community of values. that is why we want to welcome soon members of the national parliaments as observers in the european parliament, as participants in discussions, as personalities with whom we discuss the future of europe. we are fully behind you if you will soon put this into formal effect by means of decisions. you were right to speak of the strategic partnership in the mediterranean. you have spoken of human rights in this context. it is easy to speak of human rights in the abstract here in this house. we have been talking about terrorism for the last few weeks and months. my group is firmly in favour of the fight against terrorism. but we must be careful in the weeks, months and years ahead that we do not allow human rights violations in the name of fighting terrorism. (applause from the centre) that means we must speak out when human rights are violated. i will give a very specific example: chechnya. we cannot close our eyes to what is happening in chechnya just because we say we must fight terrorism. we cannot allow this to happen! (applause from the centre) you spoke of the interinstitutional balance. i am very concerned that some governments, for whatever reasons, are now trying to curtail the european commission's role as guardian of the treaties. our group - even if there is a dispute with a government on our side - will not allow the commission to be affected in its rights and powers as a crucial community institution. the commission is the guardian of the treaties! we encourage you to continue on this path with determination, madam vice-president loyola de palacio! we're on your side. you hear a lot about the convent. we'll be discussing this with the president this afternoon. i think we have to counter from the outset any impression that the convention should not play the leading role. we have a bureau and in the bureau three persons with special responsibilities: the chairman and the two vice-chairmen. we need the convention's working procedures. that is the new method, and you have expressed it. we need a way of working that is transparent, that is public. the convention as a whole must therefore be the focus of the work. the work cannot be delegated to the bureau or to the three chairmen, the chairman and the two representatives. the fact that the bureau has a leadership role is clear. but the rhythm of work - including the frequency of the convention's meetings - must be such that the convention leads the debate on the future of europe. as regards the question of the statute which you raised, our group supports the idea of giving us a statute of representatives. but we also say that the independence of members, their integrity and their dignity must be guaranteed, and legally we are the ones who draw up the statute for members. it's not the council! so in the end it is not a question of us saying yes to something that the council proposes, but it is we who make the proposals and then we have to come to a conclusion with the council. mr president, let me conclude by saying: you have just mentioned the report by mr karl von wogau on the proposals on financial services and the final report by mr lamfalussy, on which we voted yesterday. i think - and i say this to the council, mr ramon de miguel - that it was a good hour for the three institutions, for the commission, the council and parliament. if we see our task in the future in this way, we will achieve something. it is not just a question of who is doing more, the commission, the council or us as parliament, but we have a common task to take this europe forward. that spirit, mr president, is clear from your speech. we stand by you and encourage you to implement with commitment and consistency what you have said today during the two and a half years of your presidency. (applause from the centre)
mr president, i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. so it is about the stability pact issues. mr verheugen is said to have agreed with the commission's decisions in the commission, but then distanced himself from them in an interview with a german newspaper last sunday. i would ask you to consider a suitable procedure whereby we can hear a statement from commissioner verheugen before parliament or an appropriate body. that is my request, which i wish to make public.
- mr president, i have to go. on september 11th, i think we all woke up, and we all realized that we had to act now. i also believe that we acted on it. i myself come from germany. germany, spain and the united kingdom are examples of counterterrorism and have experience in this field. that's why i think we get along so well. that is why we have done our duty as a parliament and have always supported the commission and the council when they have taken meaningful steps and presented meaningful proposals. that's always been our attitude. the problem, mr commissioner, mr president-in-office, is that it is not just a matter of fighting terrorist organisations. since 9/11, it has also become clear that the fight against terrorist groups alone is not enough. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices, but that it is not left to the interests of the member states. in my country, germany, for example, there is an islamist group with 30,000 followers called milli görüs, or in berlin, the islamic federation. i believe that in some respects they are as dangerous as terrorist organizations, if they enjoy the right to teach islam in public schools and thus to brainwash young children. that is why i believe that an arrest warrant alone, the definition of terrorism alone, cannot suffice, and that is why we must also deal very intensively with the other causes of terrorism. i believe that our commissioner and the spanish presidency of the council are in a position to examine this danger very carefully. (applause from the centre)
in writing. - i did not abstain in the final vote because i would be opposed to the european arrest warrant, but more because i am opposed to the overly hasty procedure by which this case was dealt with.
- mr president, the european union is undoubtedly making a contribution to the fight against poverty, but as we all know, we are far from the stated objectives. the eradication of poverty, backwardness and ignorance must be the first priority in the fight against terrorism. the agenda is for a new world economic order, a change of policy, as demanded by over 60 000 participants at the second world social forum in porto alegre. argentina is a frightening example of where neoliberalism is going. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
- mr president, i have to go. every year, the united nations human rights convention meets in geneva, and every year, the chinese leadership puts pressure on its trading partners to prevent beijing's human rights violations from being brought up. a lot's different this year. the united states was not re-elected as a member of the human rights convention and has only observer status. the eu can no longer hide behind the americans. the plight of the tibetan people, the suppression of their religious and cultural life, the relentless persecution and detention for decades will not be forgotten. even if they are not constantly on the front pages of the newspapers, because these people are distancing themselves from all forms of terrorism, they are very much present. the european parliament called for recognition of the tibetan government in exile a year and a half ago if the negotiations between tibetans and the chinese under the auspices of the united nations did not lead to tibet's autonomy. a special eu representative for tibet could play an important coordinating role. in his great speech to our house in october, the dalai lama reiterated his concept of the middle way and called on beijing to negotiate directly without preconditions. it is therefore high time that the european union took action in geneva itself, tabled a resolution and won the support of responsible members of this commission. the chinese must not make a mistake. we welcome its membership of the wto and its contributions to the international anti-terrorist coalition. but there is no justification for their brutal treatment of religious and ethnic minorities in tibet, inner mongolia and east turkistan. the european hour, mr commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, is here! let us finally give substance and life to our commitment to the unconditional respect of human rights. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. the role of national parliaments is fixed by the treaties, but the democratic deficit, which is essentially a deficit of control over the national government, has increased in the course of european integration. the lack of control and adequate information by governments often make it impossible for national parliaments to carry out their functions. this development must be stopped and the powers of control of national parliaments over their governments must be strengthened. i therefore support in particular the statements in paragraph 1 of the report. yes, there is also a need for better cooperation between national parliaments and our parliament, especially in the areas of union policy which are based on intergovernmental cooperation. i would like to emphasize one point in the report, as a member of the constitutional convention, namely paragraph 17. i do not support proposals such as that of the german foreign minister. the overwhelming executive is the problem. we need a thoroughgoing democratization and parliamentarisation of the european union, a clear constitutional strengthening of the existing parliaments, but not a new chamber.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the democratic deficit in europe is highlighted as a major problem. the fact is that the powers which the national parliaments have transferred to europe have not yet been fully transferred to the european parliament, the only european institution to which elections have conferred legitimacy. the responsibility for this lies with all the member states which have so far refused to transfer this competence in the form of co-decision in the legislative field to the european parliament as co-legislator. the governments thus acquire legislative and executive powers at european level which would be unthinkable in a national legal system. this is the real scandal of the democratic deficit in europe. we are also pleased that the heads of state or government have highlighted the relations between the european parliament and the national parliaments at the nice summit as one of the four themes for the forthcoming convention and the new intergovernmental conference. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this is the fundamental misunderstanding that mr berthu has made in his minority position. the european parliament must indeed seek to work closely with the national parliaments in order to force governments to act democratically. the two major groups in the european parliament are very much in agreement on this request, and i am grateful for the wording of mr gil robles, from our group, in the napolitano report, and also for amendment no 21 by our rapporteur. this shows the right way forward. each level must do its possible and appropriate. the national parliaments must and can exercise more effective and better control over their national governments than they have done so far. we want to encourage them to do so. this applies both to the action of governments in the council in drawing up european legislation and to the financial management and control of eu funds. the european parliament must monitor and shape legislation at european level. i can only conclude by saying that we are grateful for the report and hope that it will be taken seriously in the convention. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, the napolitano report is indeed an important step towards greater clarity in this debate on the role of parliaments in the eu and thus also an important step towards greater democracy in the eu. i believe that our aim is to establish a parliamentary democracy in the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. parliamentarisation of the eu means strengthening all the representative bodies vis-à-vis their executive bodies, both at national and european level. the debate on the respective roles of the institutions naturally requires intellectual and political clarity. some of you have mixed it up a little bit. we must distinguish between the levels at which the national parliaments play a role and those at which the european parliament plays a role. the parliaments have a common role in the constitution-making process. this is an original role of parliaments and not governments. we are therefore happy to have the convention and can be happy that more than two thirds of the convention members come from the parliaments. in the secondary law, in the legislation, on the other hand, we have the institutions. we have the european parliament and the council of ministers. i'm also saying we don't need a third chamber. it's not worth it. it just complicates the whole decision-making process. these ideas are not conducive to building public confidence; i simply doubt that. it is important to strengthen national parliaments vis-à-vis their national governments. there is still much to be done. so i think we should work together, make a deal. i thank mr napolitano for having brought more clarity with his report and for having achieved greater understanding between the parliaments with the hearings we have had here in parliament. i congratulate you on this report. i hope he gets a big majority! (applause from the centre)
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the aim of this own-initiative report is to analyse the problems encountered in the actual implementation of the structural funds and to make suggestions on how the management and effectiveness of the structural funds could be improved. this is particularly true in the light of the forthcoming revision of regional policy after 2006. the rapporteur has succeeded in highlighting the improvements achieved since the reform of the structural funds in 2000 and in drawing attention to the difficulties in using the funds, particularly the problems of delay in implementing the programmes. i would like to make a special reference to this. although one of the main objectives of the revision of the structural funds before 2000 was not to repeat the mistakes of the beginning of the 1994 programming period, but to enter fully in the first year, this was only partially achieved. the programme negotiations have still taken too much time. the guidelines presented by the commission were not always understood in the regions. there were delays in the negotiations, often due to the speed of the commission's processing and to long response times, sometimes due to new requirements from the commission. these, in turn, were reported from the regions as being of only minor importance. on the other hand, the member states have not always submitted the programme documents and the additional information requested in time. all these facts, mr president, which i had already mentioned as rapporteur in my own-initiative report of the same title in 1996, with the urgent appeal not to allow a delay in the start of the new planning period, as in 1994. let us now draw the right and necessary conclusions for 2006, otherwise such reports are in fact mere trifling. there shall be no breaks between the periods of the programme. i therefore support the rapporteur's proposal to consider whether the duration of project-oriented programmes and community initiatives should be separated and limited in future.
- mr president, i have to go. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his work, which has enabled us to see a good basis for the years ahead. i would also like to commend our own group, if i may, for having reached a consensus in a very intensive and sometimes hard-fought debate, and i think that is very important on this point. i want to focus on the essentials that are important to us. the first point is that we, commissioner, and you, are opposed to the renationalization of regional policy. that's our number one priority. there are efforts in some member states to bring this policy back to the national level. we are in complete agreement here that we reject this. the cohesion policy is a sign of european solidarity, and we do not want to lose it, but to emphasize it in the future. we are standing side by side, parliament and the commission. the second point is that we want more coherence. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. perhaps we can enter into a dialogue, including with commissioner fischler, on how we can achieve this, because otherwise the objectives we pursue for rural areas and the objectives pursued in agricultural policy for rural areas sometimes do not go in the same direction, and we have to work on this. it is also indisputable that a fall below the 0.45% threshold would jeopardise the cohesion objectives. but we must also become more efficient, and that is what has become very clear in the report by mr pohjamo, which we discussed earlier. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think there is no question that we will have to make a huge effort for the applicant countries, that there must also be a cohesion instrument to help them, and that is what you said in the interim report you presented last week. we must also bear in mind that the regions which have received aid so far must continue to be brought closer to the eu average. if we can achieve this balance, i believe we will also achieve greater acceptance for europe. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. point 1: this is the point where the rapporteur is usually praised. i am sorry that i cannot do that this time, because the rapporteur has not succeeded, and has not even taken the trouble, to develop a debate in committee which leads to a common position of parliament on the commission's proposals. i think that is a great pity, because we need a central report and a central opinion from parliament. the greens, on the other hand, have a clear position. they reject all attempts to maintain the status quo and to make exceptions. solidarity between the regions must remain the paramount requirement, while at the same time there must be no two-class europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in other words, phasing out is also an important instrument and it also feeds the current beneficiary regions. option 2 shows the problems and offers a solution, and that is why option 2 has our full support. but at the same time - and this is the next item - our group is opposed to the tactic in the commission of introducing the applicant countries too late into the management of the structural funds and then saving at the end. i find the proposal made last week scandalous. it saves cohesion policy rather than introducing it in the pre-accession process. we therefore call for the phasing-in of the structural funds now, the establishment of payment agencies now, and training in the management of the structural funds now, so that the structural funds are geared to decentralised structural policy rather than centralised project policy. sustainable development and local stakeholder participation must be a hallmark of future coalition policies, and this must start now.
- mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to congratulate mr musotto on his excellent report. i say this in the light of the harsh criticism from the greens, which i do not share. i would like to devote my contribution to the future of regional policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in other words, even if it is generally accepted that the regions in all the applicant countries must be given priority, the objective 1 regions of the present 15 member states, which lose their eligibility for funding only because of their relative wealth in an enlarged union, i.e. only through statistical calculations in the course of enlargement, should not be excluded from any support overnight. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for political and economic reasons, future cohesion policy cannot focus exclusively on the regions with the greatest development lag, but must also take into account the advantages and disadvantages of urban areas, areas of socioeconomic change, regions with permanent natural disadvantages and a cross-border dimension. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the current limit of 0.45% of community gdp should therefore not be lowered - as has been repeatedly stated this evening - so as not to jeopardize this cohesion policy. we have not yet exhausted our possibilities here. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. i therefore think it is inappropriate to make a precautionary call for more funds now.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the epp group fully supports the report by our rapporteur, mr hatzidakis. we believe that, while we support the commission's proposal in principle, we want to make some changes in certain points. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the road is not compromised by the lack of safety standards. we need speed limiters, and in principle also for smaller vehicles, because the experience with speed limiters in heavy goods vehicles is good. that is why we need european regulations, because these trucks go everywhere across borders. however, madam vice-president, we must introduce the rules in a more differentiated way and with longer deadlines, because we are also dealing with the large economic burdens that are imposed on small and mediumsized enterprises. we should therefore be more generous in the transitional arrangements, so as not to place too much burden on the economy. finally, i would appeal to the social democrats and to our colleague hedkvist petersen - she is a great expert on road safety: madam president, we need - and this is what amendment no 12 calls for - a differentiation of speeds between small and large lorries! we therefore ask you once again to support our amendment no 12 so that we can allow a speed of 110 km/h for small commercial vehicles. if we limit all trucks to the same speed, we're actually programming the traffic jams on the highways! we must allow smaller vehicles to overtake to ensure the flow of traffic. i would ask you to support amendment no 12 in that regard. we have a great legislation!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to go. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is always a pleasure to discuss an interesting and exciting subject at such a late hour. i hope the late hour won't degrade the project. it is the first major project to be designed jointly by the european institutions and esa, the galileo satellite navigation system. it is technically, economically and politically comparable to the airbus projects or the gsm mobile communications standard. this system will be a technological competitor to the existing american gps, which is good for european technology, but it will also be compatible - i hope, and we are making a point of it - and will be able to complement gps. the united states - i have heard - is quite concerned about developments in europe. this is not necessarily a bad thing, it simply means that we are on the right track, that we are going to make technological progress in europe with this system. it is certainly a technological competitor to the existing gps, but there are also possible synergies. we are aiming to use the same receivers for gps and galileo signals. this increases the utility of both systems. i would also like to mention the coordination between gps, galileo and egnos. this is something that is lacking in most discussions, but i think it is also an important point. the security aspects of this civilian project will be safeguarded, including a concern of the united states after the crisis of september 11 and in the conflict in afghanistan. the civilian nature of the galileo project, as well as the public control over it, will make any interference, disruption or abuse impossible. the broadband will be free of charge through a certain charge to the recipients. the use of gps is free of charge, and so will galileo. higher quality, more accurate services will have to be paid for to guarantee the refinancing of operating and development costs. but there will be a constant availability. i had the pleasure this afternoon of speaking to the representative of the us government in brussels, who reiterated his concern about the development of the project. i was able to calm him down, but i wasn't able to calm him down in the sense that we're completely submissive to the gps system. i made it clear to him that we were developing our own system, that we were seeking cooperation, but that we would continue to develop it and that we would not allow ourselves to become dependent on technology. i think that these requests for dialogue and these statements show that we are still on the right track. the member states have been hesitant for a long time, and i hope and have also received signals from some of the governments of the member states that, despite the certain problems they have with the price-waterhouse study, they will be enthusiastically endorsing this project in march. i hope it will come to that, and i think it's about time. we're already a few months behind, but we'll catch up. i would like to thank the commissioner once again for our conversation and for providing this document, which once again provides a fairly comprehensive explanation of what is going on with galileo and can dispel some of the suspicions or doubts. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think there's a great deal of agreement here in the house and in the past that we want this project, that we want it as a civilian project. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it will be feasible, it will be technically feasible, but it will also be politically desirable and feasible. but it is still a civilian system. the main problems were the discussions on how to involve the private sector in this enterprise. the commission proposal assumes that private companies will participate, including financially. the financial contribution is a symbolic act, shall we say? the financing of the development phase would be sufficient from public funds alone, but industry should be involved. i want that too! i have not received any clear signal from industry that they are in favour of the commission's proposal and are joining the joint venture. my proposal to set up the development and promotion corporation, which is being set up in parallel with the joint venture but is closely linked to it, offers a compromise, a way out of the dilemma. the signals from the business world are mixed - some are opposed to this, others are very open to this proposal. i have tried to reduce the obstacles to enterprises by simply proposing this and i hope that they will participate in the promotion society. i hope that we shall have a broad consensus on this tomorrow. i regret that i cannot support the ppe's proposals, which are based on the commission's proposal and which, in my view, provide industry with yet another reason not to join.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on regional policy, transport and tourism. - mr president, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am grateful to mr glante for his efforts in drafting this report in this form and for his comments. the ppe proposal, which you cannot support, will be discussed by mr radwan as your shadow rapporteur. for several years now, europe has been working on its own satellite navigation system, but it is only a wish. no decision has been made yet. it is precisely in the case of galileo that everything is weighed a thousand times, every euro is turned over three times, while in other areas the european purse is much more loose. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. this is what europe's image is going to be if we are not careful! but i want a modern europe, technologically at the forefront, literally at the forefront of the world. this is where europe can play its cards: these are economic power, innovation, technological capacity and vision. i do not want to make any apocalyptic predictions here, but i am convinced that without galileo europe will completely lose its position in an important sector and fall so far behind that it will eventually become impossible to catch up. if we fail to launch galileo and finally open the doors to new technologies, if we fail to provide the necessary means to do so, we will be laughed at all over the world and in space. why am i telling you this? we need a clear yes to galileo and a competitive alternative to gps! the council wanted galileo to be launched as soon as possible with the participation of industry. the commission has put forward a proposal which parliament has examined very carefully. there has been and is a lot of criticism of the proposal from various quarters, and i think there may have been some failures on the part of the commission. we have identified some areas of concern in the committees. however, the participation of industry in the joint venture - either directly or through the development company - must not be so high that it leads to the failure of galileo. europe needs galileo, or as the commission puts it in its information: galileo is indispensable for europe! i therefore hope for a clear vote in parliament and a large majority tomorrow.
- mr president, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i too would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his good cooperation. we are on the same track as galileo, we are all on the same page. i would also like to thank the commissioner in advance for her tenacious advocacy and even for her fight for galileo in the council. galileo is a strategic project for the future, economically, technologically and politically. it's been done before. we should remember in europe that we were told decades ago that we did not need an airbus, we did not need a rocket industry. you could do all this for us. where would we be today if we hadn't developed the airbus, for example? but i would like to make two specific comments on mr glante's report: i think it is essential that industry is actively involved in galileo today. it is not enough to find beautiful words about the importance of galileo, but we need a clear commitment from industry to galileo. we must start today to develop services so that in future there will also be products on the market which will then finance galileo, as we - both sides - want: hence very clear support for the commission's proposal in this direction. but perhaps we should consider reducing the starting amounts a little. a second important point for me is the political dimension of galileo. we want a common foreign and security policy in europe. we have the rapid reaction force, and we want to send our soldiers to crisis centres in the future. here, too, it is necessary that we take responsibility for our soldiers, which means that we have our own information systems and are no longer dependent on third parties. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. so tomorrow, we shall be hearing from this house a clear call to the council to opt for galileo, a clear call for the future of europe! we have an alternative proposal: if galileo fails in the council, we may have to think about defence budgets, but i am of the clear opinion that we should first try to ensure that it remains a civilian product.
the commission has already done so. i would also like to thank mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou for her good analysis and excellent cooperation in the preparation of this report. i think we can also go back to the beijing world conference on women. the commission has already taken the initiative in this area, and we have already had the right tools in the meda programme. i must say that we do not have the statistical data to make a precise, more precise analysis. the report on the accounts, for example, lacks data and no progress indicator has been set yet. why has there not been a single regional programme devoted exclusively to women in meda i and meda ii? why is the democracy clause not more strictly applied when women's rights are flagrantly violated, as in the case of genital mutilation? the valenciano martínez-orozco report gives some important clues in this respect. why is fundamentalism not being taken up further? but i ask the other groups to have the courage to bring this up in the house and not actually prevent the debate in the bureau. i wonder: why are women denied education in so many countries? the trend is negative. in rural areas in particular, up to 60% of women are excluded from education, including reproductive health. why do our member states not, for example, give the red card to illegal trafficking in human beings on the question of immigration and asylum? in my own member state, for example, the recognition of non-state persecution or of gender-based persecution as a ground for asylum is being drawn into the electoral campaign, and the good approaches we have in our immigration law are thus ultimately being denied to women in the mediterranean. i think we women need to work together more. the report sets a good example in this respect. we need to have more women in positions of power not only here but also in the partner countries, and the european union - i stress this again - must focus its cooperation instruments even more on women, in the sense that if we empower women through the democracy programme, if we open up dialogue, it is to the benefit of all of us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. it is hard to believe that in the european union between 10% and 20% of people are unable to understand and use printed matter and documents. i am happy to admit that i am not able to complete the forms for my german tax return without professional help, let alone actually fill in an application form for a european grant project. but this is certainly not the kind of document that is the subject of this report. people with reading and writing difficulties are restricted in their participation in social life and are forced to work in low-skilled and thus poorly paid jobs to earn a living. in the age of the information society and lifelong learning, it is a duty, for economic but above all for ethical and moral reasons, to protect people from this fate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the rapporteur, mrs hermange, has done this in this report in as much detail as is necessary and in as little time as possible. the european legislator must, however, confine itself to promoting and supporting measures in this task, because education and training are the responsibility of the member states and should remain so. it is the sole responsibility of the member states to ensure that the right to education, as enshrined in article 14 of the charter of fundamental rights, is now also realised. the work of the observatory requested in the report should be carried out in the existing centre for the promotion of vocational training - cedefop - in thessaloniki, with the resources available there. this is reasonable for cost reasons and because of the proximity to the tasks cedefop has in any case. i therefore ask you to support amendment no 5. i would also like to sign and support a european year of the book or of reading, given our young people, who are often television-savvy.
the commission. - mr president, today's report on illiteracy is a very important contribution to the major issue at european level, which is the consideration of basic skills, i.e. literacy and functional numeracy, as a prerequisite for social inclusion, as a prerequisite for the european union to achieve the lisbon objective of becoming a knowledge-based economy. we are certainly in a new phase, where basic skills are not only limited to reading and writing, but are skills of the information society technology, technological culture, entrepreneurship development, foreign languages, interpersonal communication skills and participation in society. and, i would say, all of this in this day and age can be summed up in two simple words. i have to learn, to learn. the commission's policy in this field is expressed in a series of initiatives and programmes which are currently under way as a result of the cooperation of the council, parliament and the commission. i would first like to refer to the request of the council in lisbon in 2000 for the commission to draw up a report on the specific future objectives for education and training systems. this report was presented in stockholm and a work programme on the acquisition of basic skills by all is now being prepared for presentation in barcelona. and this, the acquisition of basic skills, is one of the 13 key objectives in the european union's education and training systems. this objective includes the establishment of indicators to measure over a period of 10 years the extent to which member states ensure the acquisition of knowledge and the ability to use numerical, reading and writing skills by all citizens. it is the first time that a specific indicator will be able to reflect developments in this field over a decade. secondly, i would like to refer to the commission communication of november 2001 on the realisation of a european area of lifelong learning, which stresses the acquisition of basic skills as a prerequisite for lifelong learning. thirdly, i will refer to the forthcoming action plan on skills and mobility in the european union which will be announced by the commission next week, by president prodi and myself, with a view to achieving a genuine european labour market, with conditions of mobility and a minimum level of common skills at european level. the fourth point is the community strategy to combat social exclusion. you know that at the heart of the national action plans in most countries there is a direct link between social exclusion and the acquisition of basic skills. both the equal programme and the social fund provide funding for programmes relating to access to basic skills, particularly for discriminated groups. and let us not forget that particular groups have much greater problems in acquiring basic skills, such as people with disabilities or immigrant groups. the fifth point is the level of international cooperation, the international strategy. the european commission is working with the oecd, the asem, the g8 to support the immediate promotion of key skills on their respective agendas. more specifically for the report, and particularly as regards the application of the open method of coordination, as i mentioned on the subject of the strategy on exclusion, it can be considered that this point has been accepted, that the method for open cooperation and for common objectives in education and training systems is something that is expected to be approved by the education council at its meeting next week. on the subject of the green paper, i would like to express some reservations, particularly because it is estimated that many new policy initiatives have been launched, that important things are under way in different councils and that we are now in a position to take action in the area of literacy and perhaps it would be an additional delay to proceed with the green paper, given that we already have most of the data from the work done in previous years. i come now to the recommendation to the member states on literacy and access to basic skills. i would like to stress here the need to respect the principle of subsidiarity and the particular care with which we must approach the question of education systems, where responsibilities are exclusively national. the open method of cooperation is therefore a very good tool for member states to add value through indicators and the exchange of good practice. the european monitoring centre for illiteracy, i would like to say, is a proposal by members of parliament for the need to use existing institutions such as cedefop, but also to refer to existing programmes such as the oecd pisa programme, which provides some initial answers. we should say that before we create new tools we should be sure that we are using the existing ones effectively. finally, as regards the proposal for an annual report on illiteracy in parliament, we shall examine the best way of effectively informing parliament and we shall see to what extent parliament can make use of reports on national action plans on social inclusion, as well as reports through the open method of coordination, that is to say how in existing media, in reports which are anyway made on an annual basis, how we can make use of this dimension as well, so that the information provided is multiplied and more effective.
thank you very much, madam commissioner diamantopoulou! the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon.
the agenda calls for the report (a5-0004/2002) by mrs hermange, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the communication from the commission to the council, the european parliament, the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions on the scoreboard for the implementation of the social agenda (com (2001) 104 - c5-0536/2001 - 2001/2215 (cos)).
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i should also like to begin by congratulating mrs hermange and thanking her for this good report, which is as good as the one before it. we share her analysis, but we also share her criticism, which she has expressed in the report. i would also like to thank you, commissioner, for your ideas on the barcelona summit. i have already told my group of visitors from bad hersfeld this morning what a commitment you are making. parliament, and my group in particular, has given its strong support to your agenda, but we are now also awaiting concrete proposals and initiatives, action plans and also directives, mrs smet. it's not going to work without guidelines. we should of course make greater use of the new method of coordination, particularly in discussions with the applicant countries. i think this is a great tool to involve these countries now and also to give them the opportunity to tell us about their current concerns and needs and their achievements. i do not share mrs smet's view that these applicant countries are lagging behind in all these respects. i think we urgently need a reform of the european works council directive. if you have problems in your own house, madam commissioner, you can take the excellent report of parliament from last autumn. we must also make social policy preventive, and not just when the child has already fallen into the well, so to speak. the scandal surrounding the long-distance drivers in luxembourg is only the tip of the iceberg. we should perhaps take the luxembourg prime minister's word that there is an urgent need for action by the european union. the spanish presidency is unfortunately a little hesitant, but parliament is fully committed to supporting you, commissioner.
the commission. - mr president, i should like to say at the outset that this report is a positive contribution to improving the use of an important tool. as mrs smet said, it is very important to note that this is the first time we have a social policy instrument at european level, a tool which has been achieved after very difficult and sensitive negotiations. the report and the comments made by the main speakers deal with three issues: substance, time and procedure. as regards substance, i would like to recall that the commission stressed the need for a binding social agenda in the spring of 2000, and for six months, in very close cooperation between the commission, the french presidency and parliament with mrs van lancker, a very important political preparatory work was carried out so that, for the first time, the heads of state in nice agreed on a long-term five-year social agenda. the commission has a specific mandate to implement this social agenda and each year it announces its programme so that the commitments are completed in 2005. i would like to remind you that in october 2000 i presented to the committee on employment and social affairs the results of the first year of implementation of the agenda. the efficiency, the agreement between commitments and implementation was 100%. in october 2001 i again presented to the committee on employment and social affairs a table of the 2001 actions, where again the agreement between commitments and results was 100%. the question is: is this agenda stable or is it being enriched by new elements along the way? the commission is very much - i would say absolutely - committed to the social agenda as it was voted in nice and on the basis of the agenda agreed in 2000. in the course of this, in 2003, we committed ourselves to revising it, and in that, of course, i agree with the report that parliament must play a very important role in order to make it possible to adjust it. the second point concerns time. firstly, there is a need to submit the report on the agenda and the commission's synthesis report for the spring council together. this always creates a time problem, which we will try to solve. secondly, the report criticises the results of the first year of the agenda, as mrs hermange says in her report, where we cannot but take into account that it took two months after the nice decision to submit the report in question. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a good example of the need to ensure that the directive is applied in all member states. secondly, it can only refer to the broader view of the participation of all actors in the past and the expectations for the future, and these actors are of course the social partners, but also women's organisations, civil society organisations, as described by the honourable members. the third point is that the stability and coherence of the agenda is not dogmatic, that is to say that where there are emergencies, new elements that create problems at the social level with social implications, we should intervene. as was recently the case with the restructuring initiative - it has already been mentioned by one member - in one year we had 350,000 redundancies due to business restructuring in the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. ladies and gentlemen, i can assure you that this report, and very close cooperation with the committee responsible, can lead to a continually improving performance of the implementation of the social agenda, which, i will remind you again, is a completely new tool, and which close cooperation will help us to make better.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon.
i have an oral amendment to amendments nos 10 and 16, which are identical. the point is that the original text states that the joint venture is to be based wherever it is exempt from taxation. this is not possible, of course, for competitive and comparable reasons. the text should therefore be replaced by the following, in agreement with the political groups:
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not it is the first time i have spoken in a vote. i want to make it really short, too. i thank the european parliament for the clear signal it is sending to the council and i hope that the council will give its clear approval to this project in march this year and that we will finally get on with it! (applause from the centre)
madam president, december 13, 2001 was a dark day, not only for india-pakistan relations. the attack by radical islamic terrorists on the indian parliament was an attack on the very heart of the world's largest democracy, the institution of freely elected representatives and the multiethnic society. since then, there has been a massive mobilization of troops and a threatening buildup of weapons systems. there is a great risk that extremists will gain access to these weapons through raids. the attack on the american cultural centre in calcutta, allegedly by militant muslim fundamentalists, has further exacerbated the situation. for years, pakistan has been suspected of harboring islamic extremists and providing them with logistical and material support. but now it was acting on the orders of president musharaf. some 1,500 suspects have been detained and some 400 offices of islamic extremist organisations have been closed. that gives us hope. by joining the international anti-terrorist alliance, the military chief has undoubtedly brought his country out of isolation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat terrorism. it is very desirable that the taliban fighters hiding in pakistan be uncovered and arrested. the radical islamic religious schools, which are a spiritual breeding ground for the taliban, need to be restructured in terms of organisation and reformed in terms of content. most importantly, the reasons for the still prevailing sympathy for the taliban and their glorification as freedom fighters are being investigated in large parts of the country. an intense mental examination is needed. to do this, public education must be made a priority. people who have acquired self-confidence and critical thinking through a good education will also be able to resist all kinds of dictatorship and manipulation. freedom of religion for minorities must be accepted in pakistan. we are reminded of the recent massacre during a christian church service. the islamic terrorists responsible have still not been caught. discrimination against christians - including by official bodies - must be a thing of the past, as must persecution of other religions. india's demand that pakistan expose and extradite the men behind the attack on the indian parliament is justified. but it takes a lot of patience to make it happen. the indian missile tests are an inadequate means of pressure and a provocation which is counterproductive. the ppe group calls on both parties to the conflict to combat the crisis situations by all means of diplomacy. we must see to it that military force is avoided. as vice-president of the saarc delegation, i am concerned that pakistan finally ratifies and implements the saarc declaration on the suppression of terrorism. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european union can play a very well-accepted mediating role. this is something that all parties involved should want. we have won a lot of trust over the years by having a balanced policy. both states and the security needs of the entire south asian region are worth our commitment.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would simply like to emphasize the impressive description of the suffering of the population, as mrs maes has shown us. i would also like to mention a few other aspects which have more to do with the organization and also with the political environment. first, the question of organization. we hope that echo, the european union, will not be hindered by anyone in its aid operations and will be able to bring aid to the place as quickly as possible. we hope that this will not only apply to the city of goma, but also to the surrounding area. this goes to bukavu, where there are also refugees, this goes to rwanda and burundi, where there are also dispersed refugees. we must provide this aid to all those affected and we must do so quickly. that's the first point. the second point, of course, is that this again highlights the weakness of the state organization and the absence of the state organization in the congo. we need strong support for the peace process as soon as possible. we must help bring the various parties to their senses as soon as possible so that reconstruction in the congo is possible, so that administrative structures, but also democratic structures, are restored and so that this great country does not sink further into chaos. we have a great task ahead of us and the exemplary help we can give now may also be an incentive for the various parties to the conflict to listen to the european community and to use our mediation. (applause from the centre)
commission. – mr president, the commission notes the various concerns expressed by many honourable members at the legal implication of the united states decision to deny these detainees prisoner of war status under the geneva convention. we have all seen the photographs taken of prisoners detained at the united states military base in guantanamo and have read reports about their treatment. despite the uncertainty about their formal status there has been no proof that the prisoners are not being treated humanely. this has to be the fundamental question. the european union has a long-standing ongoing dialogue with the united states on human rights issues and in the field of justice and home affairs. in the majority of cases there is agreement between the european union and the united states. but where we disagree, for example on the death penalty, we put our case and discuss our differences frankly. i agree with those honourable members who believe that this issue strengthens the eu's argument in favour of the establishment of an international criminal court. we will continue to pursue this line of argument with our united states counterparts. the european union will continue to monitor the situation in guantanamo. we will do it carefully and will not hesitate to raise this issue bilaterally with the united states whenever appropriate. i would like to conclude by repeating what mr patten has already said in the tokyo conference of donors for the reconstruction of afghanistan. our main concept is justice for events, and this is the precondition to win peace as well as to win the war.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it's an honor for a small faction to start the row. i would like to begin by saying that without freedom of the press, democracy cannot flourish. we need to see this in the case of gregori pasko. it is a severe blow to freedom of speech in russia, a country that gave birth to perestroika and woke up in perestroika. it is a reminder of the suppression of free speech during the soviet era. that is why we are criticizing it, because the prosecution is still based on the secret military laws of the soviet union, which are not even registered with the ministry of justice itself. military personnel are forbidden to talk to foreigners. you can't shop anymore, because many of the traders in russia are from other countries. we therefore call on the prosecutor general, mr ustinow, to make this review very quickly. we remember the case of alexander nikitin, where the audit took sixteen months, and that in view of the fact that the accommodation of gregori pasko is extremely poor. he doesn't even have windows in his cell, and that's in the winter. gregori pasko does not want a pardon. i would like to point out to the commissioner that there are some strange false reports circulating. this isn't about an admission of guilt. he's right! he has the right to use free speech. i would therefore ask the commissioner to tell mr patten that this issue must finally be part of the eu-russia talks! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there are colleagues and forces who are inclined to impose stricter standards on a small country like madagascar, which we will discuss later, than on a large country like russia. we are obliged to do the exact opposite. russia is a member of the council of europe. russia has a special partnership agreement with the european union. we must therefore set strict standards for this country, even if it is powerful and if it is in our interest to have a partnership with russia, in terms of human rights. the russians have committed themselves to strict standards when they joined these organizations. they must now meet these strict standards. that is why what has happened to mr pasko is totally unacceptable! mr pasko is someone who has acted in the interests of the people of the european union, russia and the neighbouring asian countries by pointing out the dangers that threaten the russian people and all of us. mr pasko is someone who as a russian democrat, as an environmentalist and as a human rights defender deserves our full support. he fights for freedom of speech and the rule of law in russia. that makes him a patriot, unlike those who try to shut him up. therefore, it is our duty to be clear, especially in this case, and to demand that the secret laws, the military laws, the military courts disappear in russia and that mr pasko be released, not in the sense of a pardon, but by withdrawing the charges against him, a charge that is absolutely unfair and unjustified. we must also make one thing very clear: it is necessary to create conditions in russia so that there is once again an independent media in the country. the closure of tv6 is a blatant scandal! it is the culmination and cornerstone of a policy of synchronization being pursued by the kremlin and president putin himself. i therefore ask you to support this resolution.
the commission. - mr president, the commission, which is concerned about human rights, respect for democratic principles and the rule of law, expresses its particular concern and concern about the political situation in madagascar. due to time constraints and the election observation activities now in preparation, the commission is unable to send observers for the second round of voting, scheduled for 24 february. this is because madagascar was not on the commission's list of priorities for 2002, but also for reasons of its own. the european union is ready to support the electoral process. in particular, it was decided that the commission would send a team of technical experts to support the local observer consortium in the second round of elections in madagascar.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the run-up to the elections in cambodia, which were the first local elections in decades - this is progress after all - there was unfortunately an election campaign in which the media was manipulated and instrumentalized unilaterally by the holders of power, the state party. there was a wave of intimidation against the opposition parties, leading to countless violent deaths and mysterious murders. in this respect, these elections cannot be described as truly free, even if the electoral process itself appears to have been fairly correct on the whole, as our colleagues in cambodia have reported. however, we must register that there is still a great need to really root democracy in this suffering country, which has suffered more in the terrible twentieth century than any other country in the world. there is no country in the world where such totalitarian fury has taken place as in cambodia under the khmer rouge. that's why the wounds don't heal overnight. but we must nevertheless ensure that we set clear standards and that we promote the rule of law and democracy. and that's just through the municipalities. i therefore call on the commission and the council to systematically promote and support the newly elected local representatives, not only the representatives of the ruling party but also the representatives of the opposition parties, who must not be reduced to fig leaves, but are necessary so that this first weak step towards democracy becomes more than a propaganda show, namely a real democracy. that is why we need to train local politicians, to support local politicians, to give them access to the media, to promote free media. these must be the priorities of our future cambodian policy. we must also support forces like funcinpec and others to create a genuinely stable multiparty system in this country, which has suffered more than any other.
the commission has already done so. the commission report before us is more than necessary. it will have to do a lot of work in the member states. the rapporteur has put a lot of effort into the analysis, and i thank him very much for that. the directive, however, seems to me to be a kind of patchwork. there are too many gaps and national regulations are hammered in other places, allowing for individualisations which make the whole thing opaque. it is a question of worker protection in the truest sense of the word, which we have all agreed to. it is therefore necessary to call on the commission and the member states not only to adopt the definition and interpretation of certain terms but also to examine carefully possible deviations from certain legislation in order to avoid creating confusion which in the end produces the opposite of what was actually intended. the greatest uncertainty in the member states is about the maximum working hours, although clear limits are set out in article 6 and in article 18 of the final provisions. the possibility of implementing the directive also through collective agreements or agreements between the social partners is in principle to be regarded as positive. it must be carried out in the spirit of the directive, without any back door and without any possibility of evading it halfway. it is also urgent to define the concept of 'emergency services' more clearly and, especially after the ecj ruling, to enforce it in this sense. the luxembourg judgment has clearly highlighted a weak point in this directive, and it is regrettable that the commission has to fall behind. the koukiadis report will be a great help in the work ahead. i hope that we will indeed find the points raised by parliament in the future implementation of the directive.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask you, on behalf of all my colleagues in the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport, not to hold a coherent debate on culture, education and youth on thursday morning, as was planned, because these three subjects cannot be mixed. they have touch points, but they have to be dealt with separately. i would ask that these three subjects be dealt with at the same time as the joint debate, and i believe that we can get the house's consent to do so. (applause from the centre)
president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have the pleasure today of informing you of three important subjects dealt with by the commission. this speech needs to be clear but also needs to be a little analytical. so i apologize if this is going to be a little boring! the first item is the commission's political priorities for 2003. secondly, the commission's human and financial resources; thirdly, a reference to the convention which will be opening its work tomorrow. i shall start with the commission's political priorities for 2003, one of the most important steps in the organisation of our political life. this year, for the first time, the three main institutions will engage in an in-depth dialogue on the political priorities and the legislative and work programme for the coming year. the dialogue will be conducted on the basis of the new agreement presented to the conference of presidents on 31 january. we have set out three priorities for the coming year: the enlargement; stability and safety; a sustainable and inclusive economy. since its inception, this commission has focused on the full success of the enlargement process, and so enlargement remains a key priority throughout the second part of my mandate. in this respect, 2003 will be a very important year, as we must all be prepared to assume our responsibilities towards the new member states. we must be ready to welcome colleagues from the new member states to the commission and we must meet the new requirements. for the record: if we are to complete the negotiations in 2002, 2003 must be the turning point, in which we will prepare to ensure that enlargement is as good as possible on 1 january 2004. the commission therefore intends to take a number of measures in 2003: first, we must help the future member states to prepare themselves to assume fully all the responsibilities that come with membership. secondly, we must ensure that the commission fully complies with its obligations from the first day of accession. thirdly, we must rethink the community's policies. in the face of the most important enlargement in the history of european integration, it is imperative to ask ourselves what common policies the enlarged union will need. but to make enlargement a complete success, we must also give a very high profile to the other two priorities i mentioned above. the three subjects of today are in fact profoundly interrelated. first of all: stability and security. within the union our main objective is to accelerate the creation of a european area of justice, security and freedom. the fight against crime in all its forms - including terrorism, indeed, starting with terrorism - is and remains the first item on our agenda. i also believe that special attention should be paid to immigration in all its complex effects. on the external front, the extension of stability and security to the whole of the european continent and to the regions adjacent to the enlarged union is another of our priorities. for this, we must strengthen our partnership with our neighbours. the relaunch of the euro-mediterranean partnership must not only aim at the creation of a new market but also at the creation of a genuine community of good neighbours. to this end, we will continue to pursue our strategy of strengthening the barcelona process. in particular, in the economic field, we are aiming to develop joint initiatives and projects with the countries of the southern mediterranean through a new financial institution, around the eib - in particular, this morning we approved the hypothesis that it is an institution in which the eib has a majority - on the basis of the guidelines that the commission has adopted. we will spare no effort to contribute to the settlement of the conflict in the middle east, where the latest developments finally open a small window of opportunity after months of tragedy. we will also pursue the process of association and stabilisation in the balkans and, in the international arena, support the reconstruction of afghanistan. the third priority for 2003 is a sustainable and inclusive economy. i'm counting on a close-up. however, much also depends on the commitment of the union to implement the lisbon strategy. the external dimension of this strategy is particularly important as a contribution to the governance of globalisation, with the aim of distributing its benefits to as many countries as possible. in this context, the commission will be involved in several areas: firstly, the negotiations in doha will enter the crucial phase not this year but in 2003. we must also ensure that the kyoto commitments are implemented. finally, we must improve the global partnership between the north and south of the world and reaffirm europe's solidarity with africa in concrete terms. these issues will be discussed in concrete form in monterrey in a few weeks' time. the situation is certainly not the best, and we cannot be optimistic about finally making a serious commitment to the third world, but the commission is committed to acting in this direction. the second point today is the examination of the commission's financial and human resources. the annual policy strategy does not simply identify the main political priorities; it aims to ensure that the commission has adequate resources for its tasks. this is the commitment i made at the beginning of my mandate and it is taking shape, based on consistency between policy decisions, activities to be undertaken and resources. this commission has not made any commitments and will never make any commitments without the necessary resources. we must therefore commit ourselves - and this is the plan we are working towards - to the optimal use of human resources. we have used every means to improve the situation, namely productivity gains, negative priorities - and therefore tasks to be abandoned - and internal restructuring. at this stage, however, we cannot adequately prepare for enlargement without asking for more staff. there is no doubt about that: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. as is well known, the commission must also be ready to ensure the application of the acquis communautaire from the first day of accession. this means that we must complete all aspects of the preparation for enlargement by the end of 2003. the commission has therefore, after careful consideration, included in its annual policy strategy the request for 500 non-permanent staff, precisely to prepare gradually for enlargement. it is well known that the current ceiling on administrative expenditure does not provide sufficient resources for preparing for enlargement. that is why the commission considers it essential to make use of the flexibility instrument it has proposed. the request for 500 non-permanent staff for 2003 is part of an overall package of staff for enlargement and follows a careful analysis of all the activities that the commission will have to carry out in the future. the full results of this analysis will be presented in the draft budget for 2003 and will be discussed here. the other two priorities - security and sustainable economy - are also additional responsibilities for the commission. however, in order not to require further staff increase, we have decided to approve only those initiatives which can be carried out by internally redeploying the existing forces and/or phasing out other activities. this is proof of the seriousness and commitment with which we take on the commission's priorities without forgetting budgetary discipline: i am not going to go into the details of the budget, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commissioner for the budget is here and is prepared to admonish me if i do not respect this commitment. as regards financial resources, the commission and the budgetary authority must urgently find a more structural solution to the chronic shortfall in heading 4, which relates to external relations. the current rigidities do not allow for optimal action: in other words, we're wasting resources. the international developments of the past year, especially the events of 11 september and the subsequent war in afghanistan, have once again demonstrated that the union needs specific mechanisms to rapidly release the exceptional resources it needs in the event of intervention in crisis situations. this is of paramount importance if we are to really strengthen the voice of the european union in the world. the breakdown of heading 4 proposed by the commission therefore includes some crucial political priorities, such as afghanistan, the euro-mediterranean bank and the world health fund, without compromising other external actions. i therefore urge parliament and the council to tackle the problem of resources as quickly as possible because the actions i have listed cannot be delayed. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the presentation of the commission's political priorities for 2003 should not make us forget that we are on the eve of a truly historic event for the future of europe. tomorrow, for the first time, the convention will meet in this building, with the task of making proposals on europe in the 21st century and drawing up the draft of a future european constitution. the commission's role under the current treaties is to initiate legislation and to defend the general interest of the community. it is therefore natural that we should be sending a strong political message about the meaning of the convention and its objectives. first of all, i would like to point out that the convention was the result of a joint effort by the european parliament and the commission, and we should be proud of this effort, because the convention was not in everyone's mind a few months ago, or even a few weeks ago. (applause) i would like to thank the commission therefore welcomes the launch of a constitutional debate on the future of europe, which will involve a majority of elected representatives and no longer just delegates from national governments. i am pleased to note that the designated representatives are of the highest standard. the convention is not a tool to be used to dictate working conditions and methods. the convention is made up of men of the highest calibre who will manage the work themselves in an autonomous manner. i believe that not only will it do a free and extraordinary job but that, in the end, governments will not be able to ignore its results when it comes to approving the reform of the treaties. they remain sovereign, of course, but the work of this convention will be of enormous importance for the future of europe. the convention, of course - as we know - is open to contributions of ideas from civil society. in this way it will not be possible to say that the new treaty is the result of negotiations between diplomats and bureaucrats in brussels, of which the citizens are unaware. let us not forget that the desire for a convention was born the morning after the night in nice. it was born when you realized you couldn't go on like that. it was not born by chance, it was born in the face of the failure of a method. the commission intends to play an active role in the work of the convention, through the two commissioners appointed and through my personal and direct involvement. we are aware of the importance of the stakes and we know that europe is the only new event, the only serious institutional change that is being tried to bring about in this world. it is the only concrete attempt at democratic globalization in the face of so many words being spoken. however, we must also, through this convention, propose a common project for a society in which our citizens can recognize each other, and therefore we must decide immediately, at the beginning of the convention, what we want to do together, what kind of society we want to live in in the coming years. it is the european project of society which determines the means and the skills which the european union must have to achieve its objectives, not the other way around! we must therefore first think about what we want to do together and then adapt the institutional architecture to our objectives. we believe that the community method is still the appropriate instrument, the instrument which has differentiated and characterized the greatness of europe up to now. however, we cannot simply defend its validity in all its aspects in a conservative way, but we will propose innovative solutions to adapt it to the problems of tomorrow's europe. i am confident that the european parliament will support the commission in its search for solutions that guarantee efficiency and democracy in the european decision-making process. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i do not want to deal with the fundamental question of whether it is sensible to deal with such an important contribution by the president of the commission to the debate by the 'catch the eye' system. we'll have to talk about it some other time, i'm sure. mr president of the commission, we can of course agree with everything you have said. you have spoken of enlargement, and i ask you to consider - and perhaps you can do so later - whether it is possible for you in the commission to apply a system such as we want to introduce after the accession treaties are signed, namely to have observers from the acceding countries here in parliament. do you also see any possibilities for bringing personalities from the applicant countries into the commission as staff, as long as these countries are not yet members? then you spoke of the mediterranean. if it is true that every year some 7 000 people die in the mediterranean sea when they are travelling in boats from morocco to spain or portugal, for example, how can we improve the situation in those countries and, on the other hand, how can we ensure that these deplorable people do not die in the field of security? you mentioned the mediterranean bank. we are not against the mediterranean bank, which can be a positive element, but we must not create structures which are additional to the european investment bank. so i would be grateful if you could comment on that. you spoke of stability. i would like to encourage the commission to keep to the path of stability and debt repatriation to national budgets. write your blue letter, as you intended, ... (applause)... to these two member states, because i do not think the system acceptable, that those who should be criticised in the end decide themselves whether they are criticised! i think we need to come to a whole new form of judgment here. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i would be grateful, however, if the president of the commission could say something on this. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) calm down, will you? i speak for your beliefs too! the council is not here today. i do not want to criticise anyone, but we must ensure that in future, including the reform of the council, when the president of the commission makes an important statement here, the council is also represented. this is not just a matter for the spanish presidency, but a matter for the reform of the council in general. i believe that we urgently need reforms in the european council of ministers! (applause from the centre)
president of the commission. - the answer to a question like this can be very short. we are also working with the european parliament in an interinstitutional group on these very issues. we have made a great deal of progress, which is widely acknowledged, and above all we have tackled this problem of transparency in a coordinated way with parliament. of course, the major changes to the rules can only be made in connection with the convention, but the customs - i can assure you - have changed; we'll have to change the rules together.
mr president, thank you for your commitment. they said that when it comes to the mission of the convention, we must determine what kind of society we want and what we need for it. my question is: is it to be a society in which the market rules everything, including social issues? or should it be a society in which social justice is also sustainably promoted, shaped and supported and held accountable by society itself? is the europe of the 21st century to remain a europe of solidarity, not only within the european union itself, but also through partnership, for example with those states which will not only join the european union but are also european but not yet members?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a few words about the mediterranean bank. i welcome the fact that the barcelona process is being deepened and made more concrete. i cannot understand, and i ask you again for a concrete answer, why you have decided against this facility, because it could show this year how committed we are to an active mediterranean policy, whereas a bank or a subsidiary takes a longer time - we have had the experience of this when we set up the eastern european bank - before it is operational at all. this process is also much more expensive in terms of staff and resources. - besides, have you solved the problem politically? if we need partners in the arab states - there are already a lot of funds there, so not all the arab states will participate - what will you do if israel wants to participate in this bank too? the european union is not a party to the mediterranean policy, but it is a party to the mediterranean policy, and it is a party to the mediterranean policy. a final question: when will the commission, as the guardian of the treaties, which must also ensure that all the member states of the european community are bound by the rule of law, send a blue letter to member states which are questioning the rule of law?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm not gonna take my two minutes. the epp group shares the view of the rapporteur and the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. we too are against the waiver of immunity. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by congratulating the commission on its strong presence here, not only with president prodi but also with vice-president de palacio and commissioners reding and solbes. i think - and mrs wallström is also present, she is in the second row; i am sorry that i did not mention you at the outset, but it is all the more effective to be greeted in a special way - this shows the importance we attach to cooperation between the institutions, between the council, the commission and parliament, and i will make a few comments on this at the end. we fully agree with what the president of the council and the president of the commission have said about barcelona. the council president has been very successful in your country in recent years with your personal policies. but they are also, of course, in the tradition of the lisbon decisions, and there have been very demanding formulations: the most dynamic, competitive and sustainable economic area should be created. i think we would all do well to be a little more modest, because then the criticism would not be so strong if we did not act in accordance with these principles and objectives. our group would have welcomed it very much - and here too the spanish presidency has been put in a difficult position, which we can see very well, so i am not criticising the presidency so much - if the finance ministers of the european union countries had followed the commission's proposals when it came to making two european union countries actually comply with the stability and growth pact. it is also an institutional problem when those who write the final report are the ones who are supposed to get the bad marks, and when these people also promise something for 2004, namely a budget that is almost balanced, which we already know today will be difficult to achieve. we therefore call for credibility and stability and for us to stick to what we have agreed in the treaties on the single european currency. i would encourage the commission - and you have our group at your side - to stick to its stability policy, to pursue it consistently, and we would welcome it if the council of finance ministers would also take note of this. mr president-in-office, you were right to speak of small and mediumsized enterprises, and i was pleased to hear that there was an informal council. i believe that we should pay much more attention to small and mediumsized enterprises in our overall economic policy. the best economic policy is to have a moderate tax policy. the more we relieve small and mediumsized enterprises of the burden of taxation and the more we relieve them of bureaucracy, the more they will be able to invest and thus create jobs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you have rightly spoken of the liberalisation of markets, of the transport market, of the energy market, and i would add the postal and financial services. if you use the term liberalization, you might get the impression that this is something that serves the income of the companies. no, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, and we must be clearer: liberalisation means more competition, and more competition means lower prices, and lower prices mean that it is precisely the people who do not have such a high income who then have the advantage of it, that is, the consumers, and that is why it is important that we create this competition. the european council has already made a number of important decisions on the basis of the conclusions of the madrid european council. the secretary-general of the council, mr solana, will, if i am correctly informed, be making proposals in barcelona for reform of the council. there is now a paper from the two heads of government of great britain and the federal republic of germany, and mr aznar, the president of the council, has certainly welcomed it. but if we want to reform the council, it is not enough to make public statements, we must also give the permanent representatives a signal to follow! i have the impression that the institutional working party between the council, the commission and parliament has not yet reached the level of the heads of government. i therefore ask you to help reform the council, to ensure that when lawmakers meet in public, the council is present whenever important debates take place in parliament. if you can do that, your presidency will be a success. we want it to be a success because we want a common success for europe. the commission is in any case on parliament's side, and if we act together, europe will succeed, and then some of that glory will also fall on the spanish presidency, which i cordially grant you. i hope that in the future, when you come to parliament, you will have something to drink immediately, because we always treat our guests well. (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, honourable members of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i see that the colleagues understand me as they always do, and that is why i will begin my remarks after the warm welcome. ladies and gentlemen, what is our reaction so far to this debate? what is our response to lower growth rates? what is our response to rising unemployment again? so what exactly can we expect from barcelona? lisbon has set ambitious targets: we want to be the most competitive area by 2010, to achieve full employment, to create a society of social participation which renews and continues the european social model. should we give up these goals? are we going to go back to baking bread and settling for the status quo? mr poettering has advised more modesty. i support that, modesty is a decent human virtue, but we should agree on one thing, mr poettering: let us not confuse modesty with cowardice! we cannot afford to live with the under-utilisation of our economic capacity on a long-term basis. we cannot afford to disappoint the expectations of the people of europe, who, despite all their scepticism, welcomed the euro with euphoria and renewed expectations. that is why our report, which we adopted by a majority of over three quarters in both the economic and social committees, bears a clear signature. this clear handwriting says yes to proactive policy. this clear handwriting says yes to the integrated policy approach of lisbon. this clear handwriting also says yes to mobilizing all resources and removing all obstacles, to doing everything we can to get back on the growth course. i would like to thank all the colleagues who have put in the work and have given fresh courage to this undertaking: first of all my co-rapporteur, mr garcía-margallo y marfil, in the economic committee for the ppe and the many shadow rapporteurs in both committees, and first of all thomas mann in the social committee, who have been very dedicated to our common cause. so what exactly do we expect from the new spring summit in barcelona? mr president-in-office of the council, i am firmly convinced that the spring summits and their preparation must come out of the bureaucratic circles. it is not enough that only the experts deal with it and that it is discussed only in small groups, how and where we are progressing. i'll tell you why. there will always be, and this is what is being referred to in this debate, individual member states blocking out on national interests. there will always be member states in the middle of national elections where it seems appropriate not to take the next step towards 'more europe', as they say in their slogan. i would add that there have also been some opposition parties in the european parliament which have tried to prevent european progress because of national egoism. i call on you to overcome all of this, both of these, and to work together vigorously on the european project so that we can move forward as a whole. let us return to the heart of the lisbon message. what's in the lisbon focus? lisbon makes it clear that the people, the citizens of europe, are at the heart of the strategy. it is a question of enabling workers, entrepreneurs, trainees, students, all those who want to participate in the economic and social life of europe, to do their best. this is the core lisbon strategy we must work on. if we accept this, it is relatively easy to derive from it specific issues and concrete demands. we must make a decisive improvement in the employment strategy so that everyone has a chance of re-entering the labour market. we need to make labour markets flexible but also secure so that workers can reach their full potential with full productivity. we must have a clear policy, as has been done, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises, as the main employers in europe, so that they too have a free hand to participate in innovative ways of doing business and so that europe as a whole can be strengthened. this must be our message, and this is our clear expectation at the spring summit in barcelona. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the report on the 2002 spring summit, the two committees on employment and social affairs and economy and monetary affairs tried to identify innovative ways forward. this has been achieved in many areas. on behalf of the epp/ed group, i would like to congratulate udo bullmann on his work and on his ability to dialogue and compromise. what is the agenda in barcelona? first, the reform of education systems. the pisa study has caused a healthy shock in germany, for example. finally, education and training are given political priority. students must be expected to do more, and then they can be promoted. the first is to provide a comprehensive training as soon as possible, the second to provide specialization as late as possible. only by having a thorough knowledge of the languages will they have unhindered access to the open labour markets of europe. secondly, the reform of employment systems. 13.6 million people in the eu are unemployed, a development that cannot be avoided by improving labour market statistics. instead of managing unemployment, the ability to work must be significantly increased by means of skills training, market-oriented training and internet connections. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. we need smart, differentiated solutions, such as flexible working hours, tailored to different sectors and regions. thirdly, the reform of the social partnership. social dialogue must prove its worth, especially in difficult times. the european social model has made a significant contribution to social peace and to the increase of european productivity. it is a flexible and by no means rigid model, and therefore worth developing.fourth, its form of regulation. the workers have a vital interest in small and mediumsized enterprises and the craft sector. they are the backbone of all eu economies. they provide 70% of all jobs and 75% of all training places. their start-up and innovation capacity should be encouraged. they are continually learning, and they gain considerable experience. but such qualities must not be undermined by taxation and over-regulation of smes. fifthly, the reform of the state budget. our group insists that the commitments of the stability and growth pact be respected by all euro countries without exception. economic imbalances must not be used to soften the blow. the threat of the blue letter alone has led, for example, in germany to the suggestion that a consistent austerity policy is at last being pursued. but it is not just my country that is being examined, all government expenditure, all subsidies. i have great confidence in the spanish presidency. it knows the value of our european social model and the importance of sustainable economic growth. let's bet on their motivation at the barcelona spring summit!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would refer exclusively to the report by mr karas. first, it is welcome that there is a clear separation between the actual economic consequences of 9/11 and the long-standing shortcomings in policy and economics. the european union must of course allow member states to support companies with serious problems which are actually due to the consequences of the attack in order to mitigate or prevent the negative business and social impact on the people who work there. secondly, it is irresponsible for companies to rationalise their activities - that is, to cut jobs - on the basis of the events of 11 september. it would be absurd and harmful to go there with state aid. thirdly, i do not believe that it is possible to prove that the european central bank's interest rate cut and the introduction of the euro in europe prevented an international financial crisis from breaking out. fourthly, the additional negative impact on the economy of increased military and internal security spending, as the rapporteur fears, can be drastically reduced by a sensible development policy aimed at eliminating the causes of terrorism, such as poverty, oppression, exploitation and cultural intolerance.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! i should like to concentrate in the two minutes i have available on one aspect which plays an important role at the barcelona summit. president prodi has mentioned it, and it will also be about the action plan on biotechnology which the commission has proposed. i think it is good that this is being discussed in barcelona, because biotechnology offers opportunities for growth and employment. i think it is right that the commission should take a bold step in this direction. i would like to say explicitly that most applications of genetic and biotechnological engineering do not pose any fundamental ethical problems. that is why biotechnology should be supported. it can also contribute to sustainable development by conserving resources through the wise use of biotechnology. but, mr president of the commission, there are also legitimate concerns. i have the impression that the commission's action plan presents these legitimate concerns as an acceptance problem, which can only be addressed and informed to the extent necessary, and then there will be no problem. the european parliament has always stressed, however, that there are also necessary limits, limits which are necessary in themselves and which must be set politically to protect the environment and health, but also for ethical reasons. we are no longer the european economic community, we are the european union. that is why we need common values and consequence. i therefore think it is wrong that the commission treats stem cell research in its document in a very general way and does not present the ethical problems in a sufficiently differentiated way. the prime minister aznar has done something quite different in recent days. he has explicitly raised the ethical issues. i would like to call on the council and the commission to address these problems. i would ask the house to support amendment no 27 to the jackson resolution, in which we have dealt with this exact balance between opportunities and risks, and to call on the council to do so.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in order to achieve the ambitious lisbon objectives and make the union the most knowledge-based, competitive and dynamic economy in the world, the pace must be stepped up, the target groups must be defined more clearly and the instruments must be applied more consistently. to increase the employment rate of women to 60% by 2010, member states must take more action, such as tackling youth unemployment, and set benchmarks to promote women in the future information technologies. the proportion of women is still between 10% and 20% and the proportion of women owners of small and mediumsized enterprises is less than 20%. the top management of companies is only up to 10% female. where are her impulses here? despite the fact that the structural regulations have made gender equality a priority and the framework strategy has provided recipes for gender mainstreaming, women earn 20% to 30% less than their male counterparts, depending on the country and sector. young women have high expectations of europe and demand flexible childcare facilities, and, mr president of the council, so do fathers, because they want to share responsibility and reconcile work and family. european initiatives such as lifelong learning and community initiatives such as equal take this into account. now we have to take further steps. new forms must be created and we do not want the women to be disappointed as in the convention, where unfortunately only 20% are women. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the human rights situation in turkey has not improved at all in the past year. i am in favour of turkey being admitted to the eu, but the copenhagen criteria must be met. i welcome the constitutional amendment, but it falls far short of my expectations. turkey must take more steps or it cannot join the eu. the death penalty has not been abolished, only reduced. turkish politicians are showing little zeal in implementing the constitutional amendment. although arabic, english, german and chinese are allowed to be taught in turkish universities, kurdish, the mother tongue of 12 million people, remains banned in education. more than 10 000 students who exercised their constitutional right to petition for the admission of kurdish are now facing criminal proceedings. you're being charged with separatism. the peaceful and political solution to the kurdish question includes the lifting of the language ban and the inclusion of kurdish as a subject in the curriculum. the copenhagen criteria include the right to mother tongue teaching and media, and they must be a non-negotiable condition for accession. hadep members have also been arrested, accused of initiating the kurdish campaign. the initiation of the hadep ban proceedings has led to an increase in repression of hadep members. last year, 3,245 hadep members were arrested, and more than 55 offices were searched and closed. on the international day of peace, more than 3,000 hadep members were arrested. one man even lost his life. mr verheugen, i would ask you to travel to the south-east of turkey and meet the 37 mayors of hadep. hadep mayors do not receive any financial support. the villages that were destroyed have still not been rebuilt. how are the thousands of refugees to survive? why is the south east not getting money from the meda programme, even though the regulations say so? it is a democratic step backwards to ban hadep. the ban is a step in the wrong direction for turkey on its way to europe. i and my group are calling for the immediate closure of the proceedings against hadep. the conference of presidents has decided to send a delegation to turkey. as long as turkey does not publicly oppose a ban on hadep, a delegation must show solidarity with hadep and support it. we must show on the ground that this house does not accept undemocratic measures! (applause from the centre)
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for this report, which concludes the discharge for 1999. parliament must control the commission in the spending of funds. but you can only control if you also have access to all the documents and information. otherwise, the discharge decision is not a genuine control but an act of favouritism. i therefore emphasize the demand in paragraph 4 of the report that parliament should have the same access to documents as the court of auditors. the commission must stop using its great ingenuity and delaying tactics to create new obstacles to keep documents from us. the most recent example is the van buitenen report of 31.8.2001. as rapporteur for the leonardo i programme in the social affairs committee, the commission has not given me the slightest indication that new allegations of mismanagement are being made and are being examined by the commission and olaf. it would have been better if parliament had given it a discharge for leonardo i, despite its better knowledge, if i had not been informed of the facts by a third party at the last minute, so to speak. since then, the commission has been playing catch-up. i would ask you, mrs schreyer, is that the trusting cooperation which you and your colleague mr kinnock never tire of demanding of us in parliament? what have you got to hide? the report is now apparently available in full to at least one german press outlet, together with the olaf report on it. do you not think, mrs schreyer, that we should finally be given the report? the hotly contested framework agreement, which was presented to parliament without any opportunity for discussion immediately after the discharge in 1998, has proved to be ambiguous and confusing and is in clear contradiction to our rules of procedure. that's why it can't survive. it must be adapted to our rules of procedure and not the other way around, as mr bourlanges' amendment obviously wants. i therefore ask that the amendment tabled by mr bourlanges be rejected and that parliament's powers of control, as laid down in the treaty on european union, be left untouched. no serious european can seriously want the rights of parliament to be restricted in favour of an administration which is already too powerful and which threatens to turn europe into an uncontrolled and uncontrollable functionary apparatus. that is what our citizens do not want. i should have liked to have been clearer about the so-called flechard ii butter scandal. the unreserved investigation of flechard ii, which is not only a waste of money but also a health hazard, is, however, a matter which will continue to concern us in the discharge procedure for 2000.
chairman of the committee on budgetary control. the commission is not first of all, let me say how pleased and honoured i am to be speaking in this house for the first time under your presidency. i should like to make it clear that i am speaking specifically on behalf of the committee on budgetary control. it has just been said by the two rapporteurs, whom i congratulate on their work, that the committee on budgetary control has given a great deal of thought and has put it into practice. we did this because we want this convention to be a success. that is our unanimous conviction, and i want to make it clear here. i am not saying that the commission has not been consulted on the budget, but i am saying that it has not been consulted on the budget. however, it must be clear that this exceptional budgetary procedure is unique and cannot be a precedent. this has been underlined by the rapporteurs. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the convention, which is to be submitted to the council in the near future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have set them out in our hastily drafted opinion and we see them incorporated in part into the resolution. for that, we thank you. the first priority for us is the question of discharge, which under the treaty is the supreme and sole decision of parliament and is normally non-negotiable. however, article 20 of the council decision on the financing of the convention states that the representatives of the governments shall give the secretary-general a discharge after obtaining the consent of parliament, the council and the commission. what does this mean exactly, especially since the terms 'consent', 'assent' or 'avis conforme' are not clear in the various language versions, and what are the procedures? a satisfactory solution has yet to be found. the second question is that of parliament's access to documents. the treaty clearly provides that parliament is to receive all the documents and information it deems necessary in the discharge procedure. but article 4 of the draft resolution of the committee on budgets states that this should only be the case for the european court of auditors. this does not reflect the spirit of the treaty. as i have said, this is a sui generis procedure which deviates in part from the treaty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. i welcome paragraph 5 of the draft resolution by the committee on budgets, which provides that the discharge procedure should be carried out in accordance with the rules laid down in the treaty should the work of the convention last longer than the time-frame provided for. i would like to express once again my hope that we can adopt this report tomorrow and thus give the convention a good start.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. we will have to deal tomorrow with a supplementary and amending budget which is certainly unique in the history of this parliament and will remain so, because we are negotiating a volume of 0.005% of the budget of the european union, and we have even set up a debate of our own on this. we have invited commissioner schreyer to come to parliament to discuss what is happening here and why we are doing this. there are reasons to talk about it, because it's about funding the convention. this convention has been desired by this parliament more than by any other european institution. we promoted him, we challenged him. we have asked him to create and introduce new procedures in europe to improve the cooperation and interdependence between the institutions, that is to say the three institutions. this includes mutual respect, mutual knowledge of who is working where and transparency. the spanish presidency's initial proposal on the use of the funds needed to finance the convention was a shock to us, because it was only intended to be used by the council as a funder, as a money manager and also as a money controller. no more talk of parliament! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the committee on budgets and this parliament had to strongly object to this. we had to do this in a very short-term procedure because we couldn't go through the normal procedure. the deadlines were too short. we have not been able to make any proper preparations within the committee on budgets. we did this because we are interested in seeing this convention start tomorrow. what parliament has achieved is that we are now in agreement on the allocation of funds in accordance with our powers as part of the budgetary authority. we are one of the two parts of the budgetary authority which is the one that decides on the allocation of funds. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have discussed this with each other because there are still questions. we in the committee on budgets are convinced that the wording as it has been found is correct. but better is always the enemy of good, and if we can get a little bit more precise, by having our colleagues from the committee on constitutional affairs and the committee on budgetary control look into it, then we should be very pleased. we will certainly ensure that the convention and the implementation of the convention's procedures do not provide a blueprint for any institutions which are to be created at european level. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is therefore he who will receive the discharge from parliament, the council and the commission. the council has given its approval to the discharge of coreper, an institution of its own. this is a strange business! this will not be a blueprint for anything in the future in the european union, and the discharge procedure will not be carried out anywhere else after this blueprint. we will oppose this vigorously. this parliament will be pushing for its rights. we're gonna be very careful what happens here. but we will agree tomorrow because we know this convention has to start. it must send a good signal to europe that we are no longer using the old methods, but that we are behaving in a new way, reorienting ourselves and shaping the future of europe!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. our delegation from the european parliament for the three countries of armenia, azerbaijan and georgia is very grateful to the foreign affairs committee for allowing us to have an in-depth debate on the south caucasus region today with the report by mr gahrton. this region on the border of europe is founded on a variety of cultural and christian traditions. it is europe's gateway to asia. the european union has sent encouraging signals with the troika initiative and the visit to the south caucasus, but progress is far too slow. it must be alarming in southeastern europe that russia has suspected al qaeda fighters in georgia and announced plans to expand its operations throughout georgia. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. but where does europe stand? we have already discussed this in the european parliament in strasbourg after 11 september and expressed our concern about the difficulties that could arise if something were to be concentrated here. unfortunately, it seems that the concern has been justified, because what is happening there at the moment is really dramatic. the south caucasus has been ravaged for centuries, and in 2002 it should finally be possible to stabilize these areas and to give the people there a future and a life of peace and semi-secure prosperity in their homeland. all three countries are striving to build democratic structures and become independent of their overpowered neighbours. but when you consider that there are still russian troops in two of the countries, azerbaijan is liberated but practically just over armenia, a part of its country cannot be visited, these are issues that not only worry the population, but could also lead to aggression. that is why i am also addressing the commissioner, because oil is certainly a key point there, and i would like not only america and russia to represent their interests there, but also the europeans to take action in the countries which are still part of europe, and to ensure that there is a stable development in those countries, because they are trying to build democracy, but that is difficult. if corruption and crime are rampant, then people will find it unbearable to live there. i believe we have a huge task as europeans to do everything possible as soon as possible to play a positive role in this conflict, which will enable a future for these countries. (applause from the centre)
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. first of all, i want to say that socrates is a success story. this was already the case for education under erasmus, but i think that, embedded in the socrates programme, it has seen a further increase. this is a positive finding of this evaluation of the second programme phase of the eu general education programme. socrates is committed to lifelong learning and supports mobility at all stages of learning, for both learners and teachers. socrates, you might say, walks with us from the cradle to the grave. the commission has gradually introduced measures and measures which have improved the substance of the programme. i welcome the continuing simplification and acceleration of bureaucratic procedures. bureaucracy is not indispensable in any government programme at any level. but in such an educational programme, bureaucracy must not be an obstacle and must not interfere with the objectives. the commission has taken account of this principle in some cases. the areas where she didn't, i'll get to. as rapporteur for the launch of the first and the second phase of the socrates programme, which is now under way, i am pleased with this positive development. the figures for the first half of the programme speak for themselves. in 31 countries - the 15 member states, the candidate countries and the members of the european economic area - universities, 40,000 teachers and over 460,000 students participated in erasmus 2000 university exchange alone. comenius, the part that supports schools, supports 15,000 schools with over two million students, and i think that's really where we're reaching our citizens. i think it's really worth continuing this programme and adding to it if possible. in this context, the increase in the multiannual budget from the original 850 million to 933 million, which was the result of discussions lasting overnight, was logical. but you have to be honest, it's not enough. if new candidate countries join from 2004 - the programme runs until 2007 - then this programme will have to be extended. if the council of ministers does not allow this, then i can only say that all his statements at summits are worthless! i think the commissioner should remind the honourable members of this at the next council meeting. of course, i have my criticisms. many initiatives can still be improved in detail. firstly, the commission should in particular continue to improve and accelerate cooperation with the national agencies. decentralisation has great advantages, but it requires effective information management. here, the symmetry system developed by the commission will significantly improve the flow of information to and from the national agencies. at the same time, however, it is possible and useful to link up with the youth programme and leonardo da vinci. symmetry must therefore be used as soon as possible. secondly, i would like to emphasize that the majority of the national agencies gave me the impression that the commission is helping at all stages. but the delay in drawing up new contracts has, in particular for the comenius project, unfortunately delayed payment. such obstacles must be removed, because postponement and delay cause frustration among the committed participants. this is all the more difficult because of the high level of voluntary involvement in the development of the projects, particularly in the school sector. i know schools where the teacher who does that gets laughed at by his peers. he does it in his spare time and doesn't get a penny more! thirdly, i also expect progress in the creation of joint actions, particularly with the other programmes mentioned. fourthly, i would also ask the commission to follow the principle that the less aid, the less bureaucratic requirements for the participants. i think we could follow the example the commission has set in the case of the town twinning scheme, which is to treat all applications under 20 000 differently, not to have the same pile of paper for applications as for those with higher grades. i also think that the requirement of co-financing should be waived for aid of less than eur 20 000. the essential importance of socrates in the european educational area has been praised many times and is unquestioned. we must not forget that socrates is the supreme nucleus of the european knowledge and education society. i am afraid that intergovernmental cooperation in education could supplant the community approach. the bologna and prague declarations, however, have proclaimed such supposedly faster methods. we must not forget that the objectives and measures of the so-called open procedure for cooperation with the member states in the field of education would be hardly conceivable without the positive experience of socrates. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. there are two points to note at the end. firstly, socrates is an essential, decisive european programme because it educates people in europe and is europe's answer to the educational prospects of the future. secondly, the open method of intergovernmental cooperation must not therefore call into question the importance of the community approach. we'll have to keep a close eye on that. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. socrates is, amongst other programmes, the european union's programme for building europe from below, and you heard it earlier from doris pack, because through this programme generations of young people are actually experiencing europe and growing into european contexts which shape their entire personal and professional lives. that is why it is so important that we in the european parliament should not only involve the council and the commission in the procedures, but also contribute to them ourselves. i would therefore like to raise two points on which i would also like to ask for the support of the other committees of this parliament, in particular the committee on budgets and the committee on budgetary control. the first point is the question of decentralization. it has proved its worth, but the national agencies have a counterpart in brussels, and that will be the executive agencies in the future. we need to have as good a cooperation with these executive agencies as we have, thankfully, with the national agencies. i therefore urge the commission, and also the committee on budgetary control, to create the necessary conditions for the discussions on the executive agencies. the second point is the question of financial control. we also need the support of the committee on budgetary control if the aim of granting smaller amounts of aid without a lot of bureaucratic effort is to be achieved. the commission should receive the necessary support from parliament, in particular from the committee on budgetary control. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. i would like to thank mr graça moura for his careful and specific attempt to reflect the political guidelines of the ep which also underpinned this programme in the implementation of this programme. for example, where does this programme open up access to and greater participation by citizens in cultural life? what actions do our fellow citizens take? the great bureaucratic effort and the criteria for managing the programme cannot obscure these objectives which the programme originally had, and they must not call them into question. the report makes it clear that we must ask ourselves: what do we really want from a european cultural policy, especially in the context of enlargement and the forthcoming convention? if you talk to cultural workers today, they are all afraid that in the context of this convention, in the context of the subsidiarity debate, culture is being sacrificed to this debate. i hope not, and we'll fight for it. how can the programme be made more operational so that it becomes a real instrument of cultural action, meeting the needs of both the cultural producers and the citizens? is the programme intended to work for the cultural sector or for the benefit of the general public? these are questions we must ask ourselves in the light of the present situation as we think about the future. of course, this programme also needs better financial resources, so as not to create more frustrated people than satisfied ones. i do not want to prejudge the debate on the successor programme after 2004, but graça moura also spoke about it, because it is already being discussed in the commission. but the report urges us to really start thinking about this now, so that the convention does not give the floor to the enemies of any cultural policy at eu level. i would remind all of us that european cultural policy, while respecting differences and cultural traditions, brings citizens to the heart of political debate, and that is the only way we can give europe a soul.
- madam president! - what is it? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether he is prepared to do so. it is probably necessary to have a different identification factor for the people in our member states. cultural exchange and participation can be used in many ways for the better, much more than a controversial procurement regulation. the cultural heritage and cultural diversity of europe should be reflected in all community policies since the maastricht treaty - since the word culture has been in the treaties - but this is largely theoretical. in practice, the member states are jealously guarding national and regional cultural sovereignty. in cultural matters, the council insists on unanimity, arduous conciliation procedures are the rule, low-level agreements and annoying delays the result - see culture 2000. it wasn't even about a lot of money. the share of cultural expenditure in the european budget is more than meagre at a mere 0.04%. it is extremely discouraging for artists to know that their application - no matter how convincing the idea - has a 90% chance of being rejected, because not even 10% of the applications have a chance of getting the contract. it is not at all amusing for us members of parliament to have to disappoint hopes by repeatedly rejecting dozens of proposals. no one wants to take away the competence of the member states, but a little more openness might be good. unfortunately, this is also lacking in the practical implementation of culture 2000. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the programme is implemented in a timely manner. finally, there is no coherent conception of the content of the question: what is the actual objective of the support? how can you reach as many people as possible at once in the form of large events? or to give as many artists as possible a chance to cross borders? classical high culture has an easier time making a breakthrough. the way to people's hearts is more likely to be through support from less established artists, networks and citizen initiatives. they are the ones who create european added value. the european union is the most powerful economic area in the world. we like to boast about it with unashamed pride. the european union is also a cultural area of immense diversity. we should be fooling around with this good, not gossiping, and not just with culture 2000. (applause from the centre)
- madam president! - what is it? in the previous item on the agenda on the european programme socrates, we very much welcomed the fact that this would allow for the broad participation of citizens, and in particular young citizens, and thus the european idea to be conveyed to the european public. the cultural programme has been the subject of much discussion on the financial and bureaucratic aspects, but i would like to turn your attention to the question of the concept and, in particular, to the question of how we are going to proceed. i would therefore like to thank mr graça moura for having opened the dialogue on the future of culture 2000 with this report and i would like to support him in this. i ask whether it is right that we should support the big projects first, when we have so little money. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to speak in favour of this and ask that we create the financial conditions, but at the same time that we develop the programme further: less bureaucracy, but more opportunities for participation, even for smaller groups!
- madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the culture 2000 programme - the good report makes this very clear - not only highlights the growing need for culture, but also contributes to the creation of a single cultural area. the report also shows that the programme is not balanced between the richness of its objectives and the surprisingly weak budget. the rapporteur rightly emphasizes the explicit recognition of culture as an economic factor and as a factor of social and civic integration. unfortunately, in this programme, as in many others, and this is no excuse, for example in the context of regional policy, the first two years were marked by the late publication of calls for proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this, together with lengthy and cumbersome internal procedures, is ultimately responsible for the low utilization rate of culture 2000 during the first year of its validity. i think that the commission must make a real effort to shorten the cycle of projects and to ensure the continuity of the programme. in conclusion, i would like to take up a question from the explanatory statement of this report and put it to the commission, a question which is of particular interest to me as a regional politician: how is the necessary complementarity and coordination between culture 2000 on the one hand and the structural funds resources allocated to the cultural sector in the member states on the other hand to be ensured? perhaps that would be an interesting aspect to consider.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the unique thing about the youth programme is that it is really open to all young people, and it gives them direct european experience at a formative age, bringing the european dimension into their lives. the european youth programme was adopted on 13 april 2000 and will run for seven years until 2006. it is aimed at young people aged 15 to 25 and at actors in the field of youth work and has a budget of eur 520 million. thirty countries are involved in the programme, i.e. iceland, liechtenstein, norway, the member states and the candidate countries, except turkey and malta. it is highly decentralised, i.e. 70% is spent through national agencies. in 2000, 10 029 projects were financed, with a volume of just over eur 80 million. the total number of participants was 103,784, which corresponds to a 98.5% completion rate, an excellent rate considering the late start of the programme. the various actions have achieved the desired balance between youth exchanges and voluntary service. we are also concerned about the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. action i youth for europe involves meetings of groups of young people and youth exchanges, action ii european voluntary service. it is aimed at young people who are going to volunteer for six to 12 months in another country. action iii is the youth initiatives, action iv is the support for initiatives which have cross-programme effects with socrates and leonardo. in 2000, there were no projects under the supporting measures of heading v. during the first year of the programme, we heard complaints about the length of the processing times. the time between application and granting of funds for centrally managed projects was usually four to five months. the commission has thankfully taken up our criticism during the procedure and has already accelerated the process. i hope that we will continue to work well with the commission in this area, to ensure that the project participants have a fast and unbureaucratic procedure. the distribution of programme funds to the national agencies also presented problems. i hope that the money advanced will not cause additional costs and create too many difficulties for the projects. gender evaluation of the programme is extremely difficult. i would like the commission to provide us with more precise data and to ensure that the gender balance among the participants is maintained, so that young women are not left behind, especially among the disadvantaged young people. one of parliament's priorities was to involve disadvantaged young people more in the programme. according to the commission, 50% of the centralised projects were successful in involving disadvantaged young people. the decentralized programmes were more difficult. i think this needs some work. the exchange of experience between national agencies can also be improved. the inclusion of the candidate countries was initially difficult, the legal bases were adopted somewhat late, and visa issuance is often difficult. i would urge that participants from the candidate countries be granted visas automatically, without bureaucracy and without any fees. the total administrative costs were quite high in the first year. this is because the commission has already paid the costs in advance for two years. i think that's fine. we also welcome the objective of involving smaller organisations with little international experience, so that unorganised young people can also have a better access to the programme. we'll keep an eye on the ball. i think our successes need to be sold with emphasis and above all better. that's why i suggest we have a week of action to introduce the programme to the public. in conclusion, i would say that the member states must not reduce their youth exchange programmes. they must integrate the european dimension more fully into their national policies. the consultation process on the white paper is giving us encouraging signals and i hope that with this new impetus for europe's youth, we will have the nucleus of this youth policy with the youth programme. (applause from the centre)
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. - madam president! - what is it? i was unfortunately unable to attend this morning and will therefore be making a summary statement on the socrates, youth and culture 2000 programmes. the reasons for the selection of these programmes are based on the decisive consideration that the programmes concerned are certainly the most important community support programmes in the field of education, youth and european culture. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. we expressly welcome the creation of an evaluation group whose objective must be to monitor closely the implementation of community programmes by parliament. the initiative to set up the evaluation group and to develop this control mechanism on the basis of new instruments and appropriate structures is welcomed. it also stresses that the strong demand within the member states has led to additional funding for the socrates, youth and culture 2000 programmes. we had to take note that the low rate of programme implementation during 2000 was due to cumbersome and lengthy internal procedures. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the problem of bottlenecks in the centralized administration is a cause for concern. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. further decentralisation of programme management is a major step in the right direction. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter.
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. europeans travel across their continent without border controls. they pay with the same money, and their passports are the same color. the existence of a european identity beyond all national differences has never been disputed. but the good news is that more and more europeans are experiencing this in their everyday lives. the european youth and education programmes, of which this youth programme is one, naturally play a large part in this success. the rapporteur has just said that it is one of the most important community support programmes because it is also the only programme open to all young people, regardless of their vocational and training situation. we have already heard that in the year 2000 alone, more than 10,000 projects were funded with over 100,000 participants. we consider this to be a considerable success, since we are only talking about implementation in the first year. of course, this positive news must not have a negative impact on the national youth programmes of the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would therefore like to make it clear once again that youth was created to support and complement the member states in their actions, but not to relieve member states of their obligations. on the contrary, the programme countries should make it easier for young people to participate in the youth programme by reducing the administrative burden and, as the report rightly points out, by granting visas automatically and free of charge to participants where necessary. an important objective of this programme is to involve disadvantaged young people more. according to the commission, 50% of the centralised projects were for disadvantaged young people. the short-term volunteering scheme, which was created specifically for disadvantaged young people, has not yet been used to the full. the target of 20% of these funds was not reached. but i think it's appropriate. with the programme budget of almost eur 80 million and the relatively high administrative costs of eur 12 million, it is appropriate and the commission should be able to achieve this objective. i believe that such high administrative costs are justified if it is actually possible to reach new groups of participants and thus to include disadvantaged young people in this programme to a significant extent. (applause from the centre)
mr president, i really did not understand that. i beg your indulgence. the translation of the text said that the debate would take place on wednesday. but if i understand correctly, it is to be debated on tuesday. can we maybe work this out again? in any case, the german translation was not entirely understandable.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. to facilitate the procedure, our group is very committed to the chechen issue and if we agree today to the request to take the issue off the agenda for this week's partsession, that does not mean that we will not continue to be committed to the issue. we shall wait for the visit of a delegation from the european parliament to moscow and then take up this subject again in a detailed debate in may at the latest. i want to make this very clear. we remain committed to the cause and are focusing our full attention on chechnya. so if we are in favour of taking the subject off the agenda in this sitting, that does not mean that we are reducing our commitment to the matter.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to say to mr poettering that i am in full agreement with the proposal he has made. i think that if we want to have a proper debate on chechnya, we must do so not in the context of urgency with one or two minutes, but in the context of a statement by the council and the commission on this issue, where we can have a serious discussion about it. i would also like to point out that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
mr president, i would like to make one thing clear: my group did not actually want to ask for this item to be dropped, but the information was that the group of the party of european socialists had asked for it and we said, well, ... listen to this. i always listen to you. so we said: in order to have a large majority in this house and to remain committed to the subject, we are in favour of putting it off for this week, but in the very near future we will find a suitable procedure to deal with this subject in a very appropriate way, possibly also in the presence of the council and the commission. it is only on this basis that we are in favour of not dealing with the subject this week in the form of an urgency but at a later date in a much more appropriate form. that's our condition for it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i had come to the meeting on the 20th to protest in every way against this meeting, which was called at such short notice. when such a meeting was called in december after the laeken summit, it was said that this was not a precedent, but an exception because of the importance of laeken! i now realise that it seems that after each council meeting such an additional plenary session is to be postponed. i have the impression, and i would like to protest against it, that this is a systematic shifting of the session rhythm decided by the plenary, while at the same time undermining the thursday afternoon programme. firstly, the urgent debate was abolished and then the urgent vote was also abolished. i see here a systematic shift in the pace of the meetings and i ask you to abandon this or to clarify for the rest of the year whether we want to hold such a meeting after each summit, because then the remaining mini-plenary sessions in brussels could be abolished and this could be arranged in the form of a shift to the week after the respective summit.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was misquoted in a german newspaper this weekend in a catastrophic way. i would have been prosecuted if i had actually said what was printed. it's safe and it's been verified that the newspaper had no ill will. the fault is due to a cumbersome communication chain caused by the excessive closure of the european parliament. mr wilfried kuckelkorn, in his letter to you on 17 january, pointed out the difficulties that the need for security in this parliament, which was prevented and made absurd after 11 september, brings with it, and he called for common sense. i have signed this letter with other colleagues. we have not yet received an answer. maybe it takes time to translate. i therefore ask you today, by means of direct interpretation, when will the cages of the members of the european parliament be removed to protect them from their immediate surroundings and from the people?
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the committee on budgets has been following the commission's public relations work very closely for many years, and i think that, thanks to the various instruments which budgetary law has put at our disposal, we have succeeded in significantly improving the information policy of the commission and of all the european institutions. this shows us, as the committee on budgets, that we are on a very good track overall as far as the commission's information policy is concerned. however, we must also take a critical look at the situation. if we look at the great need for information among citizens caused by the introduction of the euro, if we also know how much money the european union has allocated to this measure, and if we read again and again, even now, surveys showing that many citizens feel poorly, not at all or only insufficiently informed, questions arise about the efficiency of our information policies. we will have a great task together in the months and years ahead. we in the committee on budgets will also be very closely involved in helping citizens to agree that our european union should be bigger, have more members and face new challenges together. i therefore ask the committee on budgets - and i know that we are in good hands with mr andreasen and the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport - to continue this change of strategy which we started together many years ago, so that the european union's information policy can really meet the challenge of providing citizens with objective information on current european problems and developments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i do not think that is the commission's job.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to begin by thanking both rapporteurs for the way in which they have approached this subject, which has given rise to many problems in this house, with a great willingness to compromise. the commission's original proposal was more or less to give the full powers of the ias rules to outside this house, namely to other institutions, to private international bodies, in the form of a general authorization. this was something that many in the house had great reservations about. i am therefore very pleased that, along the lines of the proposals for the lamfalussy reports contained in the wogau report, we have now succeeded in finding a solution and a genuine compromise, on the one hand, by exploiting the possibilities offered by the ias and, on the other, by ensuring that parliament's rights are preserved. i can only say that i greatly welcome that. i also wish the commissioner good luck when he travels to america soon and holds talks with the securities and exchange commission on the way in which the americans are dealing with the ias. it would be a great relief for our companies and a great step forward if the americans could accept the ias. but events such as flow tech, holzmann and, more recently, enron in america have also made one thing clear, and i would like to share this with the commission: i believe that if ias are now adopted in this form here, there is still a great deal to be done in the field of auditing. i do not think it can be right that there are few large international companies that provide very intensive advice and then review what they have advised in companies themselves. i think - and this is one of the lessons that the bush administration has learned in america, for example - that further legislation is needed to ensure that the person who advises cannot audit and the person who audits cannot advise in the same company. i would ask the commission to think about this and to come forward to parliament with concrete proposals soon so that the financial markets can really become safer and better.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. once again, not at the usual late hour in the european parliament, we are able to debate the further development of postal services in the european union. in fact, in the last few years, almost decades, if i recall the time when the commission presented the first green paper on the further development of postal services, we have achieved a gradual opening of postal markets in the european union. the path we have followed together in the past has been a good one for citizens as users of postal services, but also for postal service providers, who have been able to develop into competitive companies. what we have to decide and debate today is the council's common position of october last year. we have dealt very intensively with the commission's proposal on the development of postal services at first reading and we have also been able to convince the council on many points that our arguments were correct. i would just like to point out that the deletion of the definition of special services, including express services, was an idea of parliament which was adopted by the council. the fact that the weight and price limits for outgoing mail have been retained in the council text, as parliament had requested, is a great success for us. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the european parliament for the fact that we have largely won the case for special tariffs and cross-subsidization, for the timetable that has been set. the most contentious issue in recent weeks and months has of course been the weight and price limits. i think that the council has found a fair compromise between the commission's proposal and the outcome of the european parliament's first reading. the commission had proposed 50 grams, the parliament 150 grams, and the council decided on the average value, i.e. 100 grams. i think this is a fair compromise for the further opening up of postal services. we have discussed this common position of the council very intensively in the committee. i think we have achieved a good result across all the political groups. the good result is that there is no delay in further liberalization of the postal services. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. the commission will be able to submit a proposal to the council for a decision on the basis of the proposal from the commission. i would like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to the belgian presidency of the council, under whose presidency a compromise was reached. the european council has already made a number of proposals to the council, to the spanish presidency, which has now worked very constructively with me to reach a solution which does not require a conciliation procedure, and of course to the commission and to you, commissioner bolkestein. i think that in very intensive discussions over the last weeks and months we have succeeded in getting parliament's legitimate concerns put on a sensible track by the commission with the political possibilities in the council. i think it makes sense that, as in the case of telecommunications, we should be informed every two years of developments in the postal sector as a whole. it was a great concern of my colleagues, and i very much welcome it as rapporteur, that we should follow closely what is happening in this sector, which is of course an important part of our lives, because everyone is happy to receive every day, hopefully, pleasant mail and not just bills. it is important to ensure that postal services are maintained in all areas of the european union, in remote areas, in rural areas, and that not only are the raisins picked out of an interesting market, but that all citizens will have full access to postal services in the long term. we must keep this in mind and we want to oblige the commission to do so by submitting a report to us every two years. we also want - and i attach great importance to this - to be involved in the further development of the postal service. the commission will carry out a study in 2006. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would also like to thank the commission for its willingness to go along with parliament on this matter. i think we are on the right track and i hope that by the end of this decade the postal services will have achieved the goal of being competitive companies that provide their services for the benefit of the citizens of europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the postal service is not just any product or service, but a very sensitive commodity which also requires sensitive handling. in the first round the commission did not, i think, meet this request; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in view of the scepticism that has been expressed, we must also make clear what we are voting on this week! the excitement will start in 2006. we are also asking the commission to explain how the universal service is to be financed. there's no blank check, but we get a study. there is no automaticity, but we want to know very precisely - because that is the decisive factor - whether, as mr mastorakis has said, for example, people in rural areas on the islands still have good postal services. that will not be the case until 2006. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr markus ferber, because i think he has already brought the interests of parliament together with those of the council, so that this week we will, i think, have a good majority for a good compromise. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as a home affairs politician, i see that the european data protection supervisor plays a very, very important role in creating an area of freedom, security and justice. it builds citizens' confidence in the institutions of the european union. he must work where the majority of the institutions are permanently located, in brussels, when it comes to this question. if he works elsewhere, he is seen as having only secondary importance. if citizens have the impression that the data protection commissioner is just a toothless tiger, they will not trust the european union. if they do not have confidence in the protection of their data, our domestic policy will never get the consent of the citizens it needs to grow freedom, security and justice. that's what we're after. we want to create european added value in domestic policy, which can only be achieved if the citizens place their trust in us. the commission has therefore to show them that we take data protection seriously and do not put it at the centre merely symbolically.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. let me just say this first: i'm not a big fan of commissioners. i still feel that we, as elected members of parliament, should be the first representatives of the people of europe. why do we need a data protection officer? my esteemed colleague timothy kirkhope has based this on the charter of fundamental rights and the importance of data protection. i do not think that is the right argument, because then we would soon need a family adviser, a women's adviser and a children's adviser. all these groups also have a prominent place in the charter of fundamental rights. in my own state, schleswig-holstein, we have developed a veritable monster, we even have a cycling commissioner! but if you think that's why cyclists are better at budgeting, you're on the wrong track, as they say. no, actually, privacy is important. and that is because we as parliamentarians find it difficult to monitor the commission, and in particular what is happening in the commission, and that is why we need a helper in this area. of course, as my colleague mr ceyhun rightly said, it must be in brussels, where it is also responsible for carrying out its control work. let's get to the pay. i cannot see how an official who is now to control this data, as important as that position is, could be guided by the salary of a judge at the european court of justice. i can't see why that would be at all. a judge at the court of justice has a much higher and more important position. the judges are the guardians of our contracts. so why should we pay a data protection officer like a judge at the ecj? i think that over the years our values have shifted a little, and they have moved to the right. that is why we should think about bringing the ombudsman back to the right level of pay, rather than over-funding the next post. you're gonna have to appeal to a little more realism.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mrs malmström, on behalf of the epp group, i would like to thank you for not only getting acquainted with these difficult procedures but also for conducting the necessary negotiations with the commission with the necessary toughness, prudence and kindness. i believe that this is a result which will bring calm to the commission and to the other institutions in proceedings which have, at one time or another, led to arguments which may have been unnecessary. it is an opportunity for us to make the debate on the commission's annual work programme more political, to move away from a more accounting-like listing of individual projects, and indeed to give a fresh impetus at the beginning of the year to what we consider to be the most important projects of the european union for the coming year. this procedure and the preparation make this annual work programme, if you will, interactive. i believe that this is a step forward in terms of the reliability and planning of the procedures we have before us. but it also makes demands on ourselves, as mrs malmström rightly pointed out, because we really have to stop repeating what we wanted to do anyway and instead limit ourselves to the span of one year. we also need to be more involved than ever in the practical planning of the six-monthly presidencies, which may be in conflict with our own priorities. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the proposal. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in milk and milk products is a very important one. the commission itself, above all, is understandably very cautious in this respect. however, we must of course consider whether we should not also discuss the matter again in the context of the convention's discussions, since the fact is that the european union's vast body of legislation, which comprises some 10 000 acts, can only be amended by a commission proposal. i would like to question whether that is enough to meet the democratic requirements. the decision we are taking today is therefore also a crutch for achieving greater involvement of parliament in initiatives.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'common carrier'. - mr president, commissioner schreyer, i have to tell you that i am very pleased with the way you have handled this matter. the most important point for the committee on agriculture and rural development in the budgetary field is the question of codecision. we need the decision in the convention that agricultural policy should be included in the full co-decision procedure, so that the division into compulsory and non-compulsory measures is also overcome. we must achieve full budgetary sovereignty, including in the agricultural sector. we would also like to have the possibility of flexibilizing the positions where the resources are not being used up. we expect the same for the 2003 budget. but we know, of course, that the decisions on principle are subject to resistance. we believe that the budget discipline law already cuts the compulsory appropriations in terms of reuse or other use, i.e. if we get to higher spending we have to cut back in legislation, while the remaining funds go back to the finance ministers of the länder. i can imagine that they would like that, but that cannot be in the interests of the european parliament. secondly, there is always talk of spending a lot of money. i am in favour of a budget that is sparing, including in the agricultural sector, but we must point out once again that we are below the 1.27 limit at 20 billion euros. it is not possible for a parliament to cut its own budget in this way. politics is also always about money - and i mean this in a positive sense - and it would therefore be sensible for the european parliament, but also in the interests of the commission, not to exaggerate austerity policy against the countries. thirdly, mrs schreyer, i should like to make one point: you say that preparations for enlargement must be stepped up; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the preparation has not taken place here, and that is very regrettable. i would like to mention again the proposal of the committee on agriculture and rural development, which was accepted by the committee on budgets, and which calls for us to launch an inpard or a leader programme this year - it could have been launched last year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has adopted an opinion on the proposal. - mr president, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am speaking on behalf of the committee on the internal affairs, which is the least expensive of the three when it comes to total eu expenditure, but on the other hand we are the ones who are working in an area which should play a very important role after 9/11. i am therefore very pleased that the rapporteurs have both been very open and that mr färm has finally accepted our proposals and has adopted them. it also shows that, especially after 9/11, we are dealing with terms such as combating terrorism or prevention in such a way that we take this matter very seriously and make it clear that we are prepared to strengthen our own european authorities in this area, such as europol or eurojust, that we want to be successful in this area with our own authorities. the second important point for my committee was of course the enlargement issue and the important question: how do we deal with the frontiers at all? and not just because we want to secure the borders. we also want to ensure that people do not have to die there, which means that when it comes to combating smuggling, the committee on the interior is very sensitive and looks closely at what is actually being done in this area and how effective the measures are. we have, of course, some expectations for 2003. but despite the fight against terrorism and the police measures on the one hand and the border control measures on the other, let us not forget one thing: in a democracy of 15 states, and soon even 25 states, in the european union, we also have an obligation to the people who come into the european union and live with us. we have made some proposals in this connection with regard to integration policy. i am very grateful to my colleagues on the committee on budgets for their willingness to accept these proposals.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to focus on three specific points when we talk today about the guidelines for the 2003 budget. the first is enlargement. of course, in 2003 enlargement will play a greater role in the budgetary procedure than in previous years. but if we look at what can be done today in the field of pre-accession aid - we have just heard a lot from the agricultural sector - there is still a lot to be done on our part, as well as on the part of the countries which are applying for accession. the fact that this really allows for growth in the programmes, but also in the administrative structures, and then only requires 3500 new jobs by 2008, which is then referred to as the cost of enlargement, is of course a little bit. i would also like to appeal to the members of this house: i warn you that we are now trying to use budgetary tricks to shift funds from heading 8 for enlargement to heading 7 to finance pre-accession aid. this is not the commission, but an amendment from the group of colleagues. then, please, be honest and go home and tell your own finance ministers: we need a revision of the financial perspective; enlargement is underfunded. but i can only warn you about trying to use such tricks to finance the expansion. i should like to thank the commission for its opinion on this subject, which also reflects the views of the group of the european people's party. the second topic is foreign policy. i want to make this very brief. i am going to be very clear: i am getting a little bit upset because a lunch for the foreign ministers of the european union costs us on average 100 million euros. it's not possible to do that in the long term. it's on now. we are now suddenly asked to take on additional activities which the member states said months ago that they would finance themselves. i call the keyword amber fox. now all of a sudden it is being financed by the community budget. that's totally out of the box. the council should also say where it is prepared to waive the european union's activities; then it can also be financed in a serious way. the third point is agricultural policy. i do not think we need to reinvent agricultural policy through the budgetary procedure. but i naturally expect the commission to submit the proposals in time for the mid-term review, so that we can also take account of the budgetary impact in the 2003 budgetary procedure. i would like to point out that we as the budgetary authority have a different say in rural development programmes in particular than in the area of traditional income aid and that the commission should also take this into account so that it can be done in time. i would like to thank colleagues färm and stenmarck for their cooperation. i am sure that we will be able to present a proper budget by the end of the year. parliament should not be responsible. i hope it's not the council. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, commissioner schreyer, i have to tell you that i am very pleased with the way you have handled this matter. i would like to thank the two rapporteurs for their work. it's an excellent piece of work. i should like to take the opportunity of today's debate on the guidelines to make a sort of interim report or stop-gap. we have now completed half our parliamentary term, and if we look back at the tasks we had at the beginning of this parliamentary term, what was to be financed from the budget and what we had and made available for this purpose, then the world has obviously changed considerably. we have to deal with the problems that exist in the world and which, of course, do not leave us unimpressed. europe is moving together, and we are moving together with the world. we have to take on tasks that were previously impossible to do. the foreign policy area has been touched upon: the large-scale aid for reconstruction in the balkans, the aid to afghanistan and the people persecuted and tortured there, the fight against aids, the scourge of world health, the disarmament measures we need not only to reduce landmines but also abc weapons, but also, for example, to ensure that peace can come to the balkans with a police force. in the field of home affairs and justice, we have of course also agreed to strengthen and accelerate europol and eurojust after the events of 11 september. the commission has now put forward a new proposal to strengthen civil protection. we are talking about common structures, about future development. we are talking about immigration and the regulation of immigration in the domestic and judicial spheres. enlargement has been described as a problem area. we have a lot of internal and external problems to solve, and if mr ferber says that we must consider the relationship between the seventh and eighth headings, then we must also note the following: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. we also see, of course, that there is under-exploitation, and where too little is exploited, there is no need to add more. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but you have to face the facts. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have to prepare. we need to prepare the countries, and that of course includes equipping ourselves and talking about it. talking about it is a prerequisite for making good decisions. if you stand up now and say, for whatever reason, 'you must not even think about this', i think that is irresponsible. we have had to push forward the reform of the commission in recent years. we also have internal problems which need to be discussed further. the fight against unemployment must not be forgotten. it is one of the central tasks and we have of course already made progress in this area through the cooperation procedure. we want to prevent social exclusion. we want to promote technological development and therefore provide funding in the field of e-learning and in the field of new technologies. these great challenges that have arisen in recent years do not frighten us. we are facing this challenge with confidence. we want to shape this. it is good that this european union is working together, that we are increasingly trying to present a closed picture to the world and to work together. we are not sitting here, we are not standing up and saying, "more money!" we must look carefully at the possibilities within this budget. of course, this is part of a serious budget, but we must also point out that we have additional things to do; if we want to make sure that the poor are not the ones who suffer, if we want to help others who are persecuted, then we have to think about how we treat each other here. this is not the automatic demand for more money, but it is the targeted use of money. we have to be careful where we spend our money. are they optimally used? if not, we have to layer them, and if not, no one should be issuing thought bans. we do not want more money, we want a targeted effort and we want to have the means to develop europe as the epp members have constantly demanded in all our resolutions and quite rightly so.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. if i have the opportunity today to speak on the third item of the 2003 budget, it is because i have been accompanying the report for my group, the european people's party, in the committee on agriculture and rural development. i should therefore like to begin by explaining what the committee on agriculture and rural development is proposing in its amendments to the report by mr färm, whom i would like to thank very warmly for his work. we are not discussing the 2003 budget today, but the budgetary guidelines, in which we express our basic ideas, and i am here presenting the basic ideas of my group in the committee on agriculture and rural development. firstly, we want to see the transferability of appropriations from chapters b1-1 to b1-4 to the following year, each separately. in the long term, however, we believe that this will require first of all the european parliament's participation in the decision-making process in the agricultural sector, and we also want the transferability of compulsory and non-compulsory funds. secondly, another request concerns the increase in the flexibility reserves for possible crises and emergencies. thirdly, although the majority of the committee on agriculture and rural development voted against this, we are against the introduction of the inpard programme. the programme will only lead to a further fragmentation of the funds which are already being drawn up slowly by the applicant countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. fourthly, and most importantly for us, the 2003 budget should not be used to pre-empt the mid-term review of agenda 2000. we do not want any agricultural reform in this report here and now. what we need is a further development of the european agricultural policy. the decisions on agenda 2000 are our binding basis. the agricultural budget must not become a stone-cold for the most varied desires, but must be a reliable option for agricultural policy.
- thank you very much, mrs. schreyer. the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon.
- doc. a5-0077/2002 by mr turmes and mr rapkay, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directives 96/92/ec and 98/30/ec on common rules for the internal market in electricity and natural gas (com (2001) 125 - c5-0184/2001 - 2001/0077 (cod)) - a5-0074/2002 by mr mombaur, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on conditions for access to the network for crossborder exchanges in electricity (com (2001) 125 - c5-0185/2001 - 2001/0078 (cod))
- mr rapporteur, at the moment - as you can see for yourself - she is not here yet. i would therefore ask mrs schreyer to remain here on behalf of the commission until the commissioner responsible arrives. but we cannot interrupt, because otherwise we will not be able to meet the agreed time.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to go. you just mentioned that we should strictly adhere to the speaking time! i am therefore asking you to consider the way in which parliament works. what we are doing here is a law that will completely reorganize one of the key markets in europe, namely the energy market. it is a market worth billions of dollars, and we allow ourselves to speak for just five minutes per reporter here - five minutes in which we really cannot get to the point of anything sensible. we have to divide it even between the two rapporteurs, because formally we have only one directive, but because of the two dossiers we have two rapporteurs. the commissioner who is just coming in will then have the opportunity to comment on this, as long as she is funny! i am not saying that we should not do this, but i think it is a disaster that we have to limit ourselves to such a small number of people in the political debate. i just said we're going to change the market structures. what we have is not a single market, but 15 submarkets in the european union. 15 submarkets which are more or less open in themselves, but above all where the degree of openness varies widely. this is even more true for the gas market than for the electricity market. but if we want to take advantage of the efficiency gains of a single market, we do not need the addition of 15 submarkets, but we need an integrated single market. efficiency gains for the economy to improve its competitiveness, especially of small and medium-sized enterprises, efficiency gains for consumers in terms of low prices, and efficiency gains for the environment through the conservation of resources. the open market we want is not laissez-faire or 'everyone does what he wants'. what we need are rules for all the players in this integrated market, rules that they can understand, rules that they can apply equally. we need access to the networks and other systems that is absolutely transparent and non-discriminatory for all market participants, otherwise there will be distortions of competition. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need a regulatory framework that sets objectives, makes binding commitments, sets mechanisms and uniform applicability. now we have the problem that we have, of course, 15 different member states, and these 15 member states have very different structures. a country with 700 or more network operators has a very different framework from a member state with only one network. the key is that the regulatory framework is binding, that its application is controlled and that infringements are punishable. that is the point, and in that respect we must correct a little of what the commission originally proposed with its amendment directive, so that the systems in the various member states are on the one hand harmonized in their objectives, but on the other hand remain somewhat compatible with their mature structures. and how the institutions and authorities of a member state guarantee this is a matter for the member state itself. it just needs to be clear and reliable for all market participants. so much for what we can actually regulate as legislators. i want to use the remaining seconds to simply ask the commission for something. we have different conditions for electricity and gas. we produce electricity essentially in the member states themselves, in the internal market. we are increasingly dependent on imports of gas from third countries. i believe that it will be an important task here, from the point of view of competition and competitiveness, to bring about competition among producers. i know that this is a difficult matter because these are essentially suppliers from outside the union; but this would be a task we all have to work on, because without this competition on the producer side we will always have limited competition here on the european market.
- mr rapkay, i share your unease about the length of time we spend discussing such an important subject. i would remind you, however, that it is the group chairmen who prepare the agenda, not the bureau. in my experience, the great men of this world spend far more time on "political affairs" than on things that have to do with real life.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. first, the crossborder trade in electricity. as rapporteur for the committee, i can say that the committee supports the commission's proposal for a regulation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. there are five conditions. firstly, the costs of the networks which handle the transit must be reimbursed from a fund. secondly, this can only be done in a european manner, i.e. by regulation. thirdly, both producers and consumers must contribute to the funds. fourthly, these payments by producers must be harmonised in the member states so that unilateral competitive advantages are not created. fifthly, there are no internal customs duties, i.e. no payments by so-called exporters and importers, which is an aberrant concept in the internal market, and no tariffs based on the distance of the contracting parties. it's physics, not law. three final remarks on the subject. it is an important question where the electricity is produced. it depends on many factors. the committee will probably be open if, within the conditions i have mentioned, so-called allocation signals are also found and applied. in florence, the regulators, the networks and the commission are thinking about it. the committee does not propose to change the powers of the comitology procedure and the bodies. but since this is a codecision procedure, we propose that after four years it be reviewed whether the procedure envisaged here is in keeping with the spirit of the codecision procedure. finally, the regulators in the member states and the experts, such as the network operators, should be involved in a controlled process. the entry into force of this regulation should not be earlier than the directives, which also decide on the changes in the electricity and gas markets. i am therefore in favour of the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, which are intended to improve the quality of the information provided by the commission. firstly, those in the council who want to reopen the markets only partially - and we know exactly who they are - are in breach of the european treaties. i would like to make that very clear here, and it is also in the committee's proposal for a decision. these treaties guarantee freedom of establishment, freedom to provide services and freedom to move goods throughout the eu to all eu citizens. these freedoms will only be achieved when all electricity and gas consumers can choose their suppliers throughout the eu. only then is the legal status of the contracts established. secondly, if a member state wants to treat all households in its member state equally, for example between lille and the pyrenees, it can do so, it can decide so. however, he may put out an invitation to tender for the service and ask which competitor is most likely to be suitable and qualified for the job. there is no justification for a monopoly of suppliers on the road. that's against the law, too. it's a case of black money. i should like to make the following points on the reports. we support the free choice of all consumers across the eu. we support the idea that all suppliers should have access to the technical networks which must be run in their own companies, so that there can be no discrimination based on the type of supplier and, therefore, no abuse of a dominant position in their own company. we are in favour of regulatory systems in the member states to ensure that. i am in full agreement with mr rapkay that this has not yet been satisfactorily resolved in any member state. i am in favour of a solution with the council which is appropriate to the very different national network structures.
- mr president, i have to go. i too would like to thank the rapporteurs very warmly for their preliminary work. i think that the debate on these directives and regulations was a good example of how we can sort out a complex subject together, at least to the extent that we know what unites us and what our different views are. i would also like to remind you that at the end of the 1980s, when the commission published its white paper on the internal market, energy was not mentioned at all, which shows that this is an extremely complicated matter. at that time, many people said, "let's not touch it, it's too complicated, we understand it much better from the electricity and gas industry, let's do it". we have taken a different path, and i think that with the competition we are taking the right path. i am also in favour of unrestricted competition. moreover, if we did not do so, the european court of justice would probably eventually force us to do something different, for example to recognise the household customer as a customer and not a customer that we define. the treaty is still more important than one or other of parliament's resolutions. i would also like to say that we should not only deregulate but also regulate. what we are doing here is actually regulated deregulation, if that is not a misnomer. but that's exactly what it is. we are not only opening up the market for gas and electricity, but we are also setting the conditions, environmental conditions, social conditions, or leaving it to the member states to regulate these. i think it's a combination of both. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. i do not see this as a complication of the process, but as part of it. we need a market, we need regulated competition, but energy is also something to which citizens have a right. the security of supply must be defined, the ecological conditions must be defined. this is part of the directive. the opening up of energy markets is also a prerequisite for the kyoto protocol to work. without competition, without an open market, there will be no emissions trading in europe. this is part of the kyoto protocol, which we want to ratify almost unanimously.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are now dealing with a commission proposal for further reduction of noise at and around airports. we are therefore adopting an agreement which was adopted at the icao conference last autumn and which applies worldwide. i am of course personally concerned about the change in the system at the icao conference. we have moved from the phase-out of certain aircraft types or the freezing of their use to what is known as a balanced approach, i.e. not looking at the aircraft but looking at the noise situation at each airport individually and introducing restrictions depending on the noise situation at the airport. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this type of noise reduction, which varies from airport to airport, also gives us the opportunity to repeal the hushkit regulation. we are going to have a little trouble with the united states and other third countries because of this hushkit regulation, because from 1 april this year the landing rights of these aircraft would automatically be frozen. since we have had the new balanced approach since montreal, we can do without this hushkit regulation and thereby end the conflict with the united states, and i would also like to say very loudly that the americans should not forget to withdraw their complaint under article 84 if we withdraw our hushkit regulation. because of the time constraints of april 1st, we had to move quickly on the bill, and i must say that it was an excellent success. although there were some initial difficulties with the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, we agreed that the environment committee should draw up an opinion on this. we have taken them up and we have had an informal trilogue with the draftsman of the opinion from the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, so that there has been no battle between the environment and transport in this house. i would like to thank the vice-president and the council representatives very warmly for the successful conclusion of the informal trilogue procedure. i would like to point out to the house that we have two technical amendments which i will be proposing tomorrow because we have made two editorial errors in the speed and the speed of the procedure. there are discrepancies between what we agreed with the council and what is in the motions. but we'll correct that. i would like to point out that we have made progress as a parliament in two key areas. we have pushed to change the definition of urban airports. until now, city airports were just airports with an alternate airport next to them. so there were practically no city airports. we have expanded this definition by omitting the alternative airport as a requirement. we have not yet had it flown in, so as not to have any conflict with the americans, and we have said that municipal airports are airports as defined in annex i. it may be amended by the member states together with the commission in accordance with the committee procedure. we have therefore the possibility of introducing stricter noise regulations for particularly affected areas, particularly affected urban airports. but, and i am addressing the socialist friends in this chamber, the general demand to tighten the rules from minus 5 to minus 8 would lead to conflict with the united states, but would also cause us internal difficulties, because the member states are not willing to accept such a tightening and the airports are not willing to do so at the moment. so we should actually stick to the minus 5 approach. where the situation is difficult, the definition of a city airport can be used as a means. i therefore urge the house not to support motions 21 and 22 in order not to jeopardize the compromise with the council. secondly, we have received the council's approval - and i say this to all our environmental friends in the house - to stipulate for the review in five years' time that we will be aiming for a more stringent regime than the negative 5 after these five years. we have therefore clearly indicated that we want to take account of the citizens, their sensitivities and their health. but the same citizens want to go on holiday, the same citizens want to fly to the european parliament. so you have to find a compromise between the interests of the people who want to fly and those who live at the airport. i think we've found the compromise. i would like to ask the house to approve tomorrow in a convincing manner what we have negotiated with the council with the help of the commission's conciliation services, so that we can conclude this difficult and important dossier in foreign policy at the first reading.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i should like to thank the rapporteur for his consistent report and for his strong commitment to compromise. we will also be carrying most of his compromises. however, i have to disagree with him on the way he has dealt with the environment committee - that was legally correct, but politically not quite optimal! the problem itself is that one third of all european airports are currently experiencing noise problems, and the problems are increasing, as is the growth in air traffic. we've seen a doubling of air traffic in the last decade, and a doubling again may take even less time, because flying is becoming commonplace. i am thinking of the low-cost carriers, on the other hand, the enlargement to the east and other issues; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information available to the public. noise problems are increasing in cities due to increased traffic, and population density will increase in the conurbations. at the same time, the desire for a higher quality of life is also increasing, i.e. the acceptance of additional noise pollution is decreasing. it is therefore logical that we should try to come up with a proposal for a directive that is as effective as possible. it makes sense to make international agreements, because this is a global business. the icao agreement on the new chapter 4 has been painstakingly worked out, but it is not going to work immediately, and so it is good that we are introducing these additional possibilities of operating restrictions at individual airports, which allow for stricter noise emission values there. it is also important that we play a stronger role in the icao, because there are other international agreements to be concluded and we are also faced with further international conflicts in the future. so it's really important to consider: where do we want to be strong? i am thinking of the open skies agreements and what will be on the agenda today with subsidized aircraft from third countries. on the other hand, it is not really worthwhile - we are not in need of it - to shorten the parliamentary procedure, because i think that people in the united states will also realise that parliamentary procedures take time. we see three points a little differently. firstly, we want to make it even clearer that in five years' time, after the review, there will be a tendency to raise the limits; let's say we already have that fixed with these eight decibels. secondly, the necessary restrictions on the operation of the plant should be introduced as soon as possible, and in our view more quickly than the commission has proposed - i am following the vote of my group here, not my own. thirdly, we should perhaps discuss the question of urban airports again, and the compromise reached with the council and the commission, to extend the definition so to speak, to include not only the original four but all airports in urban areas when they are used for intra-community traffic, seems to me to be the right one - and i think my group will also support it in the meantime, although after some discussions. two things to say at the end: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the environment. i'm sure we'll come to some viable compromises in the next round. i would like to thank the rapporteur once again.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. the great merit of mrs izquierdo rojo's report is that it has once again triggered a wide-ranging debate on the influence of religious fundamentalism on women's emancipation. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the report and the commission's proposals. however, women's rights are restricted or violated worldwide, citing religious or cultural traditions or legislation. this is not only true of islamists, but also of other religious groups. the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, after difficult negotiations, proposes concrete measures on more than 30 points, which were approved by four political groups. we regret very much that the christian-democratic group in particular has not been prepared to negotiate a compromise. the reporter was ready. the fight against the repressive mechanisms of the fundamentalists should be a matter of consensus. the taliban in afghanistan have provided an example of how they were the first to throw women's rights overboard, forced women to wear the burqa, and ultimately denied them education, medical care, and cut them off from any kind of employment opportunity. in a joint statement by the european parliament's women's committee and the council of europe's women, we call for an international group of women observers to ensure that afghan women are given back their full human rights. we condemn all forms of fundamentalism, violations and crimes for the sake of so-called honour, such as stoning or mutilation of the genitals, and the denial of reproductive rights, including in europe! within the eu, we need to influence immigration laws and asylum policies to recognise gender and non-state grounds for persecution. in my country this is a big debate, and there too it is the christian democratic group which refuses to compromise. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. minimum standards for the protection of the safety and health of workers are at the heart of european workers' rights. the serious negative consequences of noise exposure have been scientifically established. we do not need to discuss them in detail here. noise-induced hearing loss is one of the most common occupational diseases. measures to protect against noise are therefore a high priority. all those involved - workers, employers and the legislator - should therefore make every effort to keep noise pollution at work as low as possible. we cannot do anything to reduce the noise pollution to which people are voluntarily exposed in their leisure time. we can only appeal to the reason of the individual. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised by the fact that they are not covered by the directive. it is not very useful to impose very complicated rules throughout europe which in practice no one follows or can follow. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for the willingness to compromise which has already been shown in the committee. this avoided a dispute over a significant change in exposure limit values and trigger values without sacrificing the legitimate interests of workers. the commission has also proposed that the level of noise exposure should be assessed in the light of personal hearing protection, as provided for in the council's common position. we also support amendment no 8, which allows member states to set lower values if necessary. this is nothing but the expression of the principle of the minimum standard in european social policy. we also make it clear that the employer is responsible for enforcing the use of hearing protection and for the individual instruction. the principle of 'prevention is better than cure' means that a worker is entitled to an appropriate hearing test if he is exposed to noise levels already above the lower trigger levels. the use of a weekly noise exposure level instead of a daily noise exposure level under certain conditions is also useful, as the common position provides. the most hotly debated aspect of this directive was the treatment of workers exposed to entertainment music ranging from classical symphony orchestras to disco music. i think that we are taking this special area into account sufficiently in the compromise in amendment no 23. i hope that this is a solution which the council can also follow. the immediate and unconditional inclusion of these events hardly reflects the general belief that music, whether in the concert hall or at the disco, is noise and must therefore be treated restrictively from the outset. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. it is enshrined in our european constitution, in our treaties, that we must take care to improve the working environment to protect the health of workers. i have the impression that this is often forgotten in the public debate, particularly in the context of this debate. the ignorance of the press - and in some cases of the serious press - confirms this to me. of course, in addition to the usual objections from the industry, the lobbying of the music industry was particularly massive, not the dark forces, but specifically the music industry. interestingly, this outcry shows three aspects. firstly, the general public is unaware that the employees of the music industry have been covered by a directive since 1986. all employees are involved except for the seamen. that's being corrected now. secondly, it shows the lack of control in the member states, because if better controls had been applied, the people concerned - employers and workers - would not have been so surprised. thirdly, it also shows - and i say this with criticism - a very weak representation of the interests of the workers. i would like to put at the commission's disposal a letter which i received from the swiss music association in connection with a hearing in 1996, which shows very well, mr pronk, that hearing damage is of course always comparable, whether one is working in the construction industry, in the ceramic industry or in a music company or in an orchestra. (applause from the centre and the right) i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. there are of course rules at national level. i believe, even as a left-wing traditionalist, that the state and employers have an obligation to protect workers from the dangers that come from the workplace. that is precisely our task and i believe that we have achieved that objective with this directive.
- mr president, madam vice-president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would just like to ask two questions in addition to what my colleague mr hatzidakis has already said. when we call for new instruments, we are asked: what do we do with the instruments we have and why are they not enough? so i have two questions. firstly, do we not already have the possibility of taking action against switzerland? because i think what switzerland has done in restructuring swissair into crossair, into swiss airlines or whatever, is clearly an aid case. even if the treaty has not yet been ratified, there are certainly ways of taking action against switzerland outside the treaty. when will you do that? secondly, if we are going to take action against unfair practices of ticket dumping abroad, can you tell us what your plans are for the near future against internal price dumping within the european union? there are more and more cases where airlines, in order to conquer the market, offer at their own expense. are you going to attack that, too?
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. about 20% of all europeans regularly supplement their daily diet. in 1999, european consumers spent €1.615 billion on vitamins and minerals alone. the demand for food is constantly increasing, as people's lifestyles and dietary habits have changed dramatically. vitamins and minerals are involved in a wide range of biochemical processes in the human body. an optimal intake of these substances is crucial for human health and performance. i think that the possibility of supplementing our daily diet with vitamins and minerals is very positive. when we speak of dietary supplements today, we are referring primarily to vitamins and minerals that are sold in the form of tablets, capsules and powders. the directive on food supplements aims to approximate the laws of the member states. this will facilitate access for producers to all markets under uniform conditions of production and marketing. the directive clearly classifies food supplements as food. supplements are not medicines and cannot replace them. with the classification as food, all the rules applicable in the european union apply to food supplements, including those on quality, hygiene and safety. the consumer must be able to rely on the safety of all foods, especially substances such as vitamins and minerals, some of which have different stability. the new directive is aimed specifically at two areas: consumer safety and the completion of the internal market in food supplements. parliament welcomed the fact that the council was taking account of the inclusion of other substances in the directive. these are substances which are already on the market but have not yet been evaluated by the competent scientific committee. these should be included in the annex to the directive. the common position provides for 18 months for the preparation of a dossier. the committee on the environment has extended this 18-month deadline to 36 months in order to give small and medium-sized enterprises in particular sufficient time to compile their product data. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i myself am pleading for 30 months, because i believe that two and a half years should be enough to prove the safety of a product which has been sold to the consumer for years. i am very much in favour of scientifically tested substances before they are covered by community legislation. as regards dosage and thus the best possible supply to consumers, parliament welcomed the system of safe maximum quantities in combination with population reference quantities. the manufacturer must therefore not exceed the limits of human tolerance with his dosage. it is not necessary to limit the quantities to the recommended daily intake, which is usually very low. it is precisely in this respect that the directive takes account of the wishes of consumers, but also of consumer protection. the common position has reached a compromise here, which i fully support. we therefore reject amendment no 6 to article 5 of the directive. the directive provides for clear dosage recommendations with regard to product labelling. amendment no 8 on greater transparency is clearly covered by articles 38 and 42 of regulation no 178/2002 of 28 february 2002 establishing the european food safety authority. the epp group therefore expressly rejects this proposal. for all the reasons i have mentioned, i strongly oppose the rejection of the common position as requested by amendment no 7. finally, a few words on the campaign which has been harassing all members of parliament in recent weeks and months. this campaign is being carried out by a single manufacturer and distributor of vitamin products for purely commercial purposes. (applause from the centre) the man behind this campaign is doing image work at the expense of sick people. he's unsettling consumers and using their emergency for his own purposes. i feel sorry for all the people who have fallen for the panic and the simple false reasoning. it is clear that the directive on food supplements does not prohibit vitamin therapies and does not interfere with natural healing methods. the directive rightly prohibits the deception of consumers by unrealistic promises concerning the possible curative or prophylactic effects of vitamins and minerals. the directive will provide european consumers with a legal framework that places a high value on product safety and meaningful labelling, without restricting the range of products on the shelves. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. after talking to many organisations - industry associations and consumer associations - i am now all the more convinced that this directive is the right way forward! (applause)
- mr president, i must say i am very surprised. we are talking about products that are available on the market today, and we are asking why should they prove their safety? i can tell you why . because every little dye that needs to be in your uncle jo's mintballs needs to be, because every preservative that needs to be in a jam needs to be, and because we always stand up here and say, "consumer safety is important". therefore, only something that can prove its safety and harmlessness should be on the market. that must be easy for something that was on the market! i am also very surprised that the different systems are mentioned. i don't know what you're talking about. i did not understand that either from mrs oomen-ruijten or from mrs jackson. you can go to any drugstore in germany, you can go to any supermarket and buy vitamins, calcium, whatever you want, over the counter, in different dosages. i'm not opposed to that either. i'm also fine with keeping it on the open market. i want to have a maximum dose, yes, i want to! because people like me, for example, who are unlucky enough to have kidney stones, they can't take much vitamin c because it crystallizes. they also have to be careful with calcium, and people like me need to know that. that's why it has to be marked, that's why it has to be safe. anyone who stands up here today like patricia mckenna and says that if this directive is adopted, products will disappear from the market is deluded! i hate to say this, patricia, because we often agree. it is not true that a single product that is safe today will disappear from the market. everyone must be able to afford to carry a security certificate. everyone has to be able to do this! for every single product we buy, for cosmetics, for pharmaceuticals, for every single sweetener, we ask for this. and now we don't require that for dietary supplements? and then the food manufacturers of the future will come in and say, "why would we do that for a cereal bar?" and they are right! you won't have to in the future. then they can genetically engineer organisms, they can do whatever they want to them. then why do they have to provide security clearance? i've done consumer protection in this house long enough. i also believe that my reputation in the past has clearly demonstrated that. i say to all the people who call me: no product you buy today you will not be able to buy in the future! i'll make sure they're informed about what they're buying and whether the product is safe. i don't care if it's proven in 24 months or 30 months, it has to be proven. i congratulate mrs müller on her excellent report, which i shall be voting in favour of tomorrow. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's food supplements are not used as a source of health-promoting substances. i can understand the stories of the citizens concerned, but my own experiences speak a different language. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's foodstuffs are not used in the same way as the foodstuffs of other member states. this means that products with pharmacological ingredients and disease-related advertising are subject to authorisation as medicinal products. the directive aims to harmonise the maximum levels of active substances in the 15 member states and to improve national conditions on the basis of safety criteria in the interests of preventive consumer protection. the national food and pharmaceutical industries are competing for a highly attractive market in foodstuffs enriched with active substances. the additional and often alleged health or performance functions are used to promote a new type of food. i think it is important and responsible that the boundaries between medicinal products and foodstuffs are not blurred or made available. the pharmaceutical and food industries will be doing their utmost to enrich foodstuffs with additives which are not naturally part of the growing market. the report is based on transparency, disclosure and consumer safety. that is why i support the report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health and safety of consumers is not compromised. research and science therefore have a legitimate claim to improve this position.
- mr president, i have to go. it's a strange situation we're in today. we are talking about a second reading which the rapporteur has prepared brilliantly, and i admire mrs paulsen's attempt to navigate between scylla and charybdis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. germany and austria have not agreed to the common position for obvious reasons. austria for the bio-composting and biogas recovery operations which would no longer be possible under the common position, germany for the reuse and sterilisation of restaurant waste. when i listen to this today and when i look back at the last few days, i am surprised that britain, france and other countries have agreed. i have just heard mr goodwill say that he did not sign compromise amendment no 25, which i have signed like all the other compromise amendments. i signed them because they're compromises. the best of all worlds is another. i don't see her that way either. but for example, the compromise amendment has come about from the earlier amendments 10 and 1 by mr graefe zu baringdorf, but also from the amendment by mr whitehead which provides for a four-year transitional period. mr goodwill said that in his country there was a fear that the spread of foot-and-mouth disease was caused by the ingestion of food scraps. i didn't hear that it was proven. swine fever, yes, foot-and-mouth disease is new to me. i've probably heard it before, but that's just one aspect of it. another point is, and this is part of the compromise, mr goodwill, that if i go back to my member state and say that there is a problem of disposal of reheated cooking oils, then i hear in germany that this is a dioxin problem, which we do not want. we have to be very careful. it is a very narrow line that we are moving along today, that we are not again, as we have done in the past, raising the cost argument and the disposal problem at the expense of animal health and therefore also human health. when i say today that i can support the compromise we are proposing on food scraps, i am also saying this from one point of view: no one has been able to tell me what is happening in the other member states. in germany there are very modern, high-performance plants that sterilize food waste in the best possible way and then reuse it for animal feed. that's right! in other member countries, no one tells me what happens to it. some say it's being burned. no one really knows. nobody knows the standards, and in private, all the representatives tell you, yes, it ends up in the landfill. that's exactly what we don't want! i want a clear policy. if in five years we have legislation that says that we can no longer feed the animals but only use them as biodiesel, fine, then we will do it that way. but then it must apply to all member countries. at the moment, germany and other countries, including austria and others, are being punished for their high standards. if i am to campaign tomorrow for us to agree to all compromise amendments, i will do so because they are compromises. i would ask you to be equally fair and to accept the compromise.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would like to thank the commission for its initiative in introducing uniform european rules on the use of animal by-products. optimal controllability and traceability of animal by-products is an important prerequisite for greater consumer safety. i particularly support the amendments adopted in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection to the common position on the recycling of kitchen waste for animal feed. the feeding of untreated waste from kitchens and restaurants has often been seen in the past as a possible trigger for swine fever and mcs. it is therefore essential that such untreated kitchen and catering waste transported across borders is eliminated in principle. it is certainly sensible to treat kitchen waste and leftovers under strict conditions in order to be able to control the whole process down to the last detail. the greatest possible safety for consumers must be our declared objective. strict processing requirements, in particular with regard to sterilisation and the killing of potential pathogens, as well as firm european-wide rules on traceability and controllability are essential and reduce the risk of the spread of animal diseases such as foot-and-mouth disease and swine fever. the system must be supplemented by rigorous checks on the producer and the farmer. the key is that farmers and consumers can rely on the safety of products. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the food waste is not used for animal feed. i therefore expressly support the amendment tabled by the committee on the environment.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'common carrier'. - mr president, commissioner byrne, i have to tell you something. people say politics is a dirty business. is it any dirtier to deal with such unpalatable things as leftovers and slaughterhouse waste? it is not perhaps more consistent to ignore it and simply say: no! so, then, does it require some form of corruption or bribery to advocate reasonable solutions? all this stuff's been going around lately. i mean, no. the european parliament has shown courage. i would like to show my reference to mrs paulsen that she has worked so consistently on this. thank you for your cooperation. as rapporteur for the committee on agriculture and rural development, i had the task of bringing the interests of agriculture into the debate. that was good. i also thank you, commissioner byrne, for the long talks and discussions we have had. i think it was not bad, and it was fruitful. besides, it was a bit of fun! this is high-quality protein, and it's going to be fed to non-vegetarian animals. we don't want to make them compulsive vegetarians any more than we can stop carrion-eating birds from eating carrion. that means her death. we therefore want a regulation on foodstuffs which will put the high-quality products back into the cycle. we cannot adopt a policy at the expense of the world's hungry, whereby everything that is no longer good enough for us is simply destroyed or no longer put to use. the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the proposal, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. i do not understand the position of some who say that animal meal can be fed but not food scraps. then, of course, there are others who say that you can feed food scraps, but not animal meal. there are both positions. that is why i put the proposal to you at the time. mrs paulsen, your compromise proposal is in order. i shall be tabling an oral amendment tomorrow, in which i shall be adjusting my amendments, which are essentially the same, in time, i.e. before the entry into force of this regulation. then i think they're compatible with each other, and we can say goodbye to them. then we have a reasonable solution. i hope, mr byrne, that on your initiative we shall soon have it. then we'll fight again, and we'll have fun again. politics is not a dirty business, but it is a lot of fun! (applause from the centre)
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal provides the basis for a very specific separation by dividing the materials into three categories. these must be recorded, stored, handled and marketed separately. it is quite clear what has to be destroyed, what does not belong in the food chain and under what conditions it has to be done. we all agree that contaminated and inferior materials have no place in the food chain. in return, we can treat and then recycle important nutrient carriers, once they have been processed and put to use. the procedure for this is governed by strict conditions. here's an example of a sink, as we call it in germany. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted. the amendment to the regulation is subject to time pressure. the directive on swine fever comes into force on 1 november and generally prohibits the feeding of food waste. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. there must be no loophole here, because the existing plants produce hygienic feed which does not spread swine fever or foot-and-mouth disease. i think amendment no 10 was a good one and that is why it was accepted by the committee. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we should be particularly careful to make clear and unambiguous statements and to avoid confusing duplications and overlaps between individual regulations. this applies to small and medium-sized slaughterhouses. amendment no 2 to article 4 should therefore be supported. i would like to thank mrs paulsen once again for this report. it is about the safety of our food chain, which is closely linked to the health of the consumer!
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. food waste instead of waste tourism - that is my political demand. when will we in the eu be able to provide qualified and objective information? in germany, food scraps are fed to pigs for fattening under strict conditions. these processing plants are very trustworthy. we have the largest population in my country, about a quarter of the total population of the eu lives in germany, and the correspondingly high incidence of food waste. no case of disease has been documented in our country from treated, digested food residue. what are we doing with the proposed ban? in my view, we have now put the pig above the human in terms of food intake. it has already been brought to baringdorf by mr graefe, and i find it really absurd. every day people are starving in this world, in the slums the children are looking for food scraps in the garbage dumps. what luxury does europe have? i am sure you will find it emotional when i say this here tonight, but i really want to see the feeding of food scraps put back on a rational level. we must be able to convey these issues in a more objective way, with the support of the media! of course, it must be treated with an appropriate standard of sterilization. this is the only way to guarantee the eradication of the agents of mcs and swine fever. officially controlled establishments are certainly the best guarantee of this. on behalf of the many speakers - i do not want to repeat all of them - i thank mrs paulsen very much for her work, but i also very much hope that we will come to a workable solution, that we will also be giving long-term signals to which industry, processing and agriculture can then respond.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the 1991 directive on the treatment of municipal waste water was intended to ensure the construction and maintenance of sewage treatment plants in all major cities and municipalities in the european union. as this involved a considerable financial burden, generous transitional periods were granted. as mrs sornosa martínez has already said, we must now say that all the member states have not made use of these periods, but on the contrary continue to delay and - unfortunately, as is clear from the lack of reporting - to use a tactic of concealment. the belgian metropolis of brussels, which likes to call itself the european capital, is setting a very bad example in this respect. the good report by our colleague mrs sornosa martínez is a relentless exposé of the abuses. most member states have not yet complied with the reporting obligations for the first date of 1998 and, of course, for the second date of 2000. it's bad enough as it is. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's waters are not contaminated by untreated municipal waste water. we are making a lot of demands on the commission today. but it cannot be active unless you have the basic elements for action. i believe that the large number of letters rogatory and judicial proceedings brought before the court of justice is proof that the commission is doing its duty. the member states are clearly at the forefront. we should also be doing something here as members of parliament. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr van miert, for his report, which has been very well received by the house and which has been very well received by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. i would like to give at least three reasons: firstly, the high cost, which the european parliament has repeatedly pointed out during the debate on the directive. the estimated investment needs in the 15 member states alone are in the double-digit billions of euros. for the candidate countries, the estimates for this one directive alone are currently around eur 30 billion. the second reason is that many directives require member states to submit reports, which imposes a considerable administrative burden. i would ask the commission to look urgently into whether this task could not be made easier, for example by standardization. there are already approaches in this direction, particularly in the various water directives. the third reason is that the implementation of the directive has also shown that the member states have adopted very different approaches to the designation of sensitive areas. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this could perhaps help with implementation and would have the additional positive effect of improving comparability. i would be grateful if i could have an answer to that.
- mr president, i have to go. the european parliament has been very active in the negotiations on the peace settlement in the middle east. this is not a debate on the middle east, because we want to talk about enlargement, but it is our deepest conviction that we will only succeed in the fight against global terrorism if we, the united states of america and the european union, are equally committed, equally supportive of the peace process between israel and palestine, and here there could be even more signals from our western side. thank you very much for your initiative. (applause from the centre)
the council has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels. firstly, to add to the statement you have just made, which i find impeccable, and which i fully share. for a very long time we have been engaged in intense political and diplomatic activity to try to find a way out of the current spiral of violence and the current situation in the middle east region. as is well known, the european union and the council are guided by a conviction which i believe we all share, namely that there can be no military solution to the conflict and that there is therefore no alternative to a peace process which must inevitably involve the peaceful coexistence of two states in the region: a state of israel with internationally recognised borders and the right to feel secure, and a palestinian state which is viable from all points of view and particularly from the political, economic, social and territorial point of view. the most important thing we have to achieve at the moment is a ceasefire, and i would therefore like to take this opportunity to join, as is natural, the un security council resolution and to join the voice of the european council in calling for an immediate ceasefire and, at the same time, for us to work together on security issues, on issues which involve the reintroduction of a political perspective in the process, without which a solution is impossible, and which also incorporate the necessary economic perspective, given the terrible living conditions and the terrible situation in which the palestinian territories are currently placed. there are so many things to do and so many initiatives and ideas on the table. i would like to express my support for the initiative of the saudi crown prince, which i believe can be a good basis for further work, and which it is very desirable that the arab league as a whole should endorse at the summit that organization is to hold in beirut at the end of this month to re-launch the peace process among all. and i would like to say something else: for this it is very important - as the security council resolution itself points out, as do some of the speakers today - and i would almost say essential, international consultation. we are all convinced that there is probably no solution to the conflict without the involvement of the united states, but we are also convinced that such a solution cannot come about by its intervention alone. and in the concertation between the european union, the united states, russia and the united nations, i would include the arab world (in particular some states but, in general, the arab world through the arab league) so that we can finally convey to the parties the need to cut off this dynamic of action and reaction which leads nowhere, because we all know what the solution is at the end of this process, so that all the deaths and all the suffering are even more absurd, if possible. i therefore believe that we must continue in this direction and i greatly appreciate your words and the support of the house and i assure you that we will continue to work along these lines. we are preparing a statement in the clearest, most definite and precise terms possible for the european council which we are to hold in barcelona the day after tomorrow. i hope, moreover, that it will be a declaration which can be shared by the other international actors present and which will help to achieve that much-desired peace which sometimes still seems so distant. (applause) if i may, mr president, i would now turn to the subject which brings us together here today in this first speech, which is the enlargement process of the european union. as is well known, the forthcoming enlargement of the union is one of the most important strategic challenges facing the european union since its creation. for the spanish presidency, as is well known, this is one of our fundamental priorities. the political primacy of this undertaking was already underlined in nice and a road map was drawn up setting out our tasks for this semester. in gothenburg, a clear time horizon was also set. it was said that the negotiations must be concluded by the end of 2002 with all those countries which are ready. and laeken went a step further by confirming the parameters within which this last phase of the negotiations must be maintained - it was also said that if the current pace were maintained up to 10 countries could be prepared - and it was also established under which parameters, i repeat, the negotiations can and must be maintained so that they can be properly concluded: on the one hand, respect for the existing acquis and on the other, respect for the berlin financial framework. i would like to stress the great challenge of this enlargement, which will bring into the european union countries which, in many cases - i am now referring particularly to the eastern countries - were just 15 years ago totalitarian dictatorships with planned economies and which, in general, belonged to a military alliance opposed to the atlantic alliance. like i said, we're talking about, like, 15 years ago. the changes are therefore so profound and have taken place in such a short time that they give this enlargement a character of its own, specific and unique, which for all these reasons makes it very different from the previous ones and therefore also of a different nature. as the presidency-in-office of the council of the union, our main objective for this six-month period (as we have been instructed to do in the road map) is to reach common positions on the chapters which correspond to our presidency-in-office and which are the last to be determined: i am referring to the budgetary and financial aspects of the common agricultural policy, i am referring to regional policy - structural and cohesion funds - the financial and budgetary aspects and provisions and, finally, the chapter on the institutions. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. we will make every effort to achieve this objective because, among other things, we are aware that any delay can jeopardize the whole exercise. the debate on these chapters has begun with the presentation by the commission (i suppose we will have more on these points later) of a communication on the financial framework for enlargement and also of horizontal documents on both regional policy and agriculture. after the internal debate taking place in the council - we have already had some very intense and very serious initial debates - the commission has undertaken to submit to us proposals for a common position, if possible during the month of march or during the first days of april, if necessary, depending on the outcome of these debates. i must say that the assessment of these documents by the presidency-in-office of the council is positive, since we believe that they offer a sound and fair basis for the negotiations. its content is reasonable, balanced and respectful of the acquis and the financial ceilings in berlin, as we agreed at the laeken council. we are now at a crucial juncture and we will therefore make every effort to ensure that any attempts to initiate reform of the common policies do not interfere with or overlap with the enlargement negotiations, with the inevitable consequence of delaying them. the presidency of the council is fully committed to the successful completion of this task, although it is also fully aware that these are, as i have said, the most complex and sensitive chapters of the negotiations. it is not a question of opposing the timely initiation of reform processes in the main spending policies, but of emphasising that these reform processes must be in line with the timetables already established and therefore follow channels other than the enlargement negotiations. the presidency of the council knows that it is counting on the best will of the member states, all of whom are aware of the importance of this undertaking, to carry this project forward. it also hopes to have the effective cooperation of the commission, which, after having presented the horizontal documents on regional policy, agriculture and the financial framework for enlargement and having heard the views of the fifteen, will, as i have already said, put on the council's table in the next few days proposals for a common position which can be acceptable to the fifteen and negotiable with the applicant countries. and i must say that the commission is doing an excellent job, and in particular the commissioner responsible for it, who is with us today and to whom i therefore wish to convey our thanks for his work. the presidency-in-office of the council also hopes to have the support of the candidate countries, which, apart from the considerable efforts they are making to adopt and apply the acquis effectively, will have to exercise realism at the negotiating table. the orientation debate which has already taken place in the council in its various formations: in the general affairs council, in the agriculture council, in the ecofin council - has made it clear to us that there are different sensitivities and views between the member states, and that is natural. but i am convinced that as we move forward in these discussions we will achieve coherent and solidary positions which can be accepted by the candidate countries, because in the end we must reach a solution which provides a fair balance between a whole series of imperatives: the first is the political priority of enlargement; the second is that the logic of the negotiations, that is, the transposition and effective application of the whole acquis, which is common, and which does not allow for differentiated systems, is respected. as we have said, the budget ceilings set in berlin must also be respected. and finally, we must face up to and respond well to the reasonable expectations of the candidates. i am fully confident that we will all be able to reach an agreement, avoiding the difficulties which are presently arising in these delicate chapters of the negotiations. in addition to adopting common positions on these chapters with financial implications and trying to close provisionally those chapters which, because of their particular difficulty, could not be closed at the appropriate time, we intend to tackle a whole series of tasks to facilitate the process. on the one hand, we will start the work of the committee responsible for drawing up the act of accession and all the instruments annexed thereto. this committee will start work immediately and in close coordination with the candidate countries. the commission will also be presenting an action plan this semester on the fulfilment of the third enlargement criterion, the so-called madrid criterion, on the effective application of the acquis by each of the candidate countries, an aspect which is of paramount importance in this last phase of the negotiations, and which will be examined by the european council in seville next june. we have also set ourselves the objective during our presidency of opening all the remaining chapters with bulgaria and, if possible, also with romania. of course, provided we have the information and the necessary elements, which must be provided to the council by the commission and by these two countries. there is no doubt that bulgaria and romania have made a considerable effort, which was recognised in laeken, and which i am pleased to highlight to this parliament; it is very important that we continue to send very positive messages to both countries as regards our commitment to their participation in the enlargement process, which must take place as soon as possible. i would also like to make a separate mention of the cyprus case. while their reunification is not a condition for their accession, it is clear that a solution to the present situation will greatly facilitate it. in any event, spain, as the presidency, will give its full support to the efforts of the united nations in this regard, and we are confident that the prospect of enlargement will be a stimulus to put an end to the division of the island. finally, in line with the laeken conclusions, the presidency will promote turkey's preaccession strategy, with a view to a new stage in the preparation of this country for its approximation to the acquis, and in view of its degree of compliance with the copenhagen political criteria, in order to set new objectives in its accession process. we have before us an important set of commitments and tasks throughout this semester, to ensure sustained progress in the negotiating process. the aim is to enable the european council in copenhagen at the end of this year to be able to conclude the negotiations with all those candidate countries which are really ready. we are convinced of the need to bring enlargement to a successful conclusion. there is a moral imperative to consider that madrid, barcelona, berlin or rome are as european as prague, budapest or ljubljana, but the cost of non-enlargement would be very serious for the current members of the european union and for the countries that do not join. as the spanish minister for foreign affairs, i would like to point out that the eurobarometer puts my country at the head of the countries whose citizens most strongly support enlargement and, of course, the spanish government is fully consistent with that desire of its citizens. in any case, the political situation in some member states, which, as we know, are facing upcoming elections, and the tragic events of 11 september, must not affect the enlargement process and will certainly not weaken our will to move forward, above all, towards the objectives which we have successively set ourselves in nice, gothenburg and laeken.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i would like to begin by thanking you very warmly, mr president, on behalf of the commission, for your statement on the situation in the middle east and to make it clear that the commission fully endorses your statement, the statement of the president of the council and the statement of the group chairmen. i believe that it is necessary at this hour to demonstrate the political unity and the common firm will of all the political institutions of the european union that the violence in the middle east must come to an end and that reason must be given a chance. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. if i may now come to the subject of our debate: the year 2002 is indeed a crucial year for enlargement. the european councils of gothenburg and laeken and the corresponding decisions of the european parliament have created such a political momentum and such a horizon of expectations that it is no longer possible to delay this process any further. any delaying tactic would now have uncontrollable and dangerous consequences and could endanger the political and economic stability already achieved in the entire area between the baltic and the black seas. the aim is to ensure that all candidate countries are sufficiently prepared to be admitted as new members before the 2004 european elections. that looks good, too. the negotiations are proceeding as planned. we're fully on schedule. thanks to the excellent cooperation with the spanish presidency, i am confident that during the spanish presidency we will be able to conclude all the negotiating chapters with the 10 countries identified in laeken as potential candidates for membership in 2004, with the exception of the financial package and the chapter on the institutions. as foreseen in the negotiating road map, the commission will present in the weeks immediately ahead draft common positions for the agricultural, regional, budgetary and institutional chapters. we also intend to open all the remaining negotiating chapters with bulgaria and romania this year and to present a more developed and strengthened preaccession strategy for these countries. i would now like to address some of the political issues that have emerged as potential problems and obstacles in the last few weeks, and in some cases in the last few days. first of all, i would like to take up the debate on the beneš decrees. the commission considers that this is not just a legal problem, but first and foremost a political and moral one, which the commission and many others have been trying to solve for years in many, many confidential discussions. in the commission's view, the beneš decrees, which refer to the expropriation of property, are contrary both to the current czech legal order and to the european legal order. they are therefore obsolete and no longer have any effect. we should therefore make a joint effort to return to the facts on this issue and not to question the enlargement process with issues that belong to the past. the aim must be to achieve an understanding which will enable all parties to maintain stable and lasting relations in a spirit of good neighbourliness and to shape together the future of europe. the question of whether the czech legal system has discriminatory effects on the transfer of property back to the country of origin is of course important for the coexistence within the european union. i have noted with satisfaction that the czech government is examining this question. i also welcome the fact that the european parliament has asked for an independent expert opinion on this. the commission is also currently reviewing all the legal aspects of this issue. i can inform you today that the czech government has already agreed with the commission to take action and to ask the czech legislator to amend the czech legal situation if it should be found that the current legal practice is not compatible with european law. another issue to which we must devote increased attention this year is the question of the future of the kaliningrad region. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the union's external relations are not affected by the crisis. the russian government has raised a number of questions on the problem of access, the problem of cross-border transport and the problem of energy supply. i believe that we must look at these issues in a global context with the overall development of the baltic sea region. it is much more than agreeing a transit arrangement, and it is much more than resolving the visa issue. we are seeking a solution to the transit and visa issues within the framework of the existing schengen acquis. the commission has already presented its ideas on all the issues to be regulated last year and has underlined its willingness to talk. these discussions must now be pursued in a targeted manner within the framework of the existing bodies between the european union and russia. i would like to make it clear, however, that special negotiations with russia on the kaliningrad question are not possible in the context of the enlargement process. we cannot negotiate the rights of third parties and, above all, we cannot make agreements to the detriment of third parties. the crucial question will be how to integrate the kaliningrad region into the dynamics of development in the baltic sea region. the real problem will be the growing socioeconomic gap between poland and lithuania on the one hand and the kaliningrad region on the other, if a way is not found to integrate kaliningrad into the region's developing stronger economic dynamics. we must reduce this gap so that the growth boost that enlargement will bring cannot give rise to social and political tensions in this part of the baltic sea region, because that is the real danger that the development gap will lead to social and political tensions that could be unleashed. let me say something else about cyprus: i have had the opportunity last week to hold a series of political talks in cyprus, in particular with the leaders of the two communities, mr kleridis and mr denktash. i have returned from cyprus feeling very encouraged. i have the impression that the two negotiators, in the direct talks currently under way to resolve the cyprus problem, are resolutely, seriously and actively pursuing the objective of a lasting political solution. there is no breakthrough yet, no concrete agreements have been reached, but i have seen convergence achieved which would not have been possible a relatively short time ago. i therefore want to encourage both sides once again to continue the talks constructively and to use the window of opportunity to reach agreement on a viable and lasting peace solution in time for the conclusion of the accession negotiations. i am particularly pleased that both mr kleridis and mr denktash have assured me that they will stick to the objective of reaching the outlines of a political agreement by june this year. the commission is continuing its intensive contacts with the united nations to ensure that a political solution is compatible with the existing rules of european law. we believe that it is essential for cyprus, as a subject of international law, to be able to act internationally, to speak with one voice in the institutions of the european union and to implement and enforce in its own country what it has undertaken in terms of international obligations. the commission presented its proposals for a common financial framework for enlargement on 30 january. we are pursuing the objective of ensuring the coherence of the negotiations on agricultural policy, structural policy and the budgetary chapter. we also want to achieve enlargement on terms acceptable to all sides. there can be and there will be no second-class membership. however, enlargement must be well financed and also be predictable in the long term. in preparing its common negotiating position in the coming weeks, the commission will be guided by the following principles: firstly, the rules of the game have been clear since the decision on agenda 2000 in berlin in 1999. the global ceilings of berlin will not be exceeded, even if we now take in up to 10 new member states, whereas the berlin decisions have been based on six new members. secondly, the new member states should in principle participate in all common policies, in some cases only after agreed transitional periods, although it should be noted that transitional periods are requested both by the candidate countries and in some cases by us. thirdly, the new member states should not be in a worse financial position after accession than before. it goes without saying that we cannot tolerate the poorest members we will have paying for the richer members in the first few years of membership. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the same applies to agricultural policy. the commission's proposals therefore do not prejudge the next financial perspective for the period after 2006. as you know, our package is primarily a structural aid package because this is where the greatest need is. maybe i should just name the number. of the total package, 76% is earmarked for structural and cohesion measures and rural development measures alone. 76 per cent of the total financial package will be direct investment in the development of these countries. we are proposing an increase in appropriations for the cohesion fund only, not for the structural funds. the emphasis is on projects in the fields of environment and transport infrastructure, where there is also the greatest need and where the candidate countries have also made commitments in the negotiations which we must help them to fulfil. the commission considers it necessary to give particular attention to rural development. it is about actively promoting structural measures in rural areas and seizing the opportunity for restructuring. it is true that no specific calculations were made in berlin for the period up to 2006 on direct income support for farmers. i must point out, however, that in the accompanying memoranda to agenda 2000 the commission has mentioned three times that the acquis is uniform, that there cannot be two systems of agricultural policy side by side in the long term and that direct aids are part of the acquis. we must therefore deal with this issue in the negotiations. the new member states will pay full budgetary contributions after accession, while some structural and agricultural measures will take some time to become effective. the commission will therefore make provision, as in previous enlargement rounds, for a flat-rate budgetary compensation in principle. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission considers that a package is on the table which is politically and materially balanced. the concept stands. the negotiations are progressing rapidly. the next stage is clearly outlined. until the seville european council, the aim will be to establish a common eu negotiating position on agricultural policy, structural policy, the budgetary chapter and the institutional chapter, and i am confident that this will be achieved, following the way the council has been discussing this matter so far. the commission will also present a report to the seville european council on the implementation of the action plans for administrative capacity building in the candidate countries. the european council, under the danish presidency, will be discussing the 2002 progress reports at the end of october and will be examining specific recommendations from the commission. these concrete recommendations by the commission in october 2002 will relate to which candidate countries the negotiations can be formally concluded with at the european council in copenhagen at the end of this year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the european union's policy on asylum and immigration, and will continue to support the implementation of the european union's policy on asylum and immigration. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. our group of the european people's party/european democrats supports the general orientations of both the president of the council and commissioner verheugen. the commissioner concluded by saying that the support of the european parliament is indispensable, and he was right. we also hope that this whole process we are now in will lead to a result where both the council and the commission and the european parliament can say that we are satisfied with the result and we agree with the outcome of the negotiations. the president of the council, like the member of the commission, mr verheugen, once again stressed the timing. it was our group that proposed that the negotiations should be conducted in such a way that the first countries to join the union could participate in the 2004 european elections. this is why we must conclude the negotiations by the end of this year, and at the latest by the beginning of 2003. i hope that this will be possible under the danish presidency, because then the circle would be closed with the definition of the copenhagen criteria ten years ago and now the conclusion of the negotiations. it is also a particularly beautiful symbol that spain now has the presidency in this important phase, a country of the south which now also puts the importance of central europe at the centre. we are also expressing our common political intention that the enlargement of the european union - which of course also concerns cyprus and malta, but essentially the central european countries - is not a matter of the interest of a few member states of the european union, but is in our common interest, that of all the member states of the european union. of course, there is still a lot of work to be done, we all know that. we should not give any country a guarantee today and say, 'you are definitely in this', but each country must make an effort so that we can also achieve satisfactory results in the end. we know that there are many chapters that have yet to be negotiated. we hope that it will produce results. but we also say that there is a confidence - i am not an agricultural expert, but i would like to say this explicitly on my part - for our farmers in the european union with agenda 2000 and with the mid-term review that commissioner fischler will present, we do not link any things that are not actually related to enlargement, but we also want to give our farmers a confidence. mr commissioner, mr president-in-office, we have been talking about kaliningrad. i strongly support that, mr verheugen, that you have mentioned that. i have recently spoken to the mayor of pillau, in the western part of the kaliningrad oblast, and there is a great deal of interest in being able to contact the commission directly in brussels and that not everything goes through moscow, because the roads through moscow are long. perhaps we can also ensure in our talks with russia that there are direct, direct contacts between kaliningrad, the former königsberg, and the european union and its member states. i would also like to mention ukraine. we know that western ukraine was former eastern poland. of course, we must guarantee the security of the borders - and we must do everything possible to ensure that the mafia and drug and serious crime cannot cross this eastern polish border into the european union - but we should also be flexible so that people who have connections across the border, who live in western ukraine and are of polish origin, also have flexible solutions for encounters with poland, so that there is no new iron curtain between people. i believe that this is of great importance for our relations with ukraine. i believe we have a common task - the council, the commission and parliament: we still have a lot of work to do to convince the applicant countries, but also the european union, that the membership of the countries of central europe and also malta and cyprus is a huge opportunity for the european union - and especially for the countries of central europe - for stability on our continent. but it is also an economic opportunity, because trade with the central european countries, between the european union and these countries, is now almost as large as our trade with the united states of america. this sets in motion a dynamic which is to the advantage of all of us. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, and it is not only a political union, but also a political union. the enlargement to the east and our relations with the mediterranean countries, the arab and islamic worlds have the same priority. if we act as the european union with determination, courage and a vision of the future, i believe we can also make a major contribution to peace and stability in our neighbourhood, both in the east and in the south of the european union. i believe that this is the joint task of the council, the commission and parliament. if we do this together, you will have our full support in the commission and in the council! (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner verheugen was quite right when he said that we are in the final stage of an irreversible process. the enlargement process cannot be stopped any longer, and anyone who wants to delay it would be making a grave mistake and also an unhistoric step. and no one in this house, i think, wants to stop them. but this irreversible process requires both sides. we have discussed the candidates, the tasks that the candidate countries have to perform. there's a lot of truth in that. but we must also take a critical look at ourselves and ask ourselves where we stand in this final phase. does the european union itself not, on the eve of its enlargement, still have deficits and unfinished business? i would like to turn to two aspects of the debate over the last year and a half and to a period ahead. after nice, we heard from all those involved in the then council presidency, from the commission, that with nice the union was now capable of enlargement, and there were even colleagues in this house who also emphasized this very strongly. the vast majority of members in the european parliament thought that this was not the case. this parliament has taken the initiative of initiating a post-nice process, as it was called at the time, which, thank god, has resulted in the convening of a convention which must now remedy the shortcomings we have in enlargement, particularly institutional ones. the treaty of nice was adopted and it has not been followed up, particularly in the areas of simplification of decision-making mechanisms, reform of the council, structural reform of the commission and democratisation. the fact is that a mechanism for majority voting was adopted in nice, which was more of a complication than a simplification. if we are to proceed with enlargement on the basis of these structures, then - and you are right, mr verheugen - it cannot be stopped and will continue to be necessary and historically correct. but it would lead to a dangerous stagnation of the european union, and this stagnation would make people even more threatened to turn away from the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the convention must make the european union truly capable of enlargement. you have indicated that the european parliament should provide support for this. the european parliament is an important partner in two ways. we are an important partner because we will ensure that the necessary democratic reforms within the european union are actually carried out before accession, that is, until the european elections. we will also ensure that we, as part of the budgetary authority, can manage the financial needs to a reasonable degree. as commissioner verheugen rightly pointed out, the ceilings are clear, but there are still serious problems to be solved within those ceilings. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this means that over the next two years we as the european parliament must make it very clear that we are partners with the council and the commission in the enlargement policy. we are a supportive partner, but we are also a partner who will critically accompany the commission and the council in the democratization, reform and financing of the process. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, mr commissioner, mr president of the council! i must say, it's an amazing transformation to witness. while we have always been inventing new, powerful names for the enlargement of the european union - i recall: europe's work of the century, the peace project for the continent - a new name has been added in recent weeks, namely, the savings bank enlargement. the 15 eu finance ministers will save €18 billion on this project of the century compared with the berlin financial decision! it is not that the financial decision of berlin was taken a little high because it was overestimated. no, on the contrary, there was criticism even then that this will not be enough for enlargement. but because of the fear of the net contributors, it was said: we still have the reserves; we can then mobilise them. but the opposite is true, and for weeks the commission has been saying: enlargement must not cost anything. i think that the world is playing out the wrong way, because a peace project costs something. there can be no two-class europe, because that creates social tensions, migration and backwardness. that is why we greens are calling for a revision of the financial proposals. it is not true that the rural areas and the structural funds are receiving more. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in fact, the 15 billion which are to be returned in 2002 and 2003 directly to the finance ministers of the 15 eu countries would have to be used for enlargement. i also believe that transitional periods are possible until 2007 at the latest. the commission's proposal is a petty one and a sign of its poverty if it tries to delay the phasing-in process until 2007. that means no reform of the agricultural policy and that means wanting to postpone the midterm review which requires the european union to do its homework. we're not taking this with us. we need an agricultural policy in which aid is linked to ecological and social criteria and projects are financed only if the reform is supported. but the accession countries must be equal members of this reform! the commission has not yet adopted the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. i think the commission must no longer be petty, it must have the courage to reform, it must have the courage to say that enlargement costs something, because it is to be a successful project. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. the union has gone through several enlargements in its 50-year history. but never has there been such inequality as in this round. in fact, the admission of new members is not carried out on a consistent basis of equality and solidarity. the debate on the czech republic seems intolerable to me. the so-called beneš decrees and the questions of ownership must not be allowed to override the international legal character of the two plus four process in the unification of the two german states. if you want russia on your side, wherever it is, you should not make any wrong move on kaliningrad. the accession process is seen as more than a one-way street from brussels' point of view; mr schulz has spoken about this. while candidates are required to accept unconditional duties and services, the cost of membership should be kept to a minimum. the opening up of markets is already a good deal for companies, banks and insurance companies. but it has been shown that the support for the accession of other countries, including spain, has been much better. the candidate countries have on average less than half the gross domestic product of the european union, the three baltic states only a third. some of the countries' production levels are still below the 1990 level. this means that the preliminary services have not become very tangible. a re-design of structural and cohesion policy is needed to ensure that the less developed regions in both the current and future member states have adequate support in general and in the border regions in particular. we need concepts that will really convince the citizens of the applicant countries that joining the union is right and useful for them.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the comments by commissioner verheugen on the beneš decrees, which i expressly welcome, mark a remarkable change in the commission's attitude. in these matters, commissioner, many initiatives have always been seen as bilateral issues which must not be placed in the context of european enlargement negotiations. i would like to thank you for having cleared this obviously untenable position. obviously this was also under the influence of the public debate initiated by mr zeman, who, and this should be noted here, went so far as to advise the israelis - which i consider to be the most outrageous thing he has said - to treat the palestinians as the czechs treated hungary and the sudeten germans after the last world war. in any case, such an attitude has no place in the european union. i therefore expressly welcome the fact that you, mr verheugen, have put the debate on these decrees in the context of the european legal order, recognising that they also raise political and moral issues which are in conflict with the eu legal order and which are in fact obsolete because they will no longer have any legal effect within the eu in the future, and that it is now up to us to ensure, in the spirit of good neighbourliness, that they do not constitute obstacles to enlargement. that raises questions that need to be clarified. if they are as baseless as the czech government claims, why are they not unequivocally abolished? but if they are not without purpose and are currently developing legal practice, as there is unfortunately a great deal of evidence, how can they be reconciled with the european legal order? and above all, the central question: how does the czech government deal not only with excesses but with the expulsion of entire ethnic groups as such, with something that we have unfortunately had to learn to call ethnic cleansing. it is therefore extremely welcome that the committee on foreign affairs now wants to launch an inquiry, because these questions concern not only the concept of the eu as a community of law, but also the fundamental foundations of the european union. these questions must be settled before we can actually complete enlargement successfully. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the enlargement of the european union is an effort. an effort for 500 million people on this continent. the european union is a community of people, 500 million people in the 15 member states and in the countries that want to join. but it is not, as you said, mr verheugen, an effort which we must make now, from which we can no longer move, but an effort which we want to make because we want to create a community of solidarity for a future europe, where future generations can work together in peace and economically successfully on good social foundations, under ecologically optimal conditions. we must be worth this effort, not only in terms of personal commitment, not only in terms of political commitment, not only in terms of lobbying for people's support, but also in terms of very concrete figures with which to support the project; and that means that we have to think about it, and that's not just a concern for the population, but it's also an important issue of how we can represent financially the individual steps that need to be taken. i am naturally very careful about this as a householder. we have now heard that we can manage all this within the framework of the vision agreed in berlin in 1999. all that the commission has put forward is in fact sufficient until 2006. but of course, in all these columns of numbers, there are some things we need to discuss. mr verheugen himself has mentioned one. it is unreasonable that the new countries which join can be net contributors from the outset. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have described pre-accession assistance in this financial perspective. the commission has also been active in the field of education and training, and has been involved in the development of the european union's policy on education and training. but they did not. yet the three billion remain the same over the years. if, in fact, 10 countries join in 2004, the remaining 3 billion would be allocated to two countries, namely bulgaria and romania. you have to talk about what it's really meant to be, how it's to be done. finally, we must also think about what happens after 2006. we cannot simply say that we have enough until 2006 and then move on. you said that the ratio between the structural funds and agricultural policy is 75: 25. in our present budget the ratio is 45:35, in favour of the agricultural policy. we can't change it so massively that it would be true by the time you said it. which means we need to talk about exactly how this is going to go. we shall be following this up in the budget in a very constructive but very critical manner. mr president-in-office, you introduced us to the subject this morning. a request, with all due respect to you and your office. in your entire speech you did not mention the european parliament once as one of the players in these enlargement negotiations. we are budgetary legislators just as the council is. it would be nice if you would consider us in your approach. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. there is no doubt that agriculture is certainly one of the most difficult chapters in the enlargement process. so i'd like to send one in advance right at the beginning. there can be no linkage, no juxtaposition between a reform of the common agricultural policy and the accession of the countries, even though some would like to see it that way. the two must be treated separately, but that does not mean that a whole series of requirements and rules must not be met by both sides. firstly, it is necessary to ensure the full adoption of the acquis communautaire, in particular as regards veterinary and phytosanitary matters, food safety quality standards and compliance with animal welfare rules. the fact that there will be isolated temporary transitional rules in some sectors is beyond question. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the cap is not only a good instrument for the development of the regions, but also a means of ensuring that the regions are able to benefit from the cap. we also support the commission's proposals to make direct payments to the new member states gradually and in the form of non-production area-related payments after their accession and to increase substantially the appropriations for non-production rural development programmes so that social distortions do not occur in countries such as poland. agriculture and rural development are still a central factor in these countries and will remain so for a long time. and not just there, by the way. the eu must make multifunctional agriculture in all its facets the basis of its support and thus further develop the second pillar, not only with regard to the wto negotiations. i would like to make it clear once again that the idea of solidarity which dominates and characterizes our community must not be undermined or abolished. this does not mean, however, that the common agricultural policy does not need to be reformed, both in our country and in the candidate countries, with or without enlargement. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the cap is not affected by the crisis. the council presidency: perhaps it is now dawning on some that in 1999 when the agenda 2000 negotiations were taking place, it might have been a little more sensible to think a little less nationally and more european. the council has not yet adopted the common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. we as a parliament want enlargement and therefore the reunification of europe, and i am sure that the agricultural chapter will not fail, and that is what commissioners fischler and günter verheugen will ensure. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. i would like to remind you at the outset that this european parliament will have to give its consent not only to the country-by-country enlargement agreement but also to the corresponding transfers of funds under article 25 of the interinstitutional agreement by an absolute majority of members and three quarters of the votes cast, and it is therefore good that both the commission and the council involve parliament in the negotiations from the outset. what's this about? the first thing to do is to complete the midterm review, as decided in berlin under the german presidency. secondly, to initiate the development of community policies for the period after 2006, always taking into account the parallelism between eastern enlargement and the world trade round, and i say this explicitly: too much ambition jeopardises the timetable for enlargement. i would also like to make it clear that i consider the commission's current proposals, for example in the area of agricultural policy, to be budgetary. it is certainly also a matter of discussing, in the context of structural policies, how we can develop adjustment scenarios for the structural funds. i agree with mr walter. we will also have to discuss this when we have special arrangements for the cohesion fund. will they be valid until 2006 or will they be fixed for a further period after 2006? there's a little devil in the details here. let us not be fooled; we will also have to ask whether the lack of implementation of pre-accession assistance to date is the litmus test for the applicants' ability to implement and join, or whether we ourselves have made things so complicated that no one can cope with them. i therefore hope that the convention will produce conclusive results for the capacity of the institutions to act, for the concentration of competence that will be necessary, and i add that i personally have doubts whether what we are discussing at the moment in terms of capacity to act and language regulation will really be the final solution. let us remember one thing above all: we need solutions that are able to win the support of the majority, not only in the parliamentary bodies, but also in the people of both the new and the old member states of the eu. in that spirit, let us get to work together! (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the council has taken the initiative of adopting this report. i am particularly grateful to mr lagendijk for having identified the critical moments so clearly. i think it is pointless to hide the problems in the current relations with the united states with cowardice in front of the friend. it seems to me that it is urgently necessary, i should like to use a superlative, that we discuss the transatlantic relationship very openly. and that, mr president-in-office, is where the difference begins, what was not said, what was not dealt with by you. we are not at present, obviously, prepared to admit that the european union's role in international relations is in danger. we don't have the courage to admit our differences with the united states. we do not have the courage to admit that there can hardly be any question of a common foreign and security policy at the moment. there are also very important developments outside the steel sector. i am glad that at least the european economy is naming its differences and not just articulating unlimited support. we have the withdrawal from the abm treaty, we have unilateral declarations with clear violations of the law. the problem in such cases is always that those who have headphones can hear you, while those who are standing and talking can't hear you at all. we have a unilateral declaration from the united states on the non-proliferation treaty. we have the b-weapon control blockade. we have a dismantling of the control organization of the c-weapons treaty by the united states. we have the announcement to withdraw from the space weapons treaty. we have violations of international humanitarian law, the withdrawal from kyoto, the non-ratification of the international protocol to the international criminal court. i do not want to list this as a negative scenario, but it is obvious that there are very big differences with europe, and what has been said about nuclear weapons, one can only agree with my colleague joost lagendijk. i'm sure there are more macabre ideas in the plans of both the us and probably russia, but to go public with them is obviously aimed at humiliating russia, which has been so eager to support the us. i am pleased to see that the european union is opposing this development with genuine multilateralism and the strengthening of the un, that it is taking advantage of its opportunity as a civil power, as a power that practices preventive conflict resolution, and that it is actually developing a common foreign policy. the most important prerequisite for this would be to remove all the similarities and to remove these very differences from the blind spot of european politics.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. we have now adopted six amendments to the rules of procedure by the necessary majority; i am not going to go into the details of the procedure, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commissioner has now taken the initiative to put the matter to the vote. that would be a sort of final vote, but i do not think it is necessary under rule 180 (2) of the rules of procedure. i therefore ask that we abstain from voting on paragraph 1. we are also getting away from another problem: paragraph 1 would have to be adopted by 314 votes, while paragraph 2 would have to be adopted by a simple majority.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. amendments nos 1 and 10, which were adopted by a majority in the committee on the environment, deal with the prohibition and the destruction and use of food waste. the rapporteur has now tabled a compromise amendment no 25; the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. it contains different dates. the amendments adopted by the committee on the environment are dated 30 june 2002. in amendment no 25 by mrs paulsen, the time is 'before the entry into force of this regulation', which is what we are voting on now. i would like to put the oral amendment that the two amendments adopted by the committee on the environment should also include the date 'before the entry into force of this regulation' and that we should vote in favour of this. yesterday the commission said that it would not accept 1 and 10 or 25. so we are going to debate this anyway, and it is therefore important that we vote on all three amendments in this form. but even if this oral amendment is rejected by the necessary majority - and i will say this in a moment, i do not need to say it again - we can still put these amendments to the vote because the commission is not bound by this deadline. it has the right of initiative and can decide anyway. it is a recommendation, and if it does not pass now, i am in favour of accepting all three amendments.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to go. we have, of course, made some decisions on the electrical part, but we must now be careful not to collide too much with the gas part. i therefore ask you to give me the floor on three points: firstly, at the en bloc vote, then later on amendment no 162 and then again on amendments nos 149 and 184. these are not comments on the content, but on the adaptation. if i may now comment on the first block: we have just voted against liberal amendment no 173 by name. the problem is that we have not reached a decision on this issue in the committee on electricity, but we have reached a decision on gas. the liberal group has now tried to apply what we have done to gas to electricity in parallel. we refused. but we now have in amendment no 147, which is part of this block, exactly the same point which we have just rejected in terms of content in the case of electricity. we prefer something in the gas sector that we do not want in the electricity sector, namely the procedure for opening up the market, as we propose in the committee. we want to open up gas with a delay compared to electricity. now we're gonna break the system right here. i mean, by analogy we should be against no 147 but i don't know how we do it in the procedural sense because it is in the voting list in the block. i am not saying that the commission is not prepared to accept amendment no 147, but i am saying that it is not. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i hope that was unclear enough. (cheers and applause)
- mr president, i have to go. so this is a little bit easier than what we just did. this is just about cleaning something up. firstly, we want to bring the decision on electricity, which we have taken together with the ppe and pse, into line with the decision we are now taking on gas. it's exactly what we decided on before with the electricity. but that means, according to the logic of the voting list, that we must first vote against the committee's motion and then vote for motion 162. however, an error has occurred in the transmission. we have decided exactly that in the case of electricity, on article 8 (5). amendment no 162 now also contains the words 'article 8 (5) '. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's just a technical adjustment. (applause from the centre)
mr president, we are again dealing with an adjustment, which is a little more complicated than it was just now. (cheers and applause) you don't have to listen to me, you just have to do what i say, and it's easy. (cheers and applause) but fun aside. we have just voted on the relevant part concerning electricity. that is what the committee's amendment says. the motion by the group of the european people's party seeks to remove a discrepancy between article 14, which concerns the gas sector, and article 22, and rightly so, i must say this explicitly in order to achieve rigor. but if we now vote only on the ppe motion, then the essential aspect concerning the electricity sector would of course be lost. on the other hand, if we vote as it says in the voting list here, namely that amendment no 184 is obsolete when amendment no 149 is adopted, then we have again the problem of inconsistency with the other article. that is why the following proposal is made, and i have discussed it with the rapporteur, who will then confirm it: first we vote on amendment no 149 by the committee, then the ppe withdraws its amendment, except for the part which removes this inconsistency. it would then be added to no. 149. then we would have cleaned up the inconsistency between electricity and gas and inside the gas. (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to go. we've had two minor editorial errors. the first mistake is in amendment no 48. it must be in the plural 'competent authorities'; that was not disputed between the council and parliament. this was merely a mistake in the wording of the amendment. we also made a small mistake on amendment no 52. there are two words missing from the written formulation. but it is precisely in the case of no 52 that the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection is opposed. i therefore ask that the two oral amendments be accepted and voted on accordingly. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. i thank you very much for allowing me to table the oral amendment and also to state the reasons for it. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. this is a little annoying for the motion, but it does not change the fact that parliament has now called in compromise motion 25 for the commission to make a legislative proposal. we are then in the co-decision procedure and then we will regulate it in a separate regulation. i would appeal to the states which have so far only advocated a ban, to ensure that these substances, which are dangerous if not handled properly, are properly disposed of. i expect the commission to exercise its control functions during this transitional period until a regulation is in place to regulate everything, so that we do not have to suffer again the disasters we have experienced - foot-and-mouth disease, swine fever - which can come from untreated food waste. (applause from the centre)
in writing. - (de) it is necessary to deal with this issue, because many women are the object of fundamentalist discrimination. however, this report does not address this issue and gives the impression that fundamentalism is exclusive to a few religions. it ignores the political, social and ideological fundamentalism which women are victims of and which has devastating consequences for their quality of life. such a shortcut is contrary to the system of ethical and christian values. this coup purely motivated by anti-religious sentiment misses the main objective of properly addressing the theme of "women and fundamentalism". the report is unbalanced, full of contradictions and categorical, and it bypasses the fight against discrimination against women as a whole. freedom of belief and protection against discrimination are essential elements of fundamental rights and should not be used against each other. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. - i abstained on this report. it is important that women's rights are guaranteed. fundamentalism is present in all sectors of society and not only in the islamic religion, as the report repeatedly points out. the report is one-sided and only criticizes a few states for not recognizing women's rights.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the transatlantic trade relationship has been subject to periodic strains in recent years. we have been able to resolve many trade disputes in a mutually satisfactory and professional manner, but only because we have submitted ourselves to binding rules for free and fair world trade in the wto framework, also because the wto is the only international organisation with a dispute settlement system that also includes sanctions. the united states, however, by imposing punitive duties on steel imports, is abandoning the common ground on which we have hitherto operated within the wto. it is with great incomprehension that we europeans must see these measures, since they are primarily aimed at our steel products. almost half of european steel exports to the usa are affected by these penalties. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we're not ready for this. we will not support the us game of playing the interests of its workers against the interests of our workers. the european steel industry has been able to restructure itself very successfully in recent years, but it has been accompanied by large job losses, and this has been very painful. it must be clear to the us that it is not in its interest to undermine confidence in the multilateral rules and the impartial dispute settlement system of the wto at the start of the doha round. the bilateral contacts with the united states should show the american partner that the european union is determined not only to accept this serious and unjustified interference in world trade, but also to draw attention to the instruments at the eu's disposal at the present time. why is the commission not considering the use of the instruments it has been given by the american export promotion panel, namely countermeasures? i think it would be necessary now to make this clear to the united states.
- mr president, mr president-in-office of the council and commission, ladies and gentlemen! let me take up a few words from this morning. i believe that transatlantic relations will be regularly put to the test. this is not a new issue, this is not a new dispute that we have now. steel is an old subject. we should, as many colleagues have suggested, take the appropriate measures. but we should also use reason and wisdom and foresight. the president-in-office of the council pointed out that our relations were historic, that we shared many common values, but that we had to move from a crisis dynamic to a dialogue dynamic. i would agree with him on that. but this also means that the council must consider new initiatives. it was the spanish presidency of the council which established the new transatlantic agenda. i think it should be the spanish presidency of the council that does the analysis and the review and then comes up with new proposals at the next summit. i would ask you what you have worked out so far and what will be the proposals of the spanish presidency on this? we need an update. my colleague james elles said that this morning. we need a european union strategy that goes beyond the existing one. the commission's proposal is a good one, but it is not sufficient and it does not take all the factors into account. it does not include the european union's strategy clearly enough. commissioner lamy said today that he was looking at a number of areas. he mentioned intellectual property, auditing, and other things. i shall make suggestions in my own report, which i shall be presenting on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy together with my colleague james elles for the committee on foreign affairs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this does not mean that trade disputes should be embellished by this, on the contrary. we'll be a small delegation in toledo on monday. the us and wto are on the agenda. perhaps you could tell us a little bit about how we're going to proceed at this meeting.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. we have asked these questions, firstly to obtain clarification, and secondly to get the matter moving. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it has only been stated, but no explanation has been given. we have taken the council seriously since tampere when you announced that third-country nationals, that is to say citizens of third countries who live and work in the eu, who are legally resident in the eu and who are not from the 15 member states, should be given the same conditions as eu citizens. the european institutions wanted more clarity and transparency, and not just after the convention. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is also annoying because they exclude the co-decision of parliament. what a short-sighted strategy on the part of the commission! you know that we have always stood by your side in modernising, in changing, in improving for the workers and the workers of europe. if you shut down parliament now, i think that is not only shortsighted but also a dangerous strategy. it is possible that the united kingdom, ireland and denmark could request an opt-out from regulation 1408, and that would be fatal indeed, because no one in this house would welcome a new opt-out in social policy. it would be a patchwork of social policy and would certainly not confirm and inspire the confidence of workers that they should have in the european institutions. we are all glad that britain has stopped opting out in social policy. is that how we want to reintroduce it? the second reason for our request was, of course, to bring movement into the reform plans. i remember that a modernisation of this directive was promised back in edinburgh in 1992. you know, a modernization. i would like to remind the audience once again that regulation 1408 does not mean harmonization of social systems, but coordination, so to speak, of the framework conditions to encourage and support citizens in taking advantage of their mobility opportunities in europe. every few weeks there are new appeals from the council and the commission to young people, to workers, to citizens to make use of this mobility. but the framework conditions, i will quote it here, are a very complicated and cumbersome piece of legislation. in germany, we would say that even for the initiated, it is a book with seven seals. the 12 parameters we have now are not the qualitative improvement we promised ourselves. i share the criticism of my colleagues lambert and oomen-ruijten, of course, but also the criticism you, mr solbes, have made on behalf of the commission. what i've also been missing is the time frame. we had expected the spanish presidency to come forward with a proper, reasonable and effective proposal by june.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur very warmly for his good cooperation. i would like to add a few words to the report. in lisbon, it was loudly proclaimed that we would be number one in the world. now it is foreseeable that things will not go as fast as some had hoped. in the meantime, you might also consider whether this goal was not too ambitious. maybe we should be honest and bury this target. a lot of things are being put on 9/11 and claiming that it was actually related to the economic collapse in the united states. the tragic events of 11 september have certainly given a further negative boost to this, but the negative economic development in europe had already begun. from a german point of view, in particular, it should also be borne in mind that germany is the largest economy in the european union and that the countries that are economically much more closely interwoven with the united states, such as the netherlands, such as the united kingdom, have far fewer problems than we do. we should turn away from that. i am afraid, however, that the barcelona summit will once again proclaim great goals, but not do its homework. finally, europe must not create expectations which the european union cannot meet with its powers, but the member states should take seriously after each summit what they announce at home and do their homework, such as making the labour market more flexible and introducing appropriate tax reforms. i would also caution against talking about coordination at european level: coordination at european level could bring additional 'sham' competences to this level. but ultimately, nothing can be done about it. what we need at european level is an offensive on smes. it is the smes that will create jobs in the future, we assume that nine out of ten jobs will be created in the future in companies with up to a thousand employees: here it is important to create the framework conditions so that smes are not overburdened by bureaucratization, by the large expenditure that is being made in brussels, and that there will also be corresponding start-up funding in the future in the national states. in the end, however, it is also important that we take a clear position on this. this is also reflected in the debate on the blue letter. i would like to thank the commission and commissioner solbes for insisting that the 3% should be strictly adhered to. the discussions in this area in recent months have not only damaged the stability and growth market, but also the image of europe and the economy in europe and the euro. we should turn away from this, we should believe in our own economic strength. we cannot say that the americans need economic recovery so that europe can have it, but that we should get there by our own strength and conviction. i would like to conclude by saying a few words. i just heard someone say, "coordinate government intervention". i can only warn you! the best social policy is a good economic policy. (applause from the centre)
- i'm sorry, but i'm afraid i have to interrupt. you've gone 22 seconds over the three-minute mark. please respect the time limit.
- mr president, i have to go. i would like to continue with what mr karas has left out, namely equal opportunities in competition. yes, we have a single market, but we actually have 15 national frameworks in this single market. we're not on equal footing with them. we do not have equal opportunities for competition between large companies and small and mediumsized enterprises, for example because there are already very different taxation systems, nor equal opportunities between global and regional companies. we do not have a level playing field when we look at the overall distribution systems in the national states and how market access is guaranteed. if we talk about becoming the most dynamic economic region in the world, that means we have to increase economic power. in simple terms, it means that we either rationalize, which is in the interests of business, but not in the national economic interest, because we are, of course, freeing up labour. or we can increase sales. if we want to increase sales, we need a market. market means we need buyers. buyers mean they have to have money. that means we have to boost demand. demand has to come from public investment, it has to come from private investment; that is, people have to also earn enough income from employment to be able to buy the products at all. i don't care if the product is the best, the most qualified, the most sustainable, the cheapest, if there's no buyer who can afford it. i therefore simply believe that this contrast, which is always made, between economic policy and social policy, cannot be correct. mr radwan, you said that the best economic policy is also the best social policy. i would also like to reverse it: good social policy is also good economic policy. because then we're on the same page. that's why investing is part of it. i do not see education as a consumption, but as an investment in the future, because i have to develop new products. i need the right people to do that. this means that it must also be integrated into this whole framework of investment activity.
- mr president, i have to go. even the old communist markov has nothing new to say! we are talking about the trentin report, which we unanimously adopted in committee and which is intended to provide guidelines for economic policy for a decision-making process in which the commission is next called upon. in this system of coordination and opinion-forming, parliament wants to have an influence relatively early on, without us offering a warehouse catalogue. it is not just self-employment, but article 4 of the ec treaty expressly requires this common economic policy, this coordinated economic and financial policy. and mr markov, it also states that the model is based on the principle of an open market economy with free competition. this is our principle, and that is why - not because our group wants it, but because it is on the commission's programme - we are putting the enforcement of the internal market, the further liberalisation of public services, the fact that we have to prepare ourselves for competition on a world scale, the fact that we have to remove obstacles in the member states, we have to tackle reforms, in the foreground. the question arises, as mr radwan has pointed out: where is the competence of the commission and where is the competence of the member states? where is subsidiarity required and where must we act? i can only say that whatever the commission has proposed and whatever the parliament has decided, the council, that is to say the group of 15 governments, has in the past been more of a brake than a motor for this necessary european development, which is of course more necessary than ever because of the introduction of the euro as a currency. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this means that in the large countries where the reform backlog is particularly high, national reforms must be tackled.
the commission is aware of the fact that the council has not yet adopted the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. it is a good contribution to the broad economic policy guidelines we are going to discuss and i think that, as with our fundamental concerns, the report focuses on two objectives: a short-term objective - how to consolidate the nascent recovery and turn it into lasting growth in europe - and the second - how to tackle our growth potential problems and make progress on the lisbon objectives - a subject which is particularly attractive at this time just before the barcelona summit. i share with some of you the view that our difficulties do not begin with 9/11. we were already coming out of a situation of lower economic growth and i also share the view that the impact of the development of the american economy has been greater than we initially expected, but i think it must be acknowledged that the economic policy in the union during this period has been correct. the lower risk to price stability has been used by monetary authorities to cut interest rates, and fiscal policies have supported activity through the operation of automatic stabilisers and tax cuts that have occurred during this period. i do not share the view that we have had a procyclical policy. just look at the impact in percentage terms that automatic stabilisers have had in europe. the good conduct of macroeconomic policy is already enabling us to achieve good results. i think it can now be said that the slowdown has reached a low point in the last quarter of the year and that the main indicators show us a beginning of recovery. we are already working on the 2002 forecast round and i can already say that in our outlook growth is gathering momentum throughout the year and we think it will approach or even exceed potential growth by the end of the year. there are, however, two elements which are of particular interest to us: firstly, the behaviour of wages, which has been extremely cooperative during this period - both in terms of price stabilization and job creation - and which we hope will continue to behave in the same way. secondly, the need to use the recovery for budgetary consolidation. we think this is a fundamental element. the difficulties we have had to face in recent months have been mainly due to the failure to achieve a balanced budget or a budget surplus in the previous improvement in our economic situation. and in this connection it should not be inferred from my words - to which some of the speakers have referred - that i was in any case interested in entering into any internal political debate, but i simply wanted to recall something i have said many times and that is that, in my view, any tax reduction to meet our budgetary obligations must start from budgetary surpluses or must be compensated by spending cuts. that is all i have said, i have said it many times and i will say it again, but it does not seem to me to be the only thing that is consistent with our budgetary commitments. where should we go in the long run? we are certainly going to increase our growth potential, that is, we are going to put lisbon into action. and these are the objectives which we shall also find again in the broad guidelines of economic policy. how can we increase our production potential? in the report which the commission has sent to lisbon, we have already raised some of the challenges which we consider to be fundamental. it is true that lisbon is a ten-year programme. we are now considering what we should do in the next 12 months and, in that regard, we must define some priorities which we can consider to be fundamental, of course in the labour market. mr trentin has referred to this issue and in his motion for a resolution he already stresses the importance of continuing training, mobility, flexibility and security, as well as the non-wage labour costs, especially at the bottom of the scale. i agree with every one of these statements. i would like to add one point, however. i think we also have to think about the fact that work must compensate; we must have a system which enables us to encourage participation in work and, for this, it is essential to modernise tax systems and also social construction systems, as well as legislation on labour protection to promote employment. i think we must avoid the traps of unemployment which are undoubtedly a negative contribution to our situation. employment security must be based on training and qualifications, and this is a key asset for everyone. employment security based solely on strict protection legislation may be an advantage in the short term, but it certainly puts brakes on modernization and greater economic efficiency. as the resolution stresses, employment is not only a problem of wage costs, but also a problem of wage structures well adapted to productivity differentials in each sector of activity. in our report we also refer to goods and services, and your resolution also stresses the importance of integrated transport and service infrastructure networks, the need for a rigorous competition policy and the proposal to give consumers the choice between different service networks. the commission fully agrees with these contributions and we also stress the need to make further progress in investment in priority infrastructure projects, which we consider to be essential to stimulating our capacity for longterm growth. in our recent report on the implementation of the 2001 broad economic policy guidelines, we noted that in some network industries, the old players still hold high market shares, indicating that market opening is not yet the desirable one. it is therefore essential to move forward to have more robust competition that ultimately benefits citizens. a final point, which is particularly important, has been made by mr trentin and a number of others, and that is the need to pay greater attention to the knowledge economy. the resolution stresses the need to give greater importance to r & d. it is true that r & d is an essential factor for the sustainable increase of productivity and competitiveness, which are fundamental elements if we are to achieve that lisbon objective of making our economy the most competitive in the world. and it is true that there has been progress in r & d, but it is no less true that the progress in financial contribution is occurring mainly in the public sector, although the biggest differences in investment in this type of activity are in the private sector. this is certainly a point worth considering. i hope that lisbon will come to some conclusion in this respect and we will have to work to try to improve this situation, just as i think we should work to advance the community patent, which is a fundamental element for technological innovation. mr trentin has referred to other elements linked to the involvement of national parliaments. for the commission, nothing would satisfy us more than greater involvement of national parliaments in this kind of debate and you as a parliament, and especially the imac, have played an important role in the past in support of some initiatives of this kind, which have undoubtedly been enormously useful. in conclusion, i would say that the commission now considers that the broad economic policy guidelines, the basic document on guidelines, must continue to function in accordance with the lisbon agreement, and in this respect it is absolutely essential to take up any contribution that the european parliament may present to improve these guidelines. their contributions, together with the debates which will be held in lisbon, will be fundamental elements for the definition of our document which will be presented, as is usual, in april for discussion in the following months.
- thank you very much, commissioner solbes! the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at noon.
- the next item is the joint debate on the following three reports: - a5-0060/2002 by mr lipietz, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the supplementary supervision of credit institutions, insurance undertakings and investment firms in a financial conglomerate, amending council directives 73/239/eec, 79/267/eec, 92/49/eec, 92/96/eec, 93/6/eec and 93/22/eec and directives 98/78/ec and 2000/12/ec of the european parliament and of the council (com (2001) 213 - c5-0159/2001 - 2001/0095cod); - a5-0069/2002 by mr goebbels, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on insider dealing and market manipulation (market abuse) (com (2001) 281 - c5-0262/2001 - 2001/0118 (cod)); - a5-0072/2002 by mr huhne, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the prospectus to be published when securities are offered to the public or are admitted to trading (com (2001) 280 - c5-0263/2001 - 2001/0117 (cod)).
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs and internal market. - mr president, i have to go. i am the rapporteur on the market abuse directive for the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. we have of course tried to ensure that the main outcome of our discussions is that the directive is legally correct. the main problem we faced was the question of comitology. the original draft directive provided for a very general definition of market abuse and, in addition, confined the mass of details, the actual definitions, to the annex and made them available to comitology. we believe that criminal law - and this is criminal law - can only be decided by the legislator himself and not in a comitology procedure. we are therefore very grateful, first of all, that the rapporteur in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the economic committee as a whole have made the necessary adjustments, which are also in line with what the committee on legal affairs and the internal market wanted. the second legal aspect, which is essentially what we are concerned about, is that although we understood that the commission was seeking a results-oriented approach and not a fault-oriented approach, we now have the problem, and that is a general principle of law that without fault no criminal sanctions can be imposed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so, without any fault, you will not be able to make such sanctions! we also looked at the degree of culpability. in our view, market abuse is a crime very similar to other crimes against property, such as fraud. there is no such thing as negligent fraud or negligent theft. it is only done deliberately. for this reason, one of the wishes of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market was that intention should also be required as a matter of principle. we are very grateful to the rapporteur for being willing to incorporate these considerations of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market into his draft in the spirit of compromise. we have now only one last appeal to the council to ensure that fundamental rights are respected in its decision-making. this appeal is addressed to the finance ministers who are responsible for this, and for good reason! (applause from the centre)
- mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank the rapporteur and in particular the commission. we have also introduced the market players' area in the wogau report on comitology, and i think we have now worked very well in the area where i was shadow rapporteur for the financial conglomerates between the commission, the council, market players and parliament, in advance. this is an appeal to the commission to continue this good experience between market players, parliament and the commission, in order to avoid any irritation and possible misinterpretation in advance. we have done this relatively well and i think that this is the way we can work together in the future in a market-oriented way. it is often said that this is a technical report which is so complex. in the end, it also has a big impact. i am of course in agreement with the president's request to be very brief, but i would like to make one or two points, particularly the case of the enron scandal, which is mentioned again and again. i think we need to take the enron bust seriously, and we need to think about the right consequences here. one consequence could be, for example, how we deal with audit firms and consultancies in europe in the future. but ultimately, in this area, we also need to take account of developments, namely the emergence of more and more financial conglomerates, which are operating across borders, coming from the joint forum, accompanied in parallel by basel ii. it is our duty as the european parliament to ensure that citizens are protected, but that our companies also remain competitive in this global competition. we must make the necessary corrections here. i think we have worked them out here in parliament in a measured way, in dialogue, and we have been able to resolve many problems, and i think this can be a good example of how we are approaching these issues.
- mr president, i have to go. i would like to congratulate the three rapporteurs very warmly and i think that this cooperation should also serve as a model for the commission and the council to follow in the future. i think it is very important that the commission and the council should work to strengthen the european parliament's capacity to act in this area, as the lamfalussy report proposes, so that we can also exercise our democratic rights in the monitoring committee in an appropriate manner and with full respect for neutrality. the three directives to be discussed today and voted on tomorrow aim to overcome the fragmentation of european financial markets, to make them more attractive and competitive, but also to strengthen financial stability and consumer protection. the removal of barriers to market access and bureaucratic rules, the replacement of outdated and rigid supervisory structures with flexible and market-oriented supervisory rules and instruments are essential conditions for the creation of an integrated financial market and for ensuring the competitiveness of european financial service providers. however, they must not endanger financial stability and worsen consumer rights in cross-border transactions. we should make full transparency and strict regulatory and supervisory mechanisms, including appropriate sanctions, a quality feature of european financial markets. finally, it is also necessary to regain the confidence of many private investors in this form of savings, not least in the interests of building up a supplementary pension scheme with capital cover. we do not need declarations of good behaviour for this, but clear, binding and sanction-proof rules. this is also true of the financial conglomerates directive. it is certainly a decisive step forward in integration. in order to remain competitive in the face of globalisation and internationalisation of financial markets, european financial firms need to reposition themselves in the market, and the growing number of acquisitions and mergers in this context shows that this process is well under way. this structural adjustment to create internationally competitive enterprises is certainly to be welcomed. however, it must not lead to such financial groups and conglomerates increasingly escaping supervision, which is hitherto organised at national level and in most member states even at sectoral level. the enron case has generally highlighted the risk potential of many interlocking and poorly supervised financial groups. this directive creates an important single european legal basis for the cooperation of supervisory authorities, but also prevents the multiple use of own funds subject to the risk within a group. in order to avoid excessive administrative burdens, we rightly demand that the responsibility for the supervision of financial conglomerates and groups be transferred to a single supervisory authority, to be determined on the basis of legally defined criteria. it is also particularly important that we have fortunately managed to find a compromise solution, which my group fully endorses, with regard to the scope of the directive and also with regard to the multiple use of regulatory capital.
council. - mr president, i am not in a position to answer that question.
- mr president, i have to go. the situation in chechnya seems to be worsening, according to german press reports. we have very large reports in our newspapers that there are russian military death squads in chechnya and that a village has reported to the un because it has been visited 33 times for so-called purges. i would ask you to ensure that an eu delegation goes to chechnya to look at the situation and verify what it is really like, because journalists are only allowed to go there if they are accompanied by officers. the council of europe is present in chechnya, but the eu has not been present. so my question is: can you imagine sending an eu mission there?
- madam president! - what is it? in the face of increasingly complex financial instruments and the instantaneous transmission of data via the internet, it is not easy to distinguish between the appropriate use and misuse of inside information. in germany, for example, ten prosecutions were brought in twenty years, partly because the definition was not clear enough to save time and money on court proceedings. in line with the lamfalussy report and its parliamentary reply, the wogau report, our committee on economic and monetary affairs unanimously supported the comitology system. we were very much about redefining insider information. it is information that is not publicly available and that directly or indirectly affects issuers of financial instruments. if they were made public through traditional or electronic media, they could have a significant impact on prices or prices. manipulation occurs when information is deliberately false or misleading about important facts and can directly or indirectly benefit or profit third parties. we have also prevented a special regulation for journalists. they should not be treated differently from those who are guilty of market manipulation. the freedom of the press is guaranteed in all cases. we have adopted a guide for member states on the adoption of sanctions and other measures. we have adopted principles as proposals for the commission to exercise implementing powers. we have drawn up a list of financial instruments to ensure that new products are integrated into the scope of the directive. we have also stressed the importance of the so-called chinese walls as a preventive measure against market abuse, but we have also called for strict controls to be applied in the companies concerned. we agreed that a central authority should be set up or strengthened in each eu member state to exercise effective control. it is intended to combine the different competences of the national authorities and to work closely with similarly structured authorities in other countries. i consider it a great success that parliament, the commission and the council have agreed on most of these proposals. it is also largely due to the rapporteur, mr goebbels. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the revised directive, which is also adapted to new developments, should lead to more coherence in european financial markets and ultimately to greater confidence among investors: a good prospect for a particularly sensitive sector of our globalised economy!
- madam president! - what is it? first of all, i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr pérez royo, very much for his report, which makes it very clear what progress still needs to be made in this area. i would also like to thank mr della vedova very much for his balanced proposal. we all know how difficult the field of tax coordination in the european union is. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax system is harmonized. we also know that tax competition can have a very damaging effect on european economies and also on location developments in the european union. i would also like to express my gratitude to the rapporteur, mr della vedova, for having once again brought the issue of the european parliament's co-decision to the fore, because i think that in the context of the treaty reforms and the debate on a european constitution we must also think about the limits of national sovereignty in tax policy. we must therefore also look for new ways of defining where it is in the common interest to fix fiscal policy milestones. i therefore believe that the convention would be well advised to take up this issue as well and to call for treaty reforms which provide for a shift from unanimity to majority rule in eu tax policy. we are of course very far from that today when we look at the commission's really very good paper, the very pragmatic and therefore very correct paper. it is true that the commission's record can only be sobering when it comes to coordination. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's pragmatic approach to action must therefore be supported, although we must never lose sight of the objective. however, various other areas of tax coordination are incompatible with a forward-looking approach. i think that corporate taxation is still a long way from achieving what should be attempted with the monti package. in any case, we must finally get tax havens drained and the tax incentives for non-resident legal or natural persons that distort competition eliminated. this must be our aim, as must the minimum requirement for uniform definitions in tax law, from the tax base to the definition of profit. i would be very grateful if we could agree on a common language in this regulation in the european parliament. this would certainly also encourage governments to adopt more progressive approaches.
adopted by the commission on 27 june. the commission has decided to extend the period of validity of the decision to the period from 1 january 1999 to 31 december 2000. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. the rapporteur has explained the situation of the three communities and the european union. in the field of foreign policy, this is a particularly problematic issue. we have, for example, full membership in international organizations, in the fao, in one of the communities, a seat and a voice in the organs of the united nations; we do not have that for the whole field of foreign policy. we are particularly aware of the changes that have taken place in the world over the last three years - the beginning of mr solana's term in 1999, a political situation in european foreign policy, the introduction of the euro on 1 january 1999 and the objective of a common foreign and defence policy by the year 2003 - these are ambitious objectives, but they no longer relate to the legal basis provided for in the treaties. we now have the power to conclude treaties under articles 24 and 38, which respectively make one of the communities or the member states responsible. and today, contracts are being concluded - and this must also be noted by our parliament - without parliament being able to give its consent beforehand. the budgetary commitments are made in international treaties which parliament has to implement here because of our particular situation. i therefore think that the convention must put the question of legal personality back on the agenda. we need this legal personality in order to be able to make our contribution as the european union more fully, particularly in the post-9/11 situation, also in the united nations. this can be done alongside the member states, it is not a substitute for national membership of the united nations, but it would give our foreign policy a profile, give it the power to act and, above all, transparency for the citizens. this is the objective which we, as an external committee, would like to bring into the convention and into the discussions.
- mr president, i have to go. in fact, the carlos carnero report is one of the important reports here in parliament, and if this demand for legal personality for the eu were to be enforced, a qualitative leap forward would be achieved in the unity that europe represents for the citizens of our countries and, of course, for all the eu's partners in the world. no one understands this difference between the european community on the one hand and the european union on the other. it's complex and confusing, and it also has many drawbacks. mr berthu is quite right that this demand is part of the great reform we want. the three pillars must be overcome, the decision-making structures must be streamlined. these are all things we have already decided on in the leinen/méndez de vigo report and in other reports here. it is precisely this cornerstone of legal personality that is missing from the whole. that is what we were lacking, and we will add that cornerstone to the report by carlos carnero. i can only join this. the convention is a fine opportunity to do this work. we need a europe with a voice in the world. mr laschet and others have also given examples of the absurdity of this: the community has a representative but not the union, so it is very complex. but it is also important for domestic and judicial policy. i have just informed him that we have decided to make 5 million euros available to europol. that is good, because we want europol to work, but we cannot accept the money because europol cannot accept money from the community budget, but only money from the member states. the absurdity of the situation is thus becoming clear, and i hope that with this legal personality our representatives and others in the convention will take a step forward and then the rights of citizens will finally become binding by being able to sue the union. in that sense, good luck and thanks to carlos carnero!
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. i thank mrs carlotti for her very good report. mrs carlotti, your report is intended to provide some political guidance on the way to a genuine parliamentary and democratic assembly. there are many helpful suggestions for change in the report. it is therefore good that it is adopted before the plenary session in cape town and can be incorporated into the deliberations there. mrs carlotti has just responded to many of the recommendations in the report. as a shadow rapporteur, i would like to make a few brief comments on a number of points. the cotonou agreement has led to a fundamental reformulation of the objectives of cooperation between the eu and the acp states. substantial improvements in the content and policy of this agreement have been made following proposals from the european parliament. mr corrie has done a very good job as co-chairman in recent years. the result is an ambitious agreement that opens up new horizons in cooperation. but it must also be filled with life in a concrete way. the ppv's working methods and procedures must be made more efficient and conform to a genuine parliamentary, joint and democratic assembly. this process was already started last year and must be continued. the new powers should enable the assembly to exercise greater financial control over the spending of eu development aid. strengthened monitoring and budgetary control, together with regular contacts between the members of the assembly and the members from the beneficiary countries, could help to ensure that eu funds are used properly and in a way that is also in line with the real needs of the acp countries. the report also calls for greater cooperation with civil society and non-governmental organisations. the political dimension of the cotonou agreement would be to encourage dialogue between the citizens and politicians of the acp and eu countries. the obstacles to the transformation of the ppv into a genuine parliamentary and joint assembly should be removed as soon as possible. it is very regrettable that the ratification of the convention is progressing slowly in the eu member states. the risk of sending the wrong signal to emerging economies with which the eu has strong historical, political and cultural ties should not be underestimated.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the report by mrs carlotti, which is a very important document on acp cooperation, has acquired a new quality because it also presents the new opportunities which have been given to us by the cotonou agreement. the acp-eec cooperation has acquired a new democratic dimension, and this means that we must also introduce a new democratic dimension in the design of this cooperation. the emphasis on the parliamentary character which is laid down in this report is therefore of particular importance and needs to be fulfilled. that is why it was so important that this report be adopted by this parliament in time for the cape town meeting, so that it can give us the backing we need to reform this cooperation. we need a tailwind, precisely to strengthen the parliamentary dimension and to achieve what we have set out to do. it has been shown that the work on a new rules of procedure has not been entirely without conflict; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sure that we will be able to agree on a structure for the standing committees, which will also give a new character to cooperation in this parliamentary assembly. they enable us to work continuously on the problems, whereas we have only had the opportunity to discuss them in ad hoc groups. i expect this cooperation to be much more intensive in its approach to the issues and to be more closely linked to the acp partners. we will also be able to give new weight to the regional assemblies. this will also give a voice to others within acp cooperation who have not had the opportunity to appear before us.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to say a special word to the ladies and gentlemen in the interpretation booths at this very late hour. we can thank them. they are always there to help us understand each other better in europe. then we'll get along better. that is the point of the parental responsibility request we have put forward. we, as legislators, cannot talk people into shaping their lives. but we have to help them get on the right path through life. we must make this good way possible. the european union has committed itself to this in the treaties and in the charter of fundamental rights. we have been getting along well with each other for more than 50 years. peace reigns among societies of all kinds, but in the family sphere, war often breaks out when love crosses borders. the victims are usually the children. then we read in the newspaper that they are abducted by their own parents or are not able to develop freely under pressure. we must not turn a blind eye to this and we must recognize that the apparently family quarrel between a few people is a sign of problems with a european dimension. it is the friction in the interstate judicial arena that ends up crushing families and children. we have to stop this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have also put forward proposals in the request which can solve legal problems and facilitate judicial cooperation for the benefit of children. i do not need to go into the details here, commissioner; you have read it, and i would be delighted if you could agree to it point by point. they would be doing a service to many people and they would be making it clear to many more citizens that europe is more than the legally defined area of freedom, security and justice. the european parliament must make it clear that europe is the place where people can feel safe across borders, even if there have been disputes between partners. to do this - and these are the three things this request is about - we need clear and comprehensive legislation, motivated lawyers who implement the legislation together and in mutual understanding for the people, and last but not least good common basic concepts. i hope you can give us satisfactory answers to this question.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to make a plea here today for the healthy food fish. in view of the many food scandals, it is certainly not wrong to highlight the benefits of a healthy diet. fish is definitely on the menu. it is a fact that a growing proportion of fish consumption per capita is accounted for by processed products. i am not just talking about canned fish, but the whole range of products on offer, from smoked fish to frozen products. in the european union, the value of output of the fish processing industry is almost twice that of the catching sector. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in fishery products, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january, is a step in the right direction. first, nearly 100,000 employees throughout europe. secondly, thousands of enterprises, mainly small and mediumsized enterprises, often located in regions with weak structures and few employment alternatives. thirdly, a long tradition of processing and refining in various ways. this clearly underlines that the few sentences on the fish processing industry in the green paper are not sufficient and therefore do not do justice to the sector. i therefore propose this own-initiative report to address the neglected issue and to explore policy options, not least in view of the forthcoming reform of the cfp. a hearing in the committee on fisheries gave us interesting insights into the wide range of working conditions, production methods and problems in europe. let me just pick out the following problem areas. first, the main point, the supply of raw materials. the fish processing industry is more than 50% dependent on imports. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is therefore necessary to improve conditions in the interests of security of supply. the commission has already done so. secondly, environmental measures. the profitability of the manufacturing industry, with its small-scale structure, has been significantly reduced in part by eu environmental measures. environmental protection is important, whether it concerns waste water, packaging or emissions. but unnecessary distortions caused by too tight deadlines must be avoided. what good is the cleanest waste water ad hoc if there are no more businesses and no more jobs in the coastal regions? thirdly, food safety. one thing is clear: the fish processing industry is not a polluter but a victim of pollutants and pollution. that's why she can't carry the burden alone. it cannot be a consumer protection objective to set limit values under the slogan: 'xy might be dangerous, so we add a 150% safety margin to it'. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would also like to mention this, particularly to the member states. fourthly, the enlargement. the candidates are at the door. some countries have set an example in hygiene and health protection. but there are still massive problems until an adequate standard can be reached. the commission has already done so. we need more information about this sector. we therefore urge the commission to carry out an analysis. the impact of fifg aid must also be carefully examined, because we do not want a sector at the mercy of the eu, but an industry that can survive in the 21st century, vital and fit. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not affected by the crisis. conclusion: the fish processing industry needs to be given more attention in europe. the committee on fisheries was of the same opinion, with only one vote against. i therefore hope that this report will receive full support in the vote at 12 noon.
- mr president, i have to go. this so-called compromise proposal was submitted to us last night at short notice and was sent to us this morning by mistake, with our name on it. that was then revised. i do not think it would be right to vote on such a technical text in such a short time. i therefore have serious reservations about voting on this now.
- mr president, i have to go. it is the same as before, that we do not accept a vote on this. hence our request to question the house.
mr president, the original amendment proposed raising the threshold from 10% to 25%. in consultation with the commission and the council, and also with the other groups, we have agreed to reduce this to 20%. i hope that this will not be interpreted as a manipulation, but that there will be a broad consensus.
- mr president, i have to go. so here it's repeated again, we're not going from 10 to 25 percent, but from 10 to 20 percent. that is what the next oral amendment is about.
i would like to ask you to do so. i'm terribly sorry about that. i didn't invent the procedure. the amendment was tabled very late yesterday. i want mr cohn-bendit to understand that. the two that were accepted were relatively simple. the other amendments, as the rapporteur himself has said, were very complex amendments which have been dragged through the text, but i shall be happy to explain them in detail if you cannot understand them. we are against it.
mr president, once again we are talking about raising the 10% to 20% and not to 25%.
in writing. - (de) the tobacco sector must be examined as a whole. it requires a balanced consideration of its many aspects, such as the cap and the environment, economic and social cohesion and public health. to this end, studies are under way which the commission must present and the conclusions and observations of which must be translated into concrete proposals. we cannot be under the illusion that with the decline in tobacco cultivation there will be no more smokers in the eu. we must clearly bear in mind that tobacco will then be imported from third countries, where we cannot have any influence on the crop, and that jobs will be lost in the eu. we have an obligation to these workers who derive their livelihood from tobacco growing. realistic alternatives must be offered to them. the funds for restructuring measures could come from the new department to be set up under the auspices of the community tobacco fund. an increase in resources to 3% must be decided in this respect. finally, i also call for an increase in information and awareness campaigns on the health effects of smoking.
- mr president, i have to go. i would like to join the speaker. in taiwan, 23 million people live in a democracy, and a well-established democracy, and taiwan is certainly not a country that is constantly causing us problems. nevertheless, it is the subject of this urgent debate. the 23 million people in this democratic society are excluded from international organizations. it is not a country that is primarily a recipient of aid, but a country that actively supports international organizations. taiwan has been particularly active in the who. it would be a mistake if this country could not engage internationally. it could therefore be a first step if it were granted observer status and if it could be active in other international organisations in the future. there may be some interim arrangements where taiwan can be involved. i ask the commission whether it is prepared to support this position of parliament.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the european union is not only a political and economic success story, but we have also achieved standards in health that many countries can only dream of. good health is of paramount importance to every citizen of the world, but only access to information and medical care can improve public health. and many things can only be solved by working together and by the interplay of forces. i think of infectious diseases, such as malaria, tuberculosis, aids, and others. the world health organization, with its 199 members today, has set itself the task of improving health worldwide. health is a precious commodity, and all people should enjoy it. i am therefore convinced that in a field which affects all people, no one should be excluded who wants to contribute to the good of the people in his own country and in other countries. taiwan has expressed its willingness to engage in the who, both financially and technically. i therefore think it is justified, if not necessary, to grant taiwan observer status at the annual meeting of the world health assembly. i am very familiar with the political problems and tensions in taiwan from my own experience. as always, the culprit is not on one side only. but i firmly believe that political differences must not lead to a country being denied international cooperation in the field of health, and i therefore urge you to support the joint resolution tabled here.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. despite the government's obstruction, the european union has followed the zimbabwean electoral process very closely and i would like to begin by expressing to the many people in zimbabwe my great admiration for their civil courage and democratic conviction, which they have shown under very difficult conditions. (applause from the centre) the european union is indeed watching the events in zimbabwe with growing concern. the concerns expressed by the european union about the electoral process when article 96 was still in force have proved to be fully justified. i expect that this question will be discussed by the heads of government in barcelona and that the european union will also make a statement on this very soon. most election observers conclude that the elections did not reflect the will of the zimbabwean people, and cite a number of errors in the conduct of the elections. however, we can state that, however disappointing the outcome of these elections may be, it remains essential that the international community addresses zimbabwe and does everything possible to contain the crisis there. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union agency for the evaluation of medicinal products. in the short term, south africa would face a refugee problem; in the long term, such a crisis could threaten the regional prospects for economic growth and sustainable development. all this would be in the context of a severe food shortage. the commission will give high priority to humanitarian needs, together with other partners. it is also vital to work with the sadc governments and the acp states to find a common basis for dealing with the crisis in zimbabwe. the european union plans to send a high-level troika in the near future to discuss with our sadc partners our concerns about zimbabwe on the basis of our shared commitment to the rule of law and democracy. i hope that the european parliament will play a very important role in this. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. moldova, our child of concern, as a neighbouring country. we have long hoped that this country, with a communist government, would be able to maintain its economic development and its course towards the european union. the communist government knew that it was playing with fire by introducing the russian language and making history lessons compulsory, which represented a stalinist view. language and culture have already triggered a military conflict in this country, and thanks to a broad social compromise it was possible to calm it down after a few days and bring stability to the country through long-term osce action. the government has now destroyed it, and in one of the poorest countries in the world! i think it is wrong for the government to try to justify itself again and again. in the last few days we have seen a lot of her claiming that others are to blame for the political crisis. it is itself, because it has tried to cancel this compromise, and that in one of the poorest countries in europe. if the country now falls into a political crisis, just before it becomes our neighbour, then it will affect us as well, and that is why i think it is urgently necessary that the government yields, that it cancels these decisions and that it ensures that economic and political stability is created in the country.
- mr president, i have to go. moldova is a very poor country, but it is a very rich and beautiful country in terms of culture, on the eastern shore of central europe, which links the crisis region of the balkans with the crisis region of the black sea and the caucasus. this shows the importance of this small country to us as the european union, apart from the fact that, as mrs schroedter rightly said, it will be bordering the european union at the latest after romania's accession and will hopefully one day be part of the european union itself. we must not forget why moldova has taken the terrible path it has been on for the last few decades. moldova was a victim of the hitler-stalin pact. moldova was subsequently looted for decades as a european colony of the soviet union. this country cannot get back on its feet after this story, and it has been rightly said that it is a very dangerous potential crisis centre. on the one hand, russia is directly involved in transnistria, the so-called dniester republic, which is the vanguard of russia's nationalist and militarist circles in europe, and on the other hand, moldova is characterized by its cultural and historical connection with romania. in order to avoid a dangerous tug-of-war between an eu candidate country on the one hand and the most powerful neighbour of the european union on the other, we must do everything we can to stabilise this country, that is to say, to stand up for human rights, for the rights of the oppressed christian democrats and other colleagues in the moldovan parliament, against the neo-colonialist aspirations to reconcile this country by means of language and falsification of history, for democracy and the rule of law. i believe, commissioner, that we must also give more active help than we have so far in institution building, in building democratic institutions in this country. it is in our own interest to act as a stabiliser here.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. we are discussing today a violation of human rights in kyrgyzstan, a country which we are assisting by the central asian delegation of which i am a member. two points seem particularly important in the short term. firstly, in my travels in this region i have been able to see that the people there are very much in a spirit of emigration and that they are fundamentally oriented towards our values. unlike all the countries that we have now accepted into the eu and will soon accept, the central asian states are going this way towards democracy largely on their own, without the great help that other states get. the only help we have is tacis. the european union shall provide financial and technical assistance to kyrgyzstan for the establishment of appropriate ministries in the agricultural and social sectors. if we take into account the differences in mentality, the differences in cultures, the differences in religions, the completely different historical development, this explains a little bit the great difference between our understanding of democracy and that of central asia. i would like to say that we should be careful not to judge other countries too harshly by our claims to democracy and human rights. secondly, as partners and friends of central asia, we are well placed to draw attention to serious wrongdoing in the appropriate form. this is all the more so since kyrgyzstan is also receiving a great deal of our aid under the tacis programmes. the present resolution of the european parliament takes account of this area of tension which i have indicated. as i said, on the one hand the recognition of a reality that is certainly not easy and on the other hand the difficulty of building a functioning democracy which should guarantee the participation of all sections of the population and groups of the population. i would like to expressly acknowledge the achievements of the past. however, i see in the field of human rights, and mr bowis has very clearly pointed out this, more regression than progress, and here i must express my serious concern. human rights and human dignity are the foundation of a modern society and a stable democracy.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. a year ago the european parliament's saarc delegation visited sri lanka. i was there as vice president and had the opportunity to get to know not only the south of the country but also the north. near jaffna, the military had just recaptured large areas occupied by the tamil tigers. we encountered destroyed villages, devastated lands, and witnessed a demonstration of fishermen and farmers who wanted to return to their homes, but were not allowed to enter for security reasons. back in colombo, we were told by foreign observers and local ngos that the war in sri lanka was an institution. we have supported the norwegian mediators in all the talks, who have been trying for years to negotiate bilaterally. few of us then believed that the nearly two decades of civil war, in which over 60,000 people had died, would come to an end. since the elections, when the united national front won, partly because it promised peaceful solutions, the situation has changed. economic sanctions were lifted, fishing restrictions were reduced, the transport embargo was relaxed, and sea and air links were established. on the basis of a ceasefire, which will hopefully continue, prisoners of war were exchanged and the norwegians were again asked for help. the european union has never been idle, commissioner fischler. we were mostly humanitarian. since 1993, echo has raised some eur 13 million. recently, one million euros were allocated to improve food and health conditions, medical care, medicines and the conditions for improved hygiene and clean water. the european union should not only be active economically at the donor conference in sri lanka in may. it should put political pressure on the ceasefire and the first peace talks, which are only delicate flowery bits, so that they are not episodes, as they have been in recent years, but that they have substance. the country and its citizens should be wished a lasting peace process.
- mr president, i have to go. there has been intense debate in the political groups about speaking time, about which subjects can be included in the list of urgent subjects and which cannot. we have been fighting for minutes, and then we are finished half an hour before the vote! there is something wrong with the allocation and i would ask you to check how we can make use of the full time of the sitting until the vote. (applause from the centre)
the council has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels. on behalf of the european council, i extend our condolences to the family of mr biagi and extend them to the italian authorities and people. the fight against terrorism is a key priority for the european union. we know that terrorism is a threat to freedom and democracy and that it must be fought firmly and consistently and with all the means that the rule of law provides us. we must therefore reaffirm our resolve to confront terrorism with serenity and political courage, in solidarity with the victims and in our own democratic dignity. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure to appear before you today, as i had the opportunity to announce to you in january this year, when the spanish presidency of the european union presented its priorities, and to inform you of the outcome of the european council in barcelona. two years ago, at the lisbon european council, heads of state and government discussed how europe could cope with the enormous change in our societies that is the result of globalisation and how we could also meet the challenges of a knowledge-based economy. we therefore set the european union a strategic objective for the next decade: to make europe the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable economic growth, with more and better jobs, and with greater social cohesion. two years later, and following the barcelona european council, i am pleased to say that the lisbon process of economic and social modernisation has not only been consolidated but has been strengthened. ladies and gentlemen, the success of the modernisation of our economies depends essentially on the political will to undertake a series of reforms. i would like to thank you for the contribution of the european parliament to the smooth running of the lisbon process and the good results achieved in barcelona. this recognition was unanimously expressed to president cox during his first appearance before the european council. there is a lot of work and decisions that you have been making in relation to the lisbon process. i would like to recall here, among the long list of matters which the honourable members have discussed, how the report on the implementation of the financial services legislation has unlocked a very important aspect, namely the creation of integrated financial services in the european union. the decision of the honourable members to make progress on this issue has not only helped significantly in the creation of competitive financial markets, but has also contributed to the adoption in the future of a set of measures which may mean an additional growth of 0.5% of the gross domestic product of the european union each year. i would also like to highlight its resolutions on the ratification of the kyoto protocol, on sustainable development and the reports adopted last week on the internal market in electricity and gas and crossborder exchanges in electricity. the substantial contribution of the european parliament to the barcelona council is therefore not confined to a specific area of work on economic reforms but covers a multitude of different areas. the contribution of this house will undoubtedly help to establish new guidelines for cooperation between the council, the commission and the european parliament, with a view to strengthening the political and interinstitutional partnership based on a spirit of mutual trust. this is clearly stated in the first of the conclusions of the barcelona european council. before i turn to the content of the discussions and decisions taken in the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to emphasize in a very special way the participation of the applicant countries in a regular working session of the council. this european council has greatly appreciated the commitment of the future members of the european union to the lisbon reform strategy. we can say that the candidate countries have become, even before their accession to the union, the strong promoters of these reforms. the good results of the barcelona european council should not make us forget how far we still have to go to achieve the ambitious goal of making europe a society of full employment by the end of this decade. that is why, in presenting the results of the recent european council, i will allow myself to place equal emphasis on what has been achieved and what we must achieve in eight years' time. in my view, the council has sent two main messages in barcelona: confidence in economic recovery and the revival of the 'spirit' of lisbon. we have agreed that the economic recovery has begun, and we are confident that this recovery will be consolidated throughout the year. its strength and durability are assured if we are able to move forward with our reform agenda and create a stable and growth-friendly framework. the european council stressed the importance of complying with the requirements of the stability pact. to this end, all member states have committed themselves to achieving or maintaining budgets close to balance or in surplus by 2004, while agreeing to strengthen the coordination of our economic policies. ladies and gentlemen, we can summarize in four broad blocks the set of issues on which the barcelona european council has focused. the first is the set of decisions which will improve the functioning of the internal market and deepen the integration of the european economic area, the best way we have to create more wealth. in this respect, the conclusions contain a commitment by member states to reduce public aid levels in relation to gdp and to make its use more transparent. the european council has also asked the ministers for economic affairs to assess the transparency of our accounting, consultancy and audit standards. we will not have truly effective standards if we do not ensure that they are met. the council therefore agreed that 100% of the directives whose transposition into national law is two years late should be transposed by the spring 2003 european council. the european economic area we are striving for will only become a reality if, together with a transparent and flexible legal framework, we move towards the opening up and interconnection of key sectors such as transport, energy and telecommunications, and towards a financial system which, in turn, allows for the correct allocation of savings and financing at the lowest possible cost. this is perhaps where the european council's progress has been most relevant. in the area of financial markets, following agreement between the commission, the council and parliament, it will be possible to meet the timetables for achieving an integrated securities market by 2003 and full integration of financial services by 2005. we have identified seven directives and a regulation which must be adopted this year to achieve this. the commission has also taken steps to improve the quality of the information it receives from the member states. as you know, it has been decided to open the gas and electricity markets in 2004 to all european companies, which means that approximately 70% of the european energy market will be open to competition. as regards the rest of the market, the european council has given a mandate to take a decision before the spring 2003 european council. these energy opening measures are also complemented by the objective of electricity interconnection between member states of at least 10% of installed production capacity by 2005. once this objective has been achieved, we will no longer be able to speak of fragmented national markets but of a genuine european electricity market, open and integrated. in the field of transport and telecommunications, we have drawn up a work programme which will make a substantial contribution to improving the efficiency of the internal market. this year, for example, we will approve the revision of the transeuropean transport networks, which will enable us to eliminate major problems, among other areas in the baltic sea, the alps and the pyrenees. we have also agreed to launch the galileo programme, which has not only a clear role in the development of european transport and communications, but also an important technological component. we also agreed to the introduction of the 'single european sky' in 2004, which will reduce flight times, reduce air transport costs and make air traffic management more efficient, and we agreed to give top priority to the development of broadband networks as a key element in the development of the information society. the second set of issues i would like to mention, ladies and gentlemen, is the sustainable development strategy which we adopted at the european council in gothenburg. the european council agreed that the energy taxation directive will enter into force in december 2004, in parallel with the opening of energy markets. as you know, the union and its member states have decided to ratify the kyoto protocol. the council has urged that all national ratification procedures be completed by june, before the johannesburg summit. finally, in the run-up to the monterrey summit, the fifteen have agreed to raise the average of official development aid in the european union to 0.39% in 2006 as an intermediate step towards the 0.7% commitment. the third block of the barcelona european council, ladies and gentlemen, covers employment and social matters. as you know, the afternoon before the european council a summit was held with the social partners. the express result of this social summit was the commitment of the social partners to the lisbon strategy and objectives. throughout the european council there has been broad agreement that member states should work to remove the obstacles which hinder the integration of europeans into the labour market. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. in this connection, we have approved the creation of a european health card, which will facilitate the provision of medical care to citizens during their travels, and we have decided to create the corresponding single european web pages, via the internet, for job vacancies. the emphasis has been on measures targeting two very specific groups of the population: firstly, the promotion of access to day care for the vast majority of children as a means of facilitating the reconciliation of family and working life, and secondly, in the light of the low birth rates and the ageing of our populations, we will put in place the means to increase the average effective retirement age in europe by five years - during this decade. finally, the council also devoted attention to matters relating to education and research, technological development and innovation, which should be important elements of european competitive advantage. the european council considers that quality education is one of the essential characteristics of prosperous and open societies. that is why we have approved the "2010 work programme" for education systems. as regards education, the european council has supported the teaching of at least two languages from other member states from an early age and the general introduction of computer and internet education from secondary school. in the field of research, development and technological innovation, i would like to stress the important commitment we made in barcelona, which you are no doubt already aware of: to increase investment in these categories to 3% of gdp by 2010, with two thirds of this investment coming from the private sector. ladies and gentlemen, it was decided in lisbon that each spring the european council would hold a working session on economic and social questions to ensure overall coherence and effective monitoring of progress towards the new strategic objective. the barcelona european council, in accordance with this mandate, has devoted its work mainly to the lisbon strategy. this does not mean that other matters relating to the european union's external policy or other institutional matters could not be dealt with. among the latter i would like to highlight the debate which, at the initiative of the irish prime minister, was held by the european council on the ratification of the treaty of nice by the republic of ireland. the european council welcomed the approach presented by the irish prime minister and reiterated its willingness to support the irish government in the process of ratifying the treaty of nice, agreeing to take up the matter again in seville. this same european council will also be the first to dedicate a working session to examining the progress of the debate on the future of europe. a report by the president of the convention will enable us to see firsthand the progress of the discussions in this preparatory forum for the future intergovernmental conference. finally, on institutional matters, we have fulfilled the mandates of the european councils of gothenburg and laeken. in accordance with the last european council, the secretary-general of the council has presented us with a report from which we shall draw the operational conclusions at the seville meeting for the reform of the european council. in the coming weeks, the presidency and the general secretariat of the council will establish the necessary contacts to achieve and attain this goal. ladies and gentlemen, the debate on foreign policy has had an important chapter on the situation in the middle east. we also discussed the agreements reached between serbia and montenegro, relations between the european union and the atlantic alliance and the future role of the european union in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. on the other hand, i would also like to stress the european council's special support for the brussels process on gibraltar. the european union, through the adopted 'barcelona declaration', has reaffirmed its condemnation of all terrorist attacks, while stressing that it is the palestinian national authority, as the sole legitimate authority, which must fight terrorism. the european council has therefore called for the immediate lifting of all restrictions on the freedom of movement of the president of the palestinian national authority, yasser arafat. the european council also stated that israel must withdraw its forces from areas under the control of the palestinian authority, stop extrajudicial executions, lift the blockades and restrictions, freeze settlements and respect international law. the european council reiterated in this declaration the union's traditional dual objective in the region: the creation of a viable and independent democratic state of palestine, ending the 1967 occupation, and the right of israel to live in peace within secure and recognized borders, guaranteed by the commitment of the international community and in particular of the arab countries. only through close coordination between the union, the united nations, the united states, russia and other countries in the region can we make an effective contribution to the settlement of the conflict. ladies and gentlemen, european policy towards the balkans is also based on a clear principle, which is the principle of the inviolability of borders and respect for the territorial integrity of states. the agreement reached on 14 march by the leaders of serbia and montenegro is a good step in this direction, as it commits the two countries to maintaining their constitutional unity and territorial integrity. this agreement will be a good test against the european aspirations of the union of serbia and montenegro and, depending on its maintenance, the european union will determine its degree of commitment. ladies and gentlemen, the european council has expressed its readiness to continue to support the process of stabilisation, reconciliation and reconstruction in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. following the philosophy which led the european union to decide to inherit the police mission in bosnia and herzegovina, as from 1 january next year, the european council expressed the union's readiness to assume responsibility for an operation which succeeds the one currently carried out by the atlantic alliance, on the understanding that the permanent cooperation agreements between the european union and the atlantic alliance are already having the corresponding effect. to this end, the european council has asked spain, in its capacity as president of the european union, to maintain, together with the high representative, appropriate high-level contacts with a view to achieving a positive outcome that will allow this situation to be resolved. sub-saharan africa also had a place in the discussions of the european council, which expressed satisfaction with the cessation of hostilities in angola after more than 25 years of conflict with disastrous consequences for the population and condemned the lack of political guarantees in the recent elections in zimbabwe. the european union also expressed its concern at developments in the republic of congo and at reports of the possible stoning of a woman in nigeria. the european council called on the authorities of that country to respect fully human rights, with particular attention to women's rights. (applause) i have to say that in monterrey i will have the opportunity to expressly request the president of nigeria to heed all the demands that are being made, to prevent this act of stoning a human being, a woman, in that country. (applause) as i have said, i would also like to stress the great satisfaction with which the european council has received the decision of the united kingdom and spain to relaunch the brussels process on gibraltar, established in november 1984, supporting the commitment of both governments to overcome their differences on gibraltar and to conclude a comprehensive agreement before the summer. ladies and gentlemen, mr president, there has been talk lately of the need to bring the process of european integration closer to the citizen. the european union has recently been able to give the impression that it dealt with matters that were seemingly too far removed from the everyday lives of our citizens. i think the barcelona european council has proved the opposite. it has dealt with, and we have dealt with, decisions which will affect the concrete reality and the daily lives of the citizens of the union. i believe that the result is an important and comprehensive work agenda for the years ahead. the year 2002 will see the launch of the galileo programme, the adoption of the revision of the transeuropean energy and transport networks, the adoption of proposals on port services and public service contracts and the rules on the allocation of flight time slots, the adoption of seven directives and a regulation on financial services and the important regulation on crossborder flows of electricity. the commission will also be presenting a report on the implementation of the new eu-wide framework programme for research and development (fp6) and the new eeurope 2005 programme. in 2003 we will see the full implementation of the telecommunications package, the launch of the european job search website and the launch of the european health insurance card, as well as the integration of european stock markets. in 2004 the gas and electricity markets will be opened up to all businesses, member states will be in budgetary surplus, the energy products directive will enter into force and the single european sky will be implemented. in 2005 we will have fully integrated markets, with 10% electricity interconnection capacity and developed broadband networks. in 2010 we will have to meet the 3% of gdp target for research, development and innovation and will have implemented the work programmes on education, reconciliation of family and working life and raising the retirement age from the effective cessation of activity. i sincerely believe that the objective of implementing the reform agenda we agreed in lisbon is substantially, reasonably, achieved. i also believe, mr president, that today we have 'more europe' and above all 'better europe' than before the barcelona european council. and finally, i believe that we have contributed with our agreements to boosting, to accelerating, economic recovery. these were the main objectives of the spanish presidency at the barcelona council. the member states, by demonstrating the necessary ambition and flexibility, have made a decisive contribution to achieving these balanced and positive agreements. the european commission has proposed documents which have provided an excellent basis for the work of the european council and has been very active in encouraging european commitment and progress. and of course, as i said, i want to thank the european parliament for its proposals and actions, which have played a very dynamic role in the development of the lisbon strategy. i would therefore like to conclude my speech as i began it, with a sincere thank you for contributing to achieving results which i sincerely believe are worthwhile. thank you very much, mr. president. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the commission. mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss the results of the recent european council in barcelona. for my part, i want to start by remembering a man that many of you in this room have known: his name was marco biagi - we were friends - and he was murdered last night in bologna. he was fifty-two years old, married, and had two children. professor at the university of modena, he was a specialist in labour law, adviser to the minister for labour in the present italian government, as he had been to other ministers for labour in previous governments, including the one i chaired. he had worked all his life to promote dialogue between the social partners in his country and my country, italy, and in europe. he was appointed by the european commission and was a member of the high level group on the future of industrial relations, which had prepared the report on the social dialogue, the very report we discussed together a few days ago in barcelona. to remind mr marco biagi, mr president of parliament, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, we must work to keep our societies united and to fight together against terrorism, we must work to defeat terrorism, which is the implacable enemy of democracy. we know that development and social justice and mutual solidarity must go hand in hand in our societies. these are the values on which we want to build europe: the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. these are values we must never, ever forget, especially in times like these. (applause) i would like to thank mr president of the parliament, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i am here today to report on the results of the european council held in barcelona at the end of last week. the barcelona council, as president aznar said, was a success. it is a success for europe because it was a decisive step towards the concrete implementation of the lisbon strategy; the commission's approach is also a success and the institutions, the commission, the council and parliament: a success of the commission, which, with its spring report, guided the european council's discussions and the proposals reflected in its conclusions; i would like to thank mr aznar and his team for their intelligent leadership and organization. the european parliament has also been successful in discussing and approving virtually all the proposals for the barcelona summit in the same weeks. this means - as you, mr cox, have rightly pointed out - that we have moved from a culture of comparison to a culture of change. this will ensure that the spirit of cooperation between the institutions and the efficiency of the reform process are firmly established. president cox, i therefore send my heartfelt thanks to you as well. i also particularly appreciated the words you spoke at the opening of the council, which gave the best start to the two positive working days. you have stressed the firm intention of parliament to play an essential part in the reform and progress of community construction. and i fully share that view. in particular, parliament has recently done a great deal of work through the codecision procedure, which we are all proud of and for which i am particularly grateful. i welcome these developments, particularly because they help to close the gap between the announcement of a policy and its actual implementation. last november, and again in the spring report, i stressed the dangers of a gap between political declarations and concrete achievements. my great fear, in fact, is that we will continue to raise new expectations among our citizens and then fail to meet them. to bring europe closer to its citizens, we must decide and act. today i am pleased that in barcelona we have defined a roadmap with clear deadlines for the next few years. this table was referred to and recalled by president aznar. mr president, i should like to focus very briefly on a few points of reference. in barcelona we have set a date for the opening of the electricity and gas markets. this was a project that had been stalled for months, preventing european companies from benefiting from cost reductions and hence from productivity gains. by the end of 2004, non-domestic consumers will be able to choose their suppliers freely. it must also be said, however, that the opening will be regulated to ensure public service. the commission has already had occasion to show a particular sensitivity to the need, indeed the obligation, to reconcile the requirements of competition and productivity with the requirements of services of general interest. barcelona has also put the galileo project back on track and given it a new impetus. galileo was an unexpected achievement and a very important step forward with major political and economic implications. i would also like to stress the great achievement of the opening up of the financial markets. the council confirmed its commitment to implement the financial services action plan and to fully integrate markets. this means that the securities and venture capital markets will be integrated by 2003 and the financial services markets by 2005. this decision should not be underestimated, although it may have received less press than the decision on the electricity market, but in terms of economic consequences it is an even greater decision because the capital market, integrated at european level with a single currency, will offer consumers and investors enormous advantages. in preparation for the barcelona council, progress was also made in consolidating the interconnection of the european telecommunications and electricity networks. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of information centres. finally, agreement was reached on the new e-europe 2005 action plan, which reinforces our strategy to enable the spread of new technologies in areas such as trade, health services and public administration. the council also agreed to improve the coordination of economic policies, particularly in the euro area. the results achieved are therefore great results, and we must not underestimate them. we cannot continue to take successes for granted and to focus only on delays or failures. the spring council has already become an important political, budgetary and relaunching moment in the process under way. a crucial part of this process is the coordination of economic policies. as i have stressed on several occasions, the time has come to capitalise on the extraordinary success of the introduction of the euro. after the euro, we need to engage at the political level and turn our attention to the question of how to define and conduct an economic policy for the euro area through enhanced coordination of the economic policies of the member states. in particular, it must operate through a set of consensus-based principles and rules guiding the budgetary policy of the member states. i am glad that the european council has supported this concept, which gives coherence and predictability to structural budgetary policies. this shows that the spring councils have taken on the responsibility of providing political guidance to this formative process of european economic governance. the spring councils are also ready to play their part by reviewing this general economic strategy annually. this strengthens the economic base underpinning the euro and creates a virtuous circle between the monetary and the real economy. mr president, in barcelona we gave a strong impetus to economic reforms which had been delayed by the timetable, but we did not subordinate our social dimension to those objectives. we have been very concerned about the creation of jobs, the creation of conditions for remaining competitive on the labour market and the environment. on the other hand, as we pointed out in the spring report, the fact that we have chosen to focus on some priorities does not mean that we have forgotten the others. we must keep up with reforms in all areas because, as we know, the integrated approach is of crucial importance to achieve the final objective. the commitment is therefore twofold: the european council in barcelona has been a great success, and we are very pleased that the european council has been able to take this step. it is not a zero-sum game, but a positive-sum game. in our political decisions, favouring one element does not mean prejudicing another. we will therefore continue to link social and environmental aspects to our overall policy decisions. other initiatives will obviously follow: we must never forget that we are engaged in a ten-year breathing strategy. our performance will have to be measured at the end of the decade: we must not lose sight of this prospect. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, mr president of the european council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! it is with deep horror and sadness that we have learned of the murder of marco biagi, and our sympathies go out to his family. our group declares to all the terrorists in europe and the world: we will never give in to the terrorists! anyone who gives in to terrorists is questioning our democratic order. we will fight terrorism in europe and the world with all the democratic and legal means at our disposal. i would like to thank the president of parliament, mr pat cox, very much for the very practical and political proposals he has put to the european council. i think that was a good basis for the debate. the president of the european council and the president of the commission, to whom we wish a pleasant trip to italy to visit his murdered friend and his family, have indeed expressed how much we must thank him for his contribution. i would also like to pay particular tribute to the president of the european council and to his responsibility, including the fact that he will be coming to the european parliament three times during the spanish presidency. it's the second time today. i think that is a good example for future presidencies. the barcelona summit is a summit which we too regard positively in principle. but of course, there are many unanswered questions. interesting is the language. mr president of the european council, the european council is asking us - parliament and the council - to open the energy market to utilities within a certain period of time. we would have been grateful if the european council had asked us to open the european energy market to consumers, because we would be willing to do so. the council's indecision, which is due to a member country - and i know that the president of the european council has made every effort - this negative attitude is disguised in this call to the council of ministers and the european parliament. well, we wanted more. we would like to congratulate you on your decision. mr president of the european council, i am also aware of your personal commitment to ensuring that galileo now has a future. this is of strategic importance for europe. i am glad that both the political and the financial obstacles have been overcome. we also welcome your commitment to stability and your desire to achieve a budget that is close to balance for all the member states of the european union by 2004. but we would have wished for much more if the barcelona european council had been able to say that it welcomed the commission's attitude of sending two member states of the european union the so-called blue letter, which was then - as we all know - stopped by the finance ministers because of the specific behaviour of one member state. we would like to see this positive declaration of a budget which is almost in balance, put into practice in future by supporting the commission in its efforts to achieve stability in the relations with the member states of the european union. the european council will also gain credibility if the finance ministers act accordingly in the concrete measures. (applause from the centre) mr president of the european council, we very much welcome the fact that the conference of heads of state or government has found strong words for the middle east. we are determined that the palestinians should have a state with dignity, and we are determined that israel should be able to live within secure borders. but we must fight terrorism on both sides. we do not think it right - and i am glad you referred to this - to put the president of the palestinian authority, yasser arafat, under house arrest and to question whether he can attend the arab summit in beirut. we must ensure that he can attend this summit. we have decided to invite yasser arafat and simon peres to the european parliament. we want to be free to invite these personalities, and we also want to make sure that they can then return home. (applause from the right) let me address two aspects which go beyond barcelona. first, the reform of the council. mr president of the european council, you said in january that you were in favour of an institutional working party between the council, the commission and parliament, and we have also heard from you that this is what is really going to happen. we have information that this is to be stopped at a certain level, not at the political level. we would like to encourage you to implement this institutional working group at political level, including by having the president of parliament represented by a member of parliament, so that we can also achieve good results in seville. if we get good results in seville, that will be a great honour for the spanish presidency and for you personally. that's to our advantage. the mediterranean dialogue will be held in valencia on 21 and 22 april under your chairmanship - and i assume that of the foreign minister, but i am sure you will be there too. i have just returned from algeria and my impression is that, as much as we have to look to the east, to the candidate countries, we must also look to the south, because the developments in some of the countries of the southern mediterranean are so dramatic that we must also put a priority on our policy there. we must not confine ourselves to theoretical, political explanations, but we need broad cooperation in the economy, in the financial sector and also between the peoples involved. i would urge you to pay close attention to the barcelona process in the context of the mediterranean dialogue. our group will be very much with you in this and we wish you every success in the second half of your presidency. if you listen to us and the commission, i am sure that it will be a very successful presidency. good luck with the spanish presidency! (applause from the right)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. unlike my predecessor, who has not taken enough action, i must say that as a member of parliament and vice-president of the constitutional committee i am very concerned about the measures proposed by the governments. the european council sets objectives in these areas, some of which clearly fall within the competence of the member states. the fact that open coordination is no longer explicitly mentioned as a particularly appropriate policy method for these policy areas should not be allowed to obscure the fact that the procedure of objectives and guidelines, the implementation of which is subject to review by the member states at european level, should continue to be applied. the result is open coordination. this procedure is profoundly undemocratic. neither the european parliament nor the national parliaments are involved. this is a breach of the existing treaties. but this is also an affront to the objective of the next intergovernmental conference, and the main theme of the convention, the delimitation of competences between the european union and the member states, as formulated by the governments in laeken in december 2001. the barcelona council's conclusion that the european employment strategy requires a simplification of the process, and that this requires in particular a reduction in the number of employment guidelines, is revealing from a constitutional point of view. yes, who initiated this process? the need for a clear division of competences can hardly be more clearly documented. i can only ask the heads of government of the member states to respect the powers conferred by the treaties in force and not to assume rights which are not covered by either the national constitutions or the european treaties. the council's call for member states to make their national labour markets more flexible will certainly have a greater impact than utopian european objectives and guidelines. in addition to inflation of targets, the heads of government of the member states should also avoid inflation of councils and focus on realistic tasks of the european union covered by the treaties.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we have here again a commission paper, and i can only say that i am continually amazed at the ability of the officials in the commission to fill 28 pages without really saying anything concrete. at least it has the strategic advantage that it can't be held back in the end. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the subject of the european parliament's role in the european community. nevertheless, we have it now, and for that reason, i think, we should say something about it. as far as the internal market is concerned, i can only say from my experience of the past few years in this house that we are still a long way from having a truly effective internal market in all areas. there are still large deficits here. i believe that the commission should make it one of its main priorities for work in 2003 to focus on removing these shortcomings. we have just discussed the directive on distance selling in financial services in the second reading in the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. here, for example, it has again become clear that there is no functioning internal market at all for insurance, but that there are still national insurance markets which are isolated. there are still, as i said, considerable shortfalls. the same problem exists, and this has been made clear in the commission's reports, in the implementation of the freedom to provide services and the freedom of establishment in other sectors as well. we have a commission report which has been discussed in committee before and which will probably lead to further developments at some point, in which certain shortcomings in the area of freedom to provide services have been addressed. i do not want to go into the examples now, because there is no time. but my request to the commission is that it should proceed with consistency and ensure that we do in fact end up with a functioning european single market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would ask the commission, and in particular the commissioners responsible, to make progress in this area, to come forward with a green or white paper as soon as possible so that we can know in concrete terms how things are going. i believe that this is absolutely essential if the internal market is to exist and function not only for large companies but also for consumers and small and mediumsized enterprises to have the opportunity to take full advantage of the options offered by the internal market. we are making the internal market for our citizens first and foremost, not just for the big companies. i therefore ask that work in this area be continued with greater force and energy, even against some of the resistance which, as we know from experience, always exists in some member states.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i've learned that it makes sense to combine praise and blame, and that's educational value. that is why i am going to start with praise, commissioner. it is good that we are finally having a very early and timely debate on strategic planning and that this dialogue between the commission and the european parliament and the european parliament's committee on the subject is timely. i am referring specifically to these two institutions, because the council is of no importance to me. we have seen in barcelona that the council decides its own agenda and does what it wants and is a better expert council. the dialogue between you, madam commissioner, as the commission's representative, and the european parliament is the only thing that matters. then there's the blame. i can give you an optimistic signal, commissioner: if you are ever going to sell a defective product, apply for this job! you can try to do that. you tried your best for a document i didn't understand. i admire everyone who has read this document and understood the meaning of each sentence. i was wondering, what does it take to find anything? do you need a guide dog? do you need a st. bernard who can find anything alive under an avalanche? something like that should be there, commissioner. they understood it as a commission to mention anything anywhere. the word consumer protection is popping up, and the word sustainability is popping up everywhere you can tie it to: sustainable transport, sustainable economy. everything is sustainable. but what you want to do and what your priorities are, that has not been revealed to me. i've never been able to figure out what your priorities really are. yes, enlargement, yes, sustainable economy, yes, perhaps also security and stability. but how you achieve that is hidden behind flowery sentences, commissioner. i would therefore ask you to go home and tell your fellow commissioners, and i am sure we will all say this to them personally, to do their homework better next year. we are now called upon as a parliament to give a reasonable content to what you have provided as a framework there. this would be signed as a class project: "good try, next time please do better". and i'm telling you that, too.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is a serious effort to find the policy area of agriculture and rural development in the commission's 28-page strategy paper for 2003. three times in all, spread over three sides, you can find the word "agriculture". this is perhaps partly because agricultural policy is not yet subject to the legislative procedure of co-decision. we have to assess for the first time strategically issues such as enlargement, the wto negotiations, budgetary developments and the mid-term review. enlargement: if accession negotiations with the candidate countries are to be concluded in 2003, then enlargement could begin in 2004. we all know the enormous work that the commission, parliament and council have to do in the 2003 agriculture and rural development chapters. in this respect, enlargement will also be a major priority for agriculture in 2003 and will require a great deal of negotiating skill. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of social security is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. agriculture plays a key role in the wto. so, dear commission, we expect continuous information and discussion on the progress of the wto negotiations. you yourself speak of the crucial negotiating phase on page 14 of your madness paper. the budget: the result of the vote on the färm report, or more specifically the guideline adopted by the plenary, is to ensure that the mid-term review amendment is incorporated as far as possible in the 2003 budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is a party to the treaty of rome. the strategic requirement for 2003 can therefore only be to make more full and efficient use of the agricultural budget, with flexible use of the funds for new rural development programmes to be created. a very important demand: more qualitative aspects of the common agricultural policy which are eligible for aid must be incorporated. this is also the meaning of compensation for non-farmers.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. our group supports the proposal to set mr solana's statement for tomorrow afternoon at 5 p.m. and to link it to a debate, so that the time from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. would be available for it. we must also inform our colleagues that mr solana - and we must understand this - cannot be here on wednesday because he is travelling to madrid to meet the american foreign minister. that is a reason which we as a parliament must accept. but i have a request and i would be grateful if the other groups could join me in this. i am speaking to you, mr baron crespo, because i did not want to attach any condition to our agreement to postpone the vote on the budget. but we have accepted your argument, and i ask you to accept that when we prepare a resolution on the middle east, we will not vote on wednesday but on thursday. our group is not in favour of a resolution, but the conference of presidents was of the opposite opinion, namely that there should be a resolution. we're democrats, we accept that. we shall also be taking part in the negotiation of a resolution, although we had a very well-founded resolution just last week, but we are taking part and we are doing so in a way which is in keeping with the parliamentary rules of the game. but if the european union - that is, solana and piquet - is negotiating in madrid on wednesday, with powell on the other side, then it must be possible that the outcome of these discussions will still be reflected in the text. it is not possible to say that the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would therefore urge that we do not vote on the text of the resolution on wednesday - it would be too late for the madrid negotiations anyway - but that we vote on thursday, in the light of the results of madrid. i would be grateful if you could agree to that, because we are also very receptive to your presenting legitimate interests here. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. you're in this situation for the first time. that 's why i 'm not blaming you . but i have seen many vice-presidents and vice-presidents in the last few years who have said in this debate on question time that they would try to make sure that this did not happen again, that it was an exception. but it's becoming more and more the norm. i can give you statistical proof of this, and that is why i urge you to reschedule question time at a time when it can be held with absolute certainty. it used to be held at the beginning of the night session on tuesday evening and always on time. since it was moved to the afternoon, it has been regularly demolished every second or third time. we are now closing at 5.30 p.m. on thursday because we are supposed to have nothing to discuss until 6.30 or 7.00 p.m. we do not work on fridays, but we do not have time for the elementary right of members to ask questions, which is guaranteed by the treaty - that is absolutely unacceptable, and i ask not only that this be changed, but also that this question time with commissioner busquin and others, which many of us have carefully prepared, be held as soon as possible. we do not want to receive written replies from officials, but we want to be able to ask questions as is the parliamentary custom. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, exceptional situations sometimes call for exceptional measures. i would have liked the president of parliament to call for a demonstration for peace in the middle east at lunchtime on wednesday after the vote. we have a beautiful interior where parties are usually held. we have a beautiful place in front of the house. all our assistants, all our people here, could be involved. all you need is a microphone. if it was too difficult, i'd even help you get one. i believe that such an extraordinary action would be a strong signal that europe is not willing to accept this spiral of violence in the middle east. these are powerful images, especially on wednesday, the big day for a middle east peace solution. i ask you to consider this with your staff at the conference of presidents. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. i would like to return to the remarks made by mrs read and mr helmer. mr helmer is forcing me to make a remark which i never thought i would have to make. i am one of those who have often criticised president fontaine in this house during her term of office. now i have to say this: if mr helmer writes in his newsletter that mrs fontaine's statements are close to marxism or socialism, i must now say that i am in total disagreement with him. nicole fontaine deserves a lot, but to put her anywhere near marxism or socialism is wrong. that would be, mr helmer, like being handed some clever remarks. that's just as wrong. i must say that we cannot allow members and representatives of our house to be vilified in this way, because, aside from the amusing remark, the fact is that the recommendation to a representative of the european parliament to call her book 'my struggle' is really an unacceptable equation with historical perspectives. i think that should be condemned in this house as well. i would ask the following question to the epp group: this house is proposing that politicians of the same political orientation should join a group together - how can the epp people sit with such a man in a group? (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. i would just like to make a brief comment: the helmer situation is one thing, but attacking a group is another. firstly, anyone who knows the range of european social democrats and their historical background over the last ten to fifteen years should not comment on such diversity as mr schulz has just done. secondly, there is no dispute about taste, and on this point we are once again in agreement.
- madam president! - what is it? i am not going to go into detail. i can honestly say that i am not very enthusiastic about couch potatoes sitting in front of the television or in the football stadium for ninety minutes looking at a small round leather thing and nearly two dozen jersey-wearing people, and moving from their seats, sometimes with a grumbling enthusiasm, sometimes with a shaking hand. but that is not the point here, because the protection of fundamental rights - and i think this proposal threatens that - only makes sense if it applies to all people in a state, and not just to those whose actions and thoughts are approved by the state. in the area of freedom, security and justice, the deprez report aims to collect more information on football hooligans. the rapporteur has repeatedly denied in the debate on the report that this is a long-term issue of exit bans, preventive detention and the violation of fundamental rights, since no measures are envisaged other than the collection of data. i will use an example from the country where i was elected to illustrate that i believe that in the long term, it will not be enough to collect data. in the federal republic of germany, for example, there has been a legal provision which allows restrictions on the exit of hooligans suspected of being violent. but a year ago, it was not used against hooligans, but against demonstrators who wanted to go to genoa! some of those who originally supported the bill have since gone on to say through the media that they did not want it to happen. they would have only approved the law back then because they assumed that it really only applied to football hooligans, and not to people who wanted to express their political opinions. i think that's a good example of what can happen with these kinds of templates. i'd be surprised if this is just about data collection. because what's the point of having a data set if you don't do anything with it afterwards? the political manoeuvre behind this is very easy to see through. the hooligans have once again been found to be a target group which is well suited from a civil point of view to legitimize police action, and this then justifies measures which very well restrict the protection of fundamental rights and then extend them to other persons. so in the long term, this means that it's not just going to be data collection, but that exit restrictions, preventive detention, etc., will very well be incorporated into this eu fortress policy, and that this will also apply to other groups of people. if you want to approve of this, if that is your understanding of the area of freedom, security and justice, then you should indeed approve of the deprez report.
- madam president, the dutch initiative is generally to be welcomed. such an initiative for european cooperation in the prosecution of crime is to be supported, especially when it comes to such abhorrent acts as genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. my aim was to keep the initiative as simple as possible as regards the procedure for exchanging information between the contact points. this is also supported by the german and dutch councils. in this respect, i would have considered it appropriate to refer in article 2 (2) to the existing law on mutual legal assistance between member states, which is laid down in bilateral and multilateral treaties. contrary to the rapporteur's opinion, there is in fact such an agreement between all the member states, namely the one adopted by the council of europe on 20 april 1959. in addition, there is a new, more up-to-date, legal aid agreement of may 2000, which has not yet been ratified by all member states. this new legal aid agreement would already represent a significant simplification, which would have made the creation of a new procedure superfluous. the rapporteur agreed with the reference to existing agreements but did not want to support the abolition of the new procedure to be introduced in articles 3 to 6. i do not want to risk the committee adopting such a contradictory report, so i have finally refrained from tabled ing the abovementioned amendments. i have serious reservations, however. i would also like to stress that i consider it extremely important to create a european network of contact points. i also hope that the success of this network and this important initiative will not be hampered by procedural disputes. i congratulate mr kirkhope on his report.
- madam president! - what is it? the treaty on european union obliges us to create an area of freedom, security and justice for the citizens of europe. the council's proposal is an important step along this road. although only five existing programmes are summarised, this summary provides consistency and clarity. this is particularly necessary in this sensitive area of judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the synthesis of the programmes now allows overlaps to be avoided and gaps to be closed. the creation of a single framework programme will also further improve the utilization of financial resources. only crossborder prosecution and enforcement can combat crime today, because criminals are taking full advantage of the freedoms of the european union. the citizens of the union will also feel more secure. you know there's no criminal justice system for criminals. they shall be subject to the same measures throughout the union. in this context, the amendment to publish the results of the studies and studies co-financed under this programme on the internet is particularly welcome. this is another step towards the transparency we need to show citizens once again the benefits of european cooperation. the strengthening of victim protection is particularly noteworthy and very welcome. it is the victims who suffer the most, but are by no means the best protected and cared for. it is therefore necessary to ensure that the interests of victims in criminal proceedings are effectively protected. with regard to eu enlargement, it is particularly welcome that the candidate countries are taken into account in the council's proposal and can be involved in projects. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the rapporteur should therefore be supported in his efforts to make a change here. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate mr coelho on his report and in particular on the fact that he has succeeded in making the necessary linguistic clarifications.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. why are the proposals now being put to us so important? in fact, some member states have so far failed to adequately threaten community environmental legislation with sanctions. the number of environmental infringements detected by the commission increased from 612 in 1999 to 755 in 2000. as a member of the committee on petitions, i would add that more and more of these cases are also being investigated on the basis of petitions. the citizens of our union have developed a sense of environmental concern and are increasingly reporting these crimes or turning to us for help, since they often lack the protection of the member states. so it would be nice if the level of environmental awareness in governments was about the same as that of citizens. in 39 cases, the commission brought actions against member states before the court of justice in this context in 2000. so it is time for us to act as a union. we do not want to abolish national criminal law, since the directive applies only to activities which protect community environmental law and the rules by which the member states have so far implemented that community law. we are only setting minimum requirements for criminal law protection of the environment, leaving it up to the member states to maintain or introduce more stringent protective measures. the main objective of this directive is to combat pollution which can be attributed to natural or legal persons. in addition to active action and failure to act, incitement must also be punishable. environmental offences still seem to be considered as a sort of chivalrous offence in some member states. this has to stop. the directive, but also the framework decision, is the necessary, appropriate and proportionate means.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the dismantling of our internal borders and the police cooperation that goes with it, as well as the securing of our external borders, will be one of the greatest challenges for the european union in the new century. in his report, my colleague mr oostlander thankfully pointed out the need for a common border regime at the external borders. my report now deals with the development of the schengen convention in the field of crossborder observation. where internal borders have already been dismantled, the national police have the possibility of cross-border surveillance of suspects, in consultation with the police of a neighbouring state. the instrument of crossborder observation is thus, together with the nacheile, the most effective instrument of crossborder law enforcement to date. the need for such a system was demonstrated in germany just last week when hostages were taken after a bank robbery and the perpetrators fled across the border to poland and then on to ukraine. although cooperation was good, a system such as the schengen convention would certainly have made it easier to prosecute in this case. the council proposal now aims to extend the range of offences for which crossborder surveillance is possible to organised fraud, organised crime, money laundering and trafficking in radioactive material. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i think that was a very important decision and we should include it in this proposal. that is why i regarded the proposal by mr buijtenweg and others as a positive addition. we are otherwise increasingly entangled in a thicket of innumerable different rules of criminal cooperation. in future we must do much more than in the past to achieve a uniform framework for penalties. at the same time, it is unfortunately ignored that the schengen convention has not only been restricted in scope, but that it has been hampered by bureaucratic obstacles. i have therefore proposed some systematic clarifications which have found broad support in the committee. we should have the courage to make real progress and developments in this schengen convention. since the introduction of crossborder observation, the number of applications has tripled. the most common obstacle is often cited by enforcement officials as the lack of a right of retention. until now, observers in a foreign country have had to watch crimes unable to do anything. they are not allowed to intervene, but can only inform their colleagues, who are already fully employed at national level. until they intervene, the perpetrators are usually way over the top. i therefore propose that foreign police forces carrying out crossborder surveillance should also be given the possibility of detaining offenders until the arrival of national police forces, if, firstly, the offenders have committed an extraditable offence and, secondly, the national police are no longer able to prevent this offence themselves. it is difficult to explain to our european citizens why foreign police forces are allowed to observe but not to intervene in the case of an emergency. we should be much more careful in adapting our laws to the realities of our europe which is growing closer together. but i am firmly convinced that, with all the development of this schengen convention, the european union needs real police powers in this europe which is growing together. we will not only be able to discuss in the convention, which is known to be a reorganization of the treaties, what powers we might have to transfer back to the member states, but we will also have to identify areas where we need additional powers of our own in europe. the fight against organised crime, and particularly crossborder crime, is one of those areas in which we as a parliament must also emphasise that, from the point of view of parliamentary control, from the point of view of prosecutorial control, we also need an original police executive for a narrow field of application. (applause from the centre)
the author of the opinion of the consultative committee on petitions. - mr president, i very much welcome the argo action programme. i am firmly convinced that only closer cooperation between national authorities can reduce the disparities in the application of community rules. the need to reduce disparities in treatment between member states is demonstrated above all by the large number of petitions addressed to the european parliament. in recent years alone there have been 468 petitions on the subject of inequality in this area. so it is really time to regulate this issue further. an improvement on the current odysseus programme is the explicit inclusion of the visa area. the commission has also received a number of petitions in this connection. the electronic exchange of data is of particular importance in the context of pan-european cooperation. i would like to ask you to give us a few words on the subject. this database must be accessible to the competent authorities in the member states and, where necessary, in third countries, as well as to the competent administrations of the european institutions. however, it is essential that the protection of privacy and confidentiality of information is fully respected. it is also necessary to ensure that national authorities provide information within a reasonable timeframe at the request of the committee on petitions. only by this requirement can the petitioner be protected in his legal certainty. the delays in the transmission of information to date create unacceptable obstacles for the petitioners. i believe that this can only be prevented by enabling the committee on petitions to bring negative behaviour by the authorities to the attention of the public in urgent cases. bad publicity is something every agency wants to avoid.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the argo programme aims to ensure that the eu's external borders remain secure against intruders. the german fence system on the polish border is a model for eu border fortification. and part of that strategy is well-trained police, high-tech facilities, and efficient cooperation between the different agencies, and -- and i know you're going to love this, and i'm going to tell you my opinion -- with the increased involvement of private security services and whistleblowers in the community. the argo programme is designed to ensure that the same level of security is established at the new eu eastern border before the new internal border controls are abolished in accordance with the schengen agreement. it is no secret that the apologists for a european policy of repression see in it the nucleus of a european border police. the aim of the action programme is to effectively block the movement of unwanted refugees into the eu. the only way to get in is through the help of smugglers. more closure will - and this is the intention - lead to higher prices for this market-based aid and make it more dangerous. any position that is pro-refugee but anti-smuggler is at best hypocrisy, at worst aiding the deadly border fence. the objectives of the argo action programme are also reflected in the planned changes to the schengen implementing convention. the border police are being reinforced at the external borders, and more and more police powers are being added at the internal borders. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the proposed amendment to the schengen convention is designed, in principle, to give foreign police additional powers in cases of cross-border surveillance. in the future, not only will suspects be monitored, but also their girlfriends and friends. the initiative thus pursues the european government's objective of implementing primarily repressive security measures rather than guaranteeing and safeguarding the rights and freedoms of people. the rapporteur, mr von boetticher, and the commission are thus providing yet another example of the delusion that security can be created by more police repression. both initiatives thus contribute to a development which leads directly from the national competitive state with its neoliberal character to the police authoritarian security state. in this way they represent a further step towards a european panopticon.
- mr president, i have to go. the proposal for the argo action programme misses the point. while it is welcome that the proposal for the successor programme to odysseus includes funds for better training of civil servants, what is the use of a training, exchange and cooperation programme if the existing framework conditions remain unchanged? it is unacceptable that asylum seekers are being turned back at the eu's external borders by the relevant border authorities as they have been in the past. it is unacceptable that they should be in danger of being returned to their persecuting state by means of chain-reaction. their asylum applications must be examined by an independent authority in the member state concerned, as provided for in the commission's proposal for a council directive laying down minimum standards for the reception of asylum seekers in the member states. asylum seekers must be able to take legal action against negative administrative decisions. this is the minimum of rule of law we can ask of ourselves. let us not forget that border guards may be well trained, but if they are entrusted with tasks that are too demanding for them, such as deciding the welfare of asylum seekers, then all the good training is useless.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank the commission for its balanced and pragmatic proposal and mr marinho for his report and his willingness to cooperate constructively. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has adopted this report by a large majority, thus supporting the rapporteur in his view. the commission proposal represents a significant step forward from the dublin convention and is therefore an important step towards the establishment of a common european asylum system. the main innovations are: firstly, the emphasis on the responsibility of the individual member states when they allow illegally arrived persons to remain in their territory. secondly, the alignment of the time limits for the procedures with those for granting and withdrawing refugee status, in order to ensure that asylum applications are processed quickly. thirdly, the introduction of provisions aimed at preserving the unity of the asylum seeker's family. the procedures for determining the member state responsible should also ensure fair burden-sharing. the fact that the application has been made in a given member state cannot therefore constitute a fait accompli, that is to say, a criterion of jurisdiction. the measures envisaged to simplify procedures while at the same time speeding them up, while respecting the principle of responsibility, and the planned simplification of the burden of proof in determining the member state responsible take account of this requirement. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am glad that the commission has taken this step. this opens up the possibility for the commission, parliament and the council to find a sensible solution together to the problem of the member states' competence in the field of asylum. the amendments rejected, which provide for the extension of the concept of the family and the deletion of essential parts of the regulation, have now been reintroduced. the european people's party group rejects these amendments. this applies in particular to an undifferentiated extension of the concept of family, for example to dependent family members outside the nuclear family. we should also clearly reject the deletion of essential parts of the regulation in tomorrow's vote. i repeat that the commission proposal is realistic and balanced. it offers a number of improvements over the dublin convention. there is no reason to try to change this draft in a way which ultimately benefits neither asylum seekers nor member states. thank you for your cooperation.
- mr president, i have to go. first of all, i would like to commend the rapporteur for his efforts to ensure that the idea of optimising the union's asylum policy is taken seriously. his concern was clearly indicative of the direction to be taken in creating an area of freedom, security and justice. he has taken the mandate enshrined in the treaty of amsterdam very seriously. i wish that for all of us. i think it is right to talk at length about the responsibility of the member states for receiving and for dealing with an asylum application. this is not only beneficial for the citizens of the union, but also for the refugees, who will know exactly what they are in for. the european union is a great example of the kind of europe we need to be able to build on the foundations of the european union. it is therefore right that in this draft regulation the definition of family reunification should be given careful consideration and clarification. the promotion of family reunification is also very appropriate and important. both serve a coherent asylum policy. we want every state to have the right to proceed according to its national legislation. however, this should not prevent anyone from learning from other member states. we want to work together to grant asylum and prevent abuse. not everything in the states has to be the same, but we should learn from each other how to protect refugees and prevent abuse. another reason why we are now discussing the regulation of the responsibility of each member state is that we will have the first candidate countries in the union in the foreseeable future. one thing is clear: before new members join, the union must have its internal policy, its asylum policy and its emigration policy under control as far as possible. we cannot confront the new members with an unfinished asylum policy. the accession process will be difficult enough for them. the eu-wide system of precise responsibility for refugees by the member states must therefore be established now, before the first new states are added. the project of an enlarged european union and a common legal area will be made more secure and more successful by our work on this report if we can get all the member states to support a common regulation. this proposal for a council regulation offers the opportunity to take advantage of the experience gained with the dublin convention and to incorporate it into new legislation. i hope we all succeed!
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we can agree to this request for urgency if it is dealt with at the april ii part-session. we shall then also know the legal position of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. although we do not agree with the change in the legal basis, we are prepared to discuss it under these conditions at the april ii meeting.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the social dimension of the internal market. the commission has already made a number of proposals. as rapporteur for the committee on employment and social affairs, i should like to concentrate on the agencies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i say this not only because the committee on employment and social affairs is responsible for four agencies, but also because the number of agencies is constantly increasing. today we have 11 agencies, but soon there will be 14, because you know that once the question of their location is settled, we will also have agencies for food, aviation and maritime safety. as i have already said, our committee is responsible for four agencies: dublin, bilbao, thessaloniki and turin, and there are no problems in principle here either. but it does not change the fact that it is a fundamental problem that there is an individual discharge procedure by the european parliament for only four agencies. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. but nevertheless, we need equal treatment of all agencies. i therefore ask the commission today, but i ask you to prepare proposals to give all agencies equal treatment in the discharge procedure. the legal bases must be amended accordingly. otherwise we will not be able to carry out the budgetary control of the agencies satisfactorily in the future, which is in no one's interest. we also need to improve our internal cooperation between committees. the guidelines drawn up for the agencies in 1998 should therefore be reviewed in four respects: ensuring adequate control mechanisms in the specialised committees, ensuring transparency in the budgetary procedure, strengthening mutual information obligations and clarifying the division of responsibilities between the committees involved. our committee will draw up proposals to this effect. in conclusion, i would like to thank mr mccartin and mr staes once again for their support in this matter. (applause from the centre)
author of the opinion of the consultative committee on women's rights and equal opportunities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european parliament's main task is to scrutinise and control the eu budget. the commission has also proposed that the european social fund should be used to finance equal opportunities policy in the 2000-2006 programming period. the spanish presidency of the council, in its presentation to the committee, expressed the intention of integrating equal opportunities policy as a cross-cutting task in the employment and social affairs complex. this is necessary because the figures show that only 6% of the european social fund is earmarked for specific measures relating to equal opportunities. the european parliament, however, had asked for 15%. the non-exhaustion of appropriations and the high level of carry-overs are a consequence of the initial difficulties in implementing the structural funds in the 2000-2006 programming period. the procedures for structural measures must be streamlined and simplified, because they are too complex both at community and national level, and we must now work to ensure that such difficulties do not recur when new programmes are drawn up in the future. the evaluation report for the daphne programme has only been available since yesterday. i am particularly interested in the reasons for the low rate of utilization of payment appropriations in the 2000 financial year. one thing is very important: women play an important role in sustainable development and therefore gender issues should be taken into account at every stage of the planning, implementation and evaluation of development cooperation. i therefore ask for clarification as to why only 59% of the appropriations have been spent on payments. the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities focuses on a few budget lines, but these are all the more important in order to further the objectives of gender equality policy in the eu.
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the report on the discharge for the european development funds, presented by mr blak, clearly shows the particular difficulties of european development policy. the problems arising from the commission's system and its operation are clear. it is therefore unacceptable that at the end of 2000 €6 billion was available but not used. in view of the increasing poverty in many acp countries, the commission cannot fail to make available funds to help those in need. the commission has embarked on a system change in these areas. since the cotonou agreement, it has increasingly pursued aid in the form of sectoral budget support programmes. in simple terms, this means that the commission is placing more trust in the responsibility of the recipient countries. this is a welcome approach in itself. only: in the event of misuse, the mandatory counterpart to this trust must be a consistent recovery of the funds. but this consistency is clearly lacking, because the court of auditors found that the commission, while carrying out audits, also detects abuses, but has not yet recovered or recovered a cent of the €14 million mentioned by the court of auditors. the commission must have the courage to state the reasons for this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think this will be a test case for the new financing system. increased trust in recipient countries also implies that recipients are held fully responsible for abuses. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the commission must make a clear choice here and must not take the - surely more convenient - path of least resistance. there are still some well-known anachronisms in this eef procedure which should be eliminated as soon as possible. the european parliament must be given the budgetary and legislative powers over the edf if it is to grant discharge. the court's statement of assurance in the field of the edf must also, like the statement of assurance for the general budget, include a full audit and must not stop where the appropriations leave the commission. this explains why the eff's reliability statement is positive. two different claims of reliability are not only confusing, they are misleading. i now come to the discharge for the parliament's budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to emphasize the call made in the chapter on personnel policy in mr virrankoski's report to end the low presence of women in management positions and to take a policy of equal opportunities seriously. the secretary-general of parliament is personally responsible for this. parliament must set an example if it is to maintain its credibility. it is more than sad that the secretary-general has not seized this opportunity during the long years of his tenure. i think parliament must also set an example by setting up an independent internal audit service. this means that the auditor may not be subject to any instructions from directors-general or the secretary-general. we also welcome the right to report directly to the president of parliament. the report on discharge to parliament's budget must not cover up omissions and shortcomings, nor should it be misused to try to outsource the solution of internal problems. i think that is the purpose of some of the amendments which have been tabled. in particular, the financial regulation is not suited to solving problems within parliament. we'll have to solve this ourselves. transparency, orderliness and accountability to staff are principles which parliament takes for granted - mr freddy blak, you mentioned them. they are not suited to the conduct of partisan disputes and should not be self-tortured into demanding them again and again. finally, i would ask for support for my amendment no 8 to the mccartin report, which already instructs the president of parliament to defend the rights of parliament under article 276 of the ec treaty before the court of justice should a further restriction by the council be taken up.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. when this discharge procedure was launched last december with the court of auditors' report, i pointed out that we are now entering a phase in which we are talking about the systematic problems of the budgetary policy of the european union and not so much about running after every possible or actual scandal. in fact, two aspects also point in this direction, namely the comparatively small number of amendments to all the reports and the large majorities with which they have been adopted, and the comparatively small amount of publicity in the press before this discharge debate. i would like to say something very specific about the question to parliament. i would like to take up a point raised by mrs stauner, my predecessor. it is true that it would be desirable if parliament could regulate all matters concerning its budgetary powers in a completely autonomous manner. that would be wonderful, and i would support that. but there is a problem: the financial regulation of the european union does not provide for a separation of the financial burden of parliament and the political groups represented in this parliament. we need that kind of separation. i would remind you that we had a great debate in this house two years ago on the occasion of the court of auditors' report on the financial behaviour of the political groups, in which certain questionable financing practices of individual political groups were blamed on parliament as an institution as a whole and all the members of this house were held responsible for something which, in fact, was always the responsibility of individual political groups, both to the people in the gallery and to the press. i do not want to be held responsible for certain questionable funding practices that may be taking place in other groups, and i also assume that if something goes wrong in my group, other colleagues who belong to other groups will not be held responsible either. with mr virrankoski's report we now have the opportunity to take a significant step towards separating the responsibilities of parliament's administration from those of the political groups. we have to take this step. i warn against the idea of standing up and saying: how can we let the commission tell us what we should and should not do in a legislative proposal on the rules for implementing the financial regulation? we are creating a wonderful sham conflict with the commission, in which we show how great and strong we are, with the side effect of shifting the separation of responsibilities from parliamentary administration and political groups to st. nimmerlein day, with the perhaps pleasant side effect that certain things that have happened in the past can be continued. for example, if a political group dismisses a member of staff, that member of staff will be able to remain in the parliament's administration and sue parliament before the labour court. or that the accumulated and transferred holiday entitlements of parliamentary group officials have to be paid for by astronomical sums from the parliamentary budget, when it is actually the responsibility of the political groups to pay for them. i would therefore caution against creating such a situation here by means of sham conflicts. if we are to avoid this situation, we have the opportunity to find a solution at the wording level by tomorrow. but if we do end up in a situation where the present situation continues, we will also name those responsible. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too would like to thank all the rapporteurs on behalf of the group of the european people's party for their good work on the discharge for the general budget this year and to make just a few comments. for example, we very much welcome the fact that the mccartin report has dealt with the subject of export subsidies. we will make this a little more difficult by introducing an amendment, because we believe that there are still too many doors open to subsidy fraud, particularly in the area of subsidizing the transport of live animals, and that these subsidies should not be passed on to the eu taxpayers at all. we want to see a stronger emphasis on this. we consider this subject to be extremely important. we will support mrs morgan in that the economic and social committee is given a discharge for the last few years, but that no discharge is given for 1996 and 1997. we think it is extremely important that the committee should reaffirm that the travel expenses have not been properly managed in these years and, what is even more important, that the investigation of this travel expenses fraud has been delayed by the economic and social committee and that olaf has not been sufficiently involved. that must continue to be criticized. we should not spread the cloak of silence but reaffirm this. i would also like to expressly support mrs morgan in her call for the council to be relieved of its responsibilities in the field of foreign and security policy, but also in the field of internal policy, which is increasingly leading to operational expenditure. i am not at all satisfied with the way in which the council has dealt with these questions in the past, and i fear that it will not give us a satisfactory answer now either. we must therefore reaffirm that we believe that this discharge must be given. that's not in the gentlemen's agreement anymore. there must be a clear decision here. in conclusion, i would like to expressly endorse the view of my predecessor, mr kuhne. if we criticise the council in the area of discharge, we must also be very careful in parliament about our own discharge. the separation between the administrative budget and the group budget has been a long-standing issue. i would also like to ask the council to finally take decisions on the parties. we are not able to act as a parliament. we need the council's decision on a party statute so that public criticism on this point can finally be implemented. (applause from the centre)
chairman of the committee on budgetary control. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to say: we have six reports, all of which recommend discharge, except for one part in mrs morgan's report, which we have already discussed. i do not think that has been done for a long time. i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their work. i would also like to mention that the commission was represented at the highest level in many of our meetings, and that has also facilitated the management of what you have mentioned, mrs schreyer. discharge is the highest competence parliament has. the european parliament is above the council, and therefore a highly political instrument. i want to emphasize this again. this time the judgment on budgetary management for 2000 is rather mild, especially in the report to the commission. i would therefore like to make only three brief points. the first is the question of the large surplus that remains. i am not so much concerned that this money is going back to the member states or being passed on to them, but that political objectives have not been achieved, particularly in the area of structures and enlargement, and that is very striking to me. this needs to be improved and we cannot have a surplus like this again in 2001. the second point is the court of auditors' das which has not been issued. this instrument is not fully applicable. if we don't have percentages on the error rate, then it's very difficult for us to judge whether mistakes were made and how many. thirdly, i would like to address the question of controls. in this context, the commission, as the responsible authority in the member states, but also in the candidate countries - for example in chapter 28 - must pay close attention to ensuring that the financial interests of the european union are effectively protected. i therefore consider the green paper on the creation of a european public prosecutor to be groundbreaking.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are now in the second reading of a proposal for a regulation which, in my view, is of great importance and which makes one thing clear in particular, namely that in recent months, thanks in particular to the commitment of the commissioner responsible, we have finally succeeded in catching up in the field of air transport with what should have been a matter of course for a long time, namely that air traffic must be free of frontiers, and that is why the regulations and safety measures relating to air transport are also free of frontiers, that is to say, in this case, uniformly organized throughout europe or at least in the member states. the present regulation establishing an air safety agency, which we are considering in second reading, will ensure that in future there will be a uniform assessment of the criteria for the construction and subsequent certification of aircraft for use in air transport. i think that this step is not only important, and this is obvious, for safety in the skies, because the designs are assessed uniformly, but it is also of course essential for the aircraft industry, which has hitherto had to apply for approval in each member state individually, but which will in future be able to deal with an authority, an agency, on this problem and obtain the appropriate certification here. the air safety agency will be responsible for the licensing, certification and monitoring of aircraft. at the same time, and this is the wish we made clear during the discussions in the committee and in the preparation of the second reading, the appropriate monitoring of flight personnel, but also maintenance and other measures, all of which have an impact on aviation safety, should be regulated by law in future. i repeat the clear message: the main objective of this regulation is to establish a uniform high level of aviation safety in europe. there are, of course, other corresponding aims or reflex effects which can be briefly described. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the committee was concerned with the broad independence of the aviation safety agency. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it was also important to ensure the autonomy of the agency, i.e. that the executive director is the de facto head of the authority and that the management board is also able to determine and influence the policies and the way the agency operates. i know that we have been in a conflict with the council and the commission. i believe that in the many discussions we have had, we have come to solutions which ensure that the commission's responsibility is clear, of course, that it continues to monitor the aviation safety agency, so to speak, but that it is also clear that the aviation safety agency has its own responsibility in the area in which it is competent. i am confident that we will be able to avoid a conciliation procedure, that we will be able to put this regulation into effect with the council's approval and that the agency will actually start work 12 months later. i think that we have taken a great step forward in this area of aviation safety. i would like to thank all those who have initiated and supported this bill, in particular my colleagues on the committee on transport. i also thank the commission and the council for their willingness to seek compromises and i hope that with today's vote we can conclude this report and then open a new chapter in the history of aviation safety in europe in this area. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the decision taken today on the air safety agency is the beginning of a whole series of decisions we have to take in the field of air transport. there's a lot of movement in the european skies. the post-9/11 aviation crisis seems to be almost over. air traffic is expected to double again by 2015. the restructuring of the air transport sector is well under way. the political response to these challenges is to put the single european sky and the optimisation of airport capacity at the forefront. continuity in change is the order of the day. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of passengers is not compromised. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the harmonization of technical regulations. that is why we need the european aviation safety agency. it is intended to be the centrepiece of a future uniform security concept. i am glad that we have found a european answer in this sensitive area. the success of the negotiations with the council and the commission is that, one year after the entry into force of the regulation, the development of requirements for the operation of aircraft and for the certification of flight crews has been established and that these steps are also to be applied to aircraft from third countries. security aspects at airports are also included. as regards the composition of the agency, parliament has succeeded in giving it greater independence, including from the commission. it was also stated that the member states concerned should make an appropriate contribution - i mean, from the point of view of parliament, a financial contribution - to the establishment of the agency's offices. the debate on easa shows that we really needed a framework directive from the commission on european agencies, which would have to answer the horizontal questions for a uniform structure of agencies. it is unsatisfactory that the problem of budgeting the revenue of agencies has not been resolved in the spirit of the committee on budgetary control. the agency for air navigation will be followed by other agencies, for example, for railway safety and maritime safety. i think that this strategy is, on the whole, a good way of promoting the integration of european transport markets.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i have only come to speak because i want to point out a small clerical error which has crept in during the procedure. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the word 'relevant' must be inserted before the word 'premises'. there are differences in the way the text is worded, sometimes the word is completely missing, sometimes it has become an 'any'. i therefore ask that this be corrected as follows: 'entering relevant premises, land or means of transport.'
the council has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in madrid. i had the honour of presiding over the parliament - the cortes generales of spain - in the last legislature as president of the congress and that is my real and definitive political vocation as a parliamentarian. i would therefore like to remind you that i had the opportunity to receive the presidents of the defence committees of the parliaments of the 15 european countries, together with the representatives of the european parliament and the weu parliamentary assembly, to discuss the objectives of the spanish presidency of the union during this six-month period, which i also set out in the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy of this parliament on 18 february. let me begin by outlining the general outline of the spanish presidency. i would first like to recall briefly the background and the principles which have inspired the european security and defence policy, and then to analyse the objectives of the spanish presidency in three areas in which we have grouped these objectives. the operational dimension or area, the institutional dimension and, last but not least, everything that corresponds to the issues of relations with public opinion, both with national public opinion and with european public opinion. i should therefore like to start by recalling that our real mandate, following the meeting in saint-malo, began in december 1999 in helsinki when it was decided to set up an army corps as a european rapid reaction force, with a total of at least 60 000 troops deployable in two months, able to be sustained in the theatre for at least a year and with elements of logistical support, air, sea and land resources for the development of missions which we have coined 'of petersberg', in reference to the already famous palace near bonn where they were analysed, and which are basically peacekeeping and enforcement, rescue and humanitarian, and which are to be set up by 2003. so, from the beginning of 2000, in these two short years, we have had the opportunity to develop this main objective to a great extent, so that, after the portuguese and french presidencies, we have come to the establishment of bodies which were first transitional and are now permanent, to the preparation of a catalogue of military capabilities, which has subsequently been updated and incorporated the contributions of six applicant countries and which was reviewed by the previous belgian presidency, to whom i would like to thank for its work. the military objective was somewhat slowed down during the swedish presidency, which nevertheless made good use of the time to develop the civilian crisis management procedures and bodies. as you know, the european council in laeken declared the operationality of this rapid reaction force, which, i have to say frankly, is for the moment more a declaration of virtual operationality than of real operationality, and that puts the spanish presidency before a mandate that is more compulsive than ever after the events of 11 september. i would like to remind you, as this house is well aware, of the intergovernmental nature of the area in question, which also implies the principle of voluntariness, direct links with the european council and the very organisation of this area, where the high commissioner and the secretary-general are present, who will then have the opportunity to speak to the house on other matters, the psc, the military committee and the european general staff. the second principle is that of mission specialty. i believe that this principle of specialization should be understood as a principle of assessment, and i repeat that we are talking exclusively about military missions for the implementation of petersberg tasks, humanitarian missions for peacekeeping or peacekeeping, or rescue, as the case may be. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action against terrorism, and that it is able to do so in a way that is compatible with the principles of the treaty of rome, the treaty of rome and the treaty of rome. a third principle is that of subsidiarity, obviously not in the traditional sense in this house and in all european law, the old community law, but simply in the sense that our tasks as europeans in the europe of security and defence policy are subsidiary to national defence, which is - as still forming part of that formerly hard core of sovereignty - the responsibility of national governments. it is certainly also subsidiary to collective defence, which most of the countries of the union have to understand as being attributed to the atlantic alliance, so that our missions, in turn, are in that sense subsidiary to the collective defence which corresponds to the atlantic alliance, but no less autonomous. the fourth principle is therefore the principle of complementarity, so that by combining the structures of the atlantic alliance and those of the european union in a suitable way, we can maintain those principles, which are absolutely required by the common sense of no reduplication, no redundancy and no duplication in structures, planning or spending. at the end of the day, defence investments are two sides of the same coin, in this case our common currency. before i give a breakdown of the objectives of the spanish presidency, let me now refer to the motto chosen by this presidency for these six months: as you know, 'more europe', which means both inside and outside. more europe from within wants to make reference, in the european security and defence policy, to citizens becoming more aware of the need for a common security and defence policy. more outward defence means, nothing more, nothing less, to meet an existential need. ladies and gentlemen, believe me when i say that european security and defence policy is an existential need of the european union, i am expressing not only my own opinion but also that of the spanish government. if europe is to have a united presence in the world, it needs an inexcusable common security and defence policy. the european union is not credible in the world if it does not have a unified voice on security matters and if that voice is not accompanied and backed up by military capabilities. we are having and living opportunities to realize that inadequacy. i also believe, ladies and gentlemen, that a common monetary policy is not even conceivable in the long term if there is no common foreign and security policy of the european union to support that currency. finally, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i anticipated that we could group the objectives of the spanish presidency for the next six months in the following three areas: operational objectives, institutional objectives and objectives relating to public opinion. i should like to begin with the operational aspects, which are necessarily more technical, and i would like to say to parliament that they were the main subject of interest at the informal meeting i had with my colleagues, the union ministers for defence, on 22 and 23 march in zaragoza. we are all determined to put headline goal and its military capabilities first of all. and so, first of all, i should like to point out that the determination of the immediate response elements for the eventual exercise of the petersberg operations agreed in helsinki has been started. this need to determine the elements of immediate response also stems from the need, recently proven, to select certain capabilities of the headline goal - from its catalogue - so that there are procedures to enable their immediate mobilisation in the event of a crisis. we have not simply tried to construct a mini headline goal, nor a parallel headline goal, but simply to determine the procedures for selecting which capacities would be ready at the first moment to deal with a crisis in a more imminent way. secondly, we are pushing forward with the designation of operational headquarters. to put it bluntly, with the informality that is always present in parliamentary debate, the declaration of laeken on operationality does not at present make it possible to know which operational headquarters would be in charge of a force responsible for carrying out a petersberg mission in a crisis situation. we do not know yet, but we would also not know what elements of that force would be deployed at the outset. these first two objectives are therefore vital to the effectiveness of the declaration of operationality. there are enough headquarters offers to determine what those headquarters may be in the immediate future. they must achieve - and we have set out the requirements - the corresponding multinationality of their structures and the homologation of their procedures and operation. the presidency will continue to push forward with two lines of action on this point: developing the standard operating procedures governing the operation of the future headquarters and, secondly, also participating in the headquarters panel that has been set up within the european action plan to which i am referring. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the laeken council approved a belgian proposal, sponsored by the netherlands, for an action plan on european military capabilities. it is nothing but the working method for pointing out the handicaps, the inadequacies of our catalogue and providing the methods for solving those handicaps. the spanish presidency set in motion, precisely, by activating the chiefs of defence staff of each of the countries, so that they designated what, for them, were priority disabilities in the catalogue. the response was delivered in record time and seventeen panels of experts have been set up and are now functioning, working on solutions for 23 priorities or shortcomings which are considered to be priority. for our part, we are making a concerted effort to lead four of these panels, which, to give you an exemplary idea, i would point out that they refer to attack helicopters, in-flight refuelling, airborne power and field hospitals. we also participate in eight other panels. we have had a preliminary exchange of views in zaragoza on the way forward for the provision and financing of the new capacities which are necessary as a result of the studies under way and original ideas have been put forward on common financing, which we are studying and which perhaps i will also be able to detail at some point in my speech. moreover, and in line with the permanent objective of transparency of our actions in relation to the atlantic alliance, the european union's group of experts known as the headline task force is already working, carrying out studies which are being brought together in a plus format during our presidency together with nato experts, who will continue to provide their support in this process and, therefore, in full coordination and transparency with the work of the atlantic alliance for the development of its defence capabilities initiative. i should also like to mention here the need to have a capacity-building mechanism which can give us a clear picture of the situation of european disability and disability at any given time. it must of course be an autonomous mechanism of the european union, but it must also take account of the positive experiences of the atlantic alliance, and this is in our own interests. the greatest difficulty today is undoubtedly in relation to the alliance force planning process in such aspects as, for example, the adapted form and the tasks of the capability group itself. we are thus entering a crucial, if not decisive, phase not only of our presidency but also of the development of european security and defence policy, namely relations between the european union and the atlantic alliance, the development of the agreement known as berlin plus, especially in the chapter on the european union's permanent access to nato capabilities in crisis management processes. the barcelona european council stressed the importance of reaching and concluding the permanent agreements between the european union and nato as soon as possible and instructed the presidency and the secretary-general/high representative to establish the high-level contacts necessary to bring the negotiations to a successful conclusion. our heads of state and government have simply stated that the achievement of a permanent framework of cooperation with nato cannot be delayed any longer and that ad hoc or case-by-case solutions could lead to blockade situations similar to those already experienced and would harm the union at the most inopportune moment, the moment of developing, for the first time, a crisis management operation, putting its present and future prestige at serious risk. mr president, i leave, in case there is any further interest on the part of the honourable members, the examination of the assumption by the european union of the leadership of certain missions, both with regard to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the continuation of operation amber fox, and the assumption of certain responsibilities in bosnia and herzegovina, and i can only refer in this context to the importance of exercise cme 02, which will test our organizational capacity through the crisis management procedures next may. it will be held during the spanish presidency and i can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that the difficulties which seemed insurmountable in principle have been overcome and i can also confirm that we will carry out this exercise not only on the scheduled date but - i am sure - with success, both the appropriate prominence given to the various institutions of the european union, such as the military committee, the political and security committee, the secretary-general, the high representative, and the general staff itself. i was referring to a second area, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, which is the institutional area. i should like to point out here that spain, together with a group of other countries, has been the driving force behind the need to set up and formalise a council of defence ministers. understand me, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a question of adding another council to the galaxy of european institutions; it is simply a question of those of us who have been entrusted with this responsibility being able to fulfil it, to work. we do not want to substitute ourselves for the foreign ministers' powers or interfere with them; we simply want to do our job, to be able to deal with each other on the problems i have mentioned: the effectiveness of the headline goal and the possible deployment of petersberg missions. for that, that council is of vital importance. we have already taken a first and important step, because it has aroused the consensus of all, which is the meeting, under the auspices of the general affairs council, of a council of defence ministers, consisting only of defence ministers, for next may in brussels. the european parliament has been a key player in the negotiations on the arms embargo, and it has been a key player in the negotiations on the arms embargo. and we wanted to take that step in a decisive way. it is not a question of interfering in the european arms industry, which would not be our competence, but of laying the foundations, the basic principles of a european arms policy. i said earlier that the european security and defence policy is an existential necessity for the union, and an arms policy is also an existential necessity for any defence policy. we have therefore prepared a kind of decalogue - the number of principles is the least important thing - which will create a consensus on the main principles which should guide a european arms policy. this list is part of the assertion that the european arms industry must be at the service of the cfsp and not the other way around - a claim which might seem obvious if one does not look at the reality which usually proves the opposite - and which must obviously be based on the principles of voluntariness, transparency and coordination with other organisations. the specific measures envisaged also include the harmonization of operational requirements, the common use of capabilities, the possible acquisition of these through a european arms agency, which would unify or at least coordinate the existing ones, the study of a more realistic accounting system, which would facilitate the long-term financing of certain systems and the search also - as i have already mentioned - for new forms of common financing. the need to define a methodology to address the shortcomings in the helsinki catalogue in the medium and long term also brings us to those principles of a european arms policy which will be discussed by the national arms directors of the various countries at a meeting which the presidency has called for 29 april. finally, mr president, as i come to the end of the time allotted to me and am trying to sum up aspects which are no less important but which are certainly not the essential priority, which is operational, let me refer, in the few seconds i have left, to those aspects which relate to the creation of a european defence consciousness before public opinion and to aspects linked to that consciousness. we have seen events which make it necessary to build up a legal framework of humanitarian law for the petersberg missions for the future. when spain made this proposal, the events of 11 september had not yet occurred. after 11 september, a few months later, certain events have shown that it is absolutely essential that we clarify the law applicable to crisis situations. i am referring, of course, to the treatment of prisoners, the treatment of the civilian population, the treatment of private property and the relationship with the civilian authorities in the conduct of these petersberg missions. we have thought that this could be a path that begins in salamanca, the european capital of culture during these months, where the ius ad bellum and the ius in bello were born many years ago, in the 16th century, and to this end we have also called for a meeting in salamanca in may, to which representatives of all the countries of the union and also third countries, as well as the international committee of the red cross, are invited. in conclusion, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we could not forget the mediterranean dimension of the cfsp since the spanish presidency. as you know, a meeting has been called for valencia on 22 and 23 april, a very timely call. we have also wanted the cfsp to be associated with the mediterranean dimension and to this end we have also called for a seminar on the mediterranean dimension of our common security and defence policy to be held in barcelona on 20 and 21 may. it is simply a matter of letting the countries on the southern shore know that the headline goal is not a threat, and even less so against them: it is a matter of establishing stable contacts with their armed forces, with their governments, which will make it possible to enrich the mediterranean as a zone of security and prosperity. and finally, with that objective in mind, we will be bringing together in cartagena, on a belgian initiative, public opinion leaders from the various defence departments together with specialists from various media outlets, to give a new impetus to the understanding and transmission of our message to the european citizenry. i would like to take this opportunity, mr president, to express a few thoughts on terrorism, which i think are important. ladies and gentlemen, i have already mentioned that the spanish presidency - and president aznar had the opportunity to say so here - places the fight against terrorism at the top of its priorities. it goes without saying that spain has a moral obligation in these circumstances to put the fight against terrorism at the forefront of its presidency. we have, for our part, given a lot of thought to this, together with our defence colleagues in the european union, and we agree that the fight against terrorism cannot be included in the petersberg missions, as i had earlier anticipated. we also agree that the fight against terrorism within the union is the responsibility of the rule of law, through its ordinary procedures, through the courts of justice and the security forces of the state, but we cannot remain indifferent to the defence of european citizens against possible terrorist attacks from outside, which would undoubtedly require military capabilities such as those we are trying to put in common with everyone. i am referring to the capabilities against nuclear, bacteriological or chemical weapons of mass destruction, to the intelligence capabilities, to the self-protection of our forces on deployed missions and, finally, to those which can protect in common what is already known as the common space or single european sky. these capacities, these missions, are the reflections and the basic outlines of a document which the spanish presidency is preparing to submit to the european council in seville, where we hope it will be adopted and for which we would also like the support of this parliament, as for all the above. thank you very much, mr. president. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen of the commission! i would like to thank you very much for this debate, particularly as we are also celebrating a first by the spanish presidency of the council introducing this subject through its minister for defence. i think that is a positive message too, and we welcome it as such, and we would like to thank you for it. i also regard as correct, mr president-in-office, what you said at the end about terrorism and what spain is rightly trying to do. but here again, when i look at the political landscape since 9/11, i feel that while we have made many decisions, that much has been discussed, but that much momentum has also been lost in the national ministerial machinery in terms of actually implementing this fight against terrorism and clarifying the interface issues between external and internal security. we have seen just last week at the european union mission in the middle east how little political influence we have. the reason why this impact is so small is that, in addition to our great efforts in foreign aid - we as the european union spend three times as much on foreign aid as the united states - and despite our increased commitment to civilian crisis management, we are still unable to provide real security guarantees because the military capabilities are still far from being developed. the decisions taken in recent years, from the treaty of amsterdam to the cologne treaty, have been excellent, but the implementation is still very regrettable in some areas. i am following the debates on the a 400 m transport aircraft in some of our member states, and they are an indication that although the objective is in sight and figures are perhaps being produced, the actual implementation and equipment are not sufficient and are not being produced quickly enough, and that is why we have a small role to play, because we are not taken seriously, because we cannot really deliver, because the implementation is not being done. we must also come to the institutional questions. mr president-in-office, i do not agree with you that this is an exclusively intergovernmental event. foreign aid and civilian crisis management are largely a first pillar task and should also be budgeted through the budgetary area. so it's not just an intergovernmental event. it's a mixed event, and we see that the weaknesses of the event lie on the intergovernmental side. we therefore believe that we must make improvements in this convention - with all the necessary consideration for national sovereignty which plays a role in this matter - and make final decisions. we cannot take decisions with a majority in brussels that all eu countries' soldiers have to go to war. the national parliaments have an important say in this. we must nevertheless, for example, press for increased cooperation in order to achieve a coalition of the willing. we have done this everywhere in nice, except in the field of defence policy, where we need it most. this was prevented in nice, unfortunately. this is where we need to make the breakthrough. the fact that we want to do all this together with our partners in nato is clear. the european union is a member of the european union, and it is a member of the european union, and it is a member of the european union, and it is a member of the european union. there must be an intensive dialogue. that is why i think it is right that a solution should be found with turkey, that a reasonable consultation process should take place when something happens in the vicinity of turkey. in this sense, the agreements, which unfortunately have not been officially presented to us, are hopefully going in the right direction. but there must be a clear statement from the council that this does not call into question the autonomous decisionmaking power of the european union as such. perhaps this can be brought up during the course of this debate so that we can be more certain about our position on this question. we must see that we agree on many of the objectives, but not on their implementation. the same is true of arms policy. we see that the technological gap between the united states and europe is growing, and that we can't really go to war together anymore because the technological gaps have become so huge. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why this is also a question of the european internal market. i am glad that commissioner patten is here, as is commissioner liikanen. i can imagine that the european research framework programme for joint projects, because of its proximity to industrial policy and defence policy, could also be used to an increasing extent in the field of military research. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work, and whether he has not already taken a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to asbestos at work. we spend 60% of the military expenditure of the united states of america, but with 10% of the output of the united states of america. it's obviously because we're not organized. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the fact that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments which have been tabled by the committee on budgets. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union must also improve its military capabilities to ensure that its interests are protected. she must improve to ensure peace. but i agree with you - i think you have set a very good example, mr president of the council - that a community which has a common currency also has common security interests. the european union has a common internal market, a common currency and a common legal order, and we must therefore ensure that we no longer have areas of differing security quality. we must establish a common security quality. i'm grateful that we've been able to move this forward in a collaborative process. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we should remember that the founding fathers of the european union did not create it for the sake of economic cooperation, but that its first task was to secure peace, and that there was already a project for a european defence policy from 1952 to 1954. it is right that we should pick up on this thread today. commissioner patten has challenged us. he asked us if we would be prepared to demand a 14% increase in defence spending, as is the case in the united states. but i would like to start by making another request, namely that we spend the money we are spending on defence in a more sensible way, that we do not pursue 15 different policies in this area, but that we exploit the synergies that are possible because we are working together in this area. this means that the rules of the european single market must be applied more and more in this area. there are exceptions here which are useful, but these exceptions are applied too extensively, and we must therefore ensure that these rules are increasingly applied. if 15 different nations are finally working together, then there will be some standardization in this area, because otherwise the biggest compatibility problems will arise. we have developed procedures for standardisation in the civil sector which can also be useful in this context, particularly with regard to dual use. finally, we should bear in mind that the most important pilot project in this field is the crisis intervention force decided upon in helsinki. the question is: should the european union really take the lead in macedonia in the foreseeable future? i think we have to look at this very carefully. we can't take one step before the next. we must not be blackmailed by any party, because this first european action will be of the greatest importance to us.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are facing the worst situation ever seen in the region, apart from the state of war in '67 and '73. israel shows its utter contempt for the resolutions of the un security council, for international law, for international agreements and conventions. we are complicit in the massacres, the crimes against humanity, the oppression and daily humiliation of an entire people if we keep silent and seek a balance between oppressor and oppressed. there is no such thing! what can we do? i mean a lot. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to finance its own activities. i am speaking to you now, commissioner, as the representative of the commission here - and i am speaking to commission president prodi, whom i have great respect for as a person and for his work. i just don't understand the statements he's made in the last few days. i quote:
- mr president, mr commissioner, mr president of the council, mr high commissioner! this is about the struggle for existence of two peoples. this is particularly true from their own subjective point of view. it is a struggle for existence, and it is not exactly under good political leadership on either side. since this is so and the emotions are so high, it is wrong to investigate where this or that action originated. anyone who knows the recent or ancient history of the holy land knows that you can't find the one who threw the first stone. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so it's extremely important that we don't add fuel to the fire. i would like to thank all of you for being here today and for the fact that this meeting is taking place in madrid tomorrow. if the european union, the united states of america, russia and the united nations come to a common position, work it out with their highest foreign policy representatives and explain it jointly to both parties, then for the first time there is a chance that the seriousness of the situation will be understood on both sides. the credibility factor is there above all, because just as each individual has credibility deficits on one side or the other, the credibility here is given in the collective. this should be used accordingly. a credibility that you are able to give security guarantees for a state of israel and for a state of palestine, that you are able to take into account the proposals of the crown prince of saudi arabia, including the recognition of the state of israel by arab states, and then on this basis to build the credibility that it is now time to carry out the withdrawal and renounce terrorism - a condition for entering into concrete negotiations. we have our own specific interest here, not just in peace and human rights in general: because of the proximity, we are interested in ensuring that the anti-terrorist coalition does not break up, that a new fundamentalism does not use this as an alibi, and that we make progress with our mediterranean policy within the framework of the barcelona process. we should therefore try to ensure that mr solana, mr patten and the presidency do not go to jerusalem alone and that mr powell does not go there alone eight days later. you'll get it together tomorrow. this would be the message of the world community to the warring parties, to get us out of the sea of fire. i wish you all the best in achieving that success tomorrow.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european union has also made a number of important commitments to the countries of central and eastern europe. in fact, his policies have led to less security for israel and less peace for the region. we in europe must also criticise the israeli approach, because we measure israel by the standards we share, the rule of law and the protection of human rights. but this statement must not obscure the essence of the conflict. it is a question of the right to exist, the very existence of israel, not that of the arab neighbours. a secure existence includes a life free of terror. the right to live without terror has been denied to israelis all along. the european union has always been a party to the peace process, and it is our duty to ensure that the peace process is not only a peaceful one but also a peaceful one. the responsibility for this terror clearly lies with the palestinian leader arafat, who has never distanced himself from terrorism, let alone effectively combated it. the inadequate fight against terrorism has destroyed a lot of trust. we europeans should not further diminish our influence by giving the impression that we are no longer able to distinguish between cause and effect. but terror and violence will not solve conflict. that is why both sides must end their violent conflict. israel must withdraw from the palestinian territories. the terror of the palestinians must be stopped. we must demand both! (applause from the centre)
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0095/2002), on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the common position adopted by the council (c5-0635/2001 - 2000/0325 (cod)) with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive on the establishment of a community system for the monitoring and reporting of ship traffic and repealing directive 93/75/eec (rapporteur: mr sterckx).
- mr president, madam vice-president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i think it will be crucial for the council to decide quickly what we are going to decide on tomorrow at second reading. the rapporteur has been very careful. it has not gone overboard in the second reading because we want to get results quickly, because, frankly, the erika ii disaster happened a long time ago. we must therefore act quickly and i would point out that the transponders are not only suitable for surveillance but also for rescue operations. so if a ship is really in distress and cannot land far enough, the transponders can reach it faster and rescue it. our demands for the equipment of transponders and the equipment of ship data recorders are actually very tentative with regard to the council. we hope that the imo will adopt a more rapid timetable in the autumn, which we can implement quickly. the commissioner, mr sterckx, has been kind enough to give you three years for the compensation scheme for ports of refuge, and the key is that we react more quickly. the erika would not have sunk, it could have run into the harbour, and that's why it's a mirror image. we want ports of escape to secure ships, but for ports to allow ships to enter, we need compensation. commissioner, if you can reach a settlement more quickly, then the willingness of ports to allow ships to enter even in difficult situations will be much greater, and a case like erika ii can be prevented. (applause from the centre)
- thank you very much, commissioner de palacio! the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0059/2002) by mrs palacio vallelersundi, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, on the proposal for a council regulation on the community patent (com (2000) 412 - c5-0461/2000 - 2000/0177 (cns)).
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for her report, particularly on behalf of my group. it has taken some time, of course, because it is a complicated and important subject, but we have found a compromise which is acceptable to the majority in this house. it won't make everyone happy, but that's the nature of compromise. this is a good result. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but i would like to ask the commissioner to take a decision on the matter. the commission had originally proposed that there should be a purely european judicial system, parallel to the existing national structures, so to speak. i have always said - and i want to emphasize this again - that i think this is a completely wrong way. we should not make the mistake that the united states of america has already made in its judicial structure, by putting a federal court system alongside a state court system, under the motto: the federal courts decide on federal law and the state courts on state law. this is not a sensible thing, it is not something that the taxpayer can explain, it costs a lot of money and it leads to a divergence of jurisprudence. we believe that european courts are also national courts and that national courts must naturally apply european law as well as national law. it is therefore a very important step forward, as the report by anna palacio vallelersundi states, that the powers that exist at national level can continue to be used for european law in the future and that the first instance will include national courts. in order to maintain the unity of the judiciary and to avoid a divergence in europe, there will then be a supreme european court of second instance. i think that's a good suggestion. mr president, i would like to apologize for having to leave this sitting of parliament at once, as i have other commitments and must attend another sitting. i apologize for this and thank you for your attention.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. in my view, the question of which national courts have jurisdiction over a european patent is not the crucial question in this report. i am more concerned with the purpose of this design and what exactly such a patent regime does. this report and other planned changes to the eu patent regime are intended to make patent applications more attractive by extending patent protection directly in the eu. a patent suggests that the patent holder has invented everything that she wants to patent. but in general it draws on all kinds of knowledge that people before it have developed and developed further and that it can only use, and that free of charge, if it does not fall under the patent regime. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the patent is not infringed. even algorithms in computer programs are no longer to be freely available. this takes away the basis for any developer to create a new computer program. the argument often advanced by the patent advocates is that patents would benefit women inventors who do not work for a corporation but make their inventions privately or at least with few financial resources. a patent would protect these people from companies using their invention without paying the inventors, and thus not paying them for their work. the problem with this idea is that this image is far from the reality of patenting. in germany, at least, corporations hold most of the patents and are continuing to expand them. access to the internet is often denied to private individuals because of high patent fees. as the term intellectual property suggests, patenting is nothing more than the valuation of intangible things such as ideas, inventions and even discoveries. the fact that the proponents of capitalism are doing this to themselves, at least if they believe in their creed of innovation and competitiveness, does not interest me. because my goal is the free access and exchange of information and knowledge and their further development. this is precisely the prerequisite for a self-determined life and an emancipatory political approach. in contrast, the palacio report aims to convert an increasing proportion of the world's knowledge into commodities, thereby making it profitable for industry.
commission. – the commission welcomes the report prepared by mrs palacio vallelersundi. at a moment when the council is still struggling with the community patent, it is important that parliament should deliver its opinion on this difficult and complex issue. the report of mrs palacio vallelersundi addresses all the key issues that are relevant to the community patent. several of the proposed amendments enshrine principles that the commission is ready to consider favourably. firstly, there is the principle enshrined in amendment no 8 to allow testing for the sole purpose of receiving market authorisation after the expiry of the patent – the so-called bowler exception. the commission has already proposed a similar line in its revision and whilst not committing myself to the exact wording, i can inform parliament that the commission will carefully consider the issue, taking into account the need for the community patent and member states' national patents to produce identical rights. but amendment no 18 on the same issue goes too far and cannot be accepted. a second example regards amendments nos 1, 6, 7, 21, 27 and 39. these amendments refer to the national patent offices. the commission recognises the important role of those national patent offices. the commission can also agree in principle that they should participate in the processing of community patent applications provided that four conditions are met: first, to ensure the quality and uniformity of community patents, national patent offices and their participation should be set in a properly defined framework. partnership agreements with the european patent office, with quality criteria and mechanisms for quality control would constitute a proper framework. secondly, national patent offices' participation could go as far as doing the prior search – a suggestion made earlier this evening by mrs palacio vallelersundi. thirdly, the applicant should always be free to ask that his application should be processed exclusively by the european patent office. finally, national patent offices and their participation should be restricted by clear quantitative limits. but even with this clarification, i should like to stress that the participation of national patent offices is a matter on which the community alone cannot decide. it is thus not an issue for the regulation but should be negotiated in the framework of the european patent organisation. a third example is amendment no 9 on the distribution of income from renewal fees. while the commission can agree to the principle of distribution of part of the fee income to member states or their patent offices to be used for innovation promotion purposes, it nevertheless considers that this issue should be dealt with in the context of the european patent organisation. it remains to be discussed whether the importance of the patent office is the right distribution key. some of the proposed amendments are not in line with the objectives of the community patent and cannot therefore be accepted. today the driving force for a community patent is the competitiveness of european industry at a global level. there is no point in creating an instrument unless it is affordable enough and offers a sufficient level of legal certainty for it to be used by our inventors and our industry. the commission continues to believe in affordable language and translation regimes. here two different issues are involved. the first one is the language for the processing of patent applications and for the granting of the patent, including translations of applications. the european patent office functions well with a three-language regime. it is not necessary to modify it, whether by reducing the number of languages, as has been suggested by some, or by adding more languages. in particular, adding two or more working languages to the european patent office would considerably complicate its work. it would put a heavy burden on its cost-effectiveness. the european patent convention allows, in principle, eu citizens to submit the initial application in their own language and compensation is provided for those applicants who must translate their applications into one of the working languages of the european patent office. i should also like to add that the language regime of the european patent office cannot be decided by the community alone. that is the first issue. the second issue concerns translations of the patent once it has been granted. if the amendments imply that the patent would have to be translated in its entirety into all official community languages which soon will be either 19 or 20, depending on whether maltese becomes an official language, this would make the patent so expensive that the community patent system would simply not be used. i remind parliament that we have been here before. there has been a luxembourg convention which required translations of the whole patent into all the official languages. that convention has remained a dead letter – it has never been used. surely we do not want to repeat the same mistake. let me give some examples of the costs that would be involved: there would be eur 17 000 for translations just in the community of 15 member states. last but not least, costs must be evaluated, taking account of enlargement. translations into 19 community languages, excluding maltese, would cost around eur 31 500 per patent. for all these reasons the commission cannot accept the following amendments: amendments nos 2, 22, 31, 32(2), 32(3), nor amendment no 36. the commission would like to accept amendment no 34. this does not mean that the commission would systematically oppose any translation requirements of a part of the patent or patent application or of other information. after all, there is the patent in its entirety, a summary and the claims. so we may be talking about different requirements for translation. the commission could accept such translations of parts of the patent provided that they were truly useful and that the overall community patent system remains affordable, simple, cost-effective and legally certain. in this respect amendment no 25, part of amendment no 19(1), 30 and parts of 32(1) and 32(4) merit closer evaluation. but parts of amendments nos 19(1), 19(2), 19(3) and 19(4), part of amendments nos 20, 28 and part of amendment no 31(4) are unacceptable. firstly, there is no reason to require a translation of the patent into the language in which the initial application has been submitted. that already exists. secondly, the community budget should simply not be used to finance translations, nor should applicants be obliged to use the translation services of the european institutions. thirdly, the patent should be published by the european patent office in the community patents bulletin and not in the official journal of the european communities. fourthly, article 44(3), as proposed by the commission, offers sufficient guarantees to protect third parties in good faith. there is no reason to require further formalities from a patent holder who wishes to enforce his patents. on the other hand, article 11(3) cannot be deleted because it corresponds to article 44(3); it just applies in the pre-grant phase. finally, the procedural languages of the courts will have to be determined in a separate context and not here. the commission also has difficulties with amendments nos 23, 24 and 38 on the relationship with the european patent organisation. the commission continues to believe in a user-friendly system where applicants can obtain a european patent and a community patent in one go from the european patent office. the accession to the european patents convention will enable this. it will also enable sufficient legal and political control over the european patent office, taking into account that the european patent office is not a community body. as far as the judicial system, about which a number of members have spoken, is concerned, the commission is prepared to consider amendments nos 26 and 29 in principle, but in the light of the new ec treaty provisions – namely articles 225a and 229a – adopted by the nice treaty. the treaty introduced the possibility to set up community judicial panels to handle cases in first instance with the possibility of appeal to the court of first instance of the european communities. the setting up of such a system would naturally be possible only once the nice treaty has entered into force and it requires a separate commission proposal. however, the commission has major difficulties with amendments nos 3, 4, 5 and 10 to 17. there should be a high level of expertise and unitary case-law right from the start. that pleads for a centralised community jurisdiction. the system proposed in the amendments would not provide this, because some national courts would have so few cases to handle that they could not build up or maintain the necessary expertise. that could result in divergent case-law and quasi-systematic appeals to a higher court. this would imply higher litigation costs and also that parties would have to wait longer for the final decision. i should also like to recall that it is highly doubtful whether the articles of the ec treaty, to which the amendments refer, would allow a system as proposed in those amendments. as regards reporting on the application of the regulation, the commission is ready to prepare the first report at the latest within five years of the entry into force of the regulation. should the commission believe that earlier reporting is required, it will do so. moreover, the formulation in the commission proposals, which focuses on the costs for obtaining and renewing the patents, should already cover all relevant cost factors. it also goes without saying that the commission will propose amendments whenever this is appropriate. therefore the commission cannot, regrettably, endorse amendment no 33. finally, the commission considers that amendment nos 35 and 37 are unacceptable. the commission has presented a proposal for a directive on the patentability of software-related inventions, which is now before parliament and the council. therefore a debate on this question should be carried out in that context and not in this. i would like to thank members for their support and collaboration on this important regulation. i hope that europe will soon be able to improve its performance at the global level by offering its industry a competitive, unitary, affordable and legally secure community patent.
- thank you, chief. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the common position of the council on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work (rapporteur: mr florenz); - a5-0097/2002 by mr florenz, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council (c5-0637/2001 - 2000/0159 (cod)) with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (rapporteur: mr florenz).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already done so. as rapporteur, i regret that a rather interesting report on the question of how we will recycle electronic waste in europe in the future is being debated in the middle of the night. when i tell my constituents at home that we are discussing such matters until midnight, no one believes me. but the administration seems to have no other way. i am often asked why we need such a directive. we are not going to be able to do that. the answer is relatively simple. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs. this alone is enough to show that this is not just scrap metal, but a valuable resource that we cannot deny future generations, let alone throw away. i shall come straight to the first demand of the european parliament. we have included in the various discussions and committee decisions a ban on disposal in the directive, which tells the citizens of europe that shaving equipment must no longer be thrown into the garbage can, but must in future be collected separately because it is a valuable material. the member states, and my own country in particular, are not very ambitious and do not believe that such an appeal to the member states and to the citizens of europe is necessary. the member states are also not as involved in the question of what collective objectives we want to pursue in the future. the member states consider that a non-binding quota, in this case 4 kg, is the right way forward. i can only say that why should a parliament like this deal with a report if the result is non-binding and falls short of the objectives already achieved? the united kingdom - you will be surprised to hear - already has far more than we are asking for, namely a binding 6 kg. the question is, of course, who pays the cost? there are differences of opinion in this house too. i think the commission originally made a very good proposal, which unfortunately has been abandoned. there are two models in terms of cost, one for historical waste and another for new equipment. as far as historical waste is concerned, the cost should be borne collectively, because it is no longer possible to do this individually. you know that there are a lot of orphan products; there are no-name products, and it's precisely these that you can no longer individually classify. that is why we must have collective financing. but the cost should be borne by the companies right up to the collection point, for example in the city centre. there are some members in this house who believe that in future the toothbrush near the bathroom will have to be collected from the companies, the producers. of course, this is a bit of an exaggeration, but i would point out that this is a huge cost: from the collection point to the front door, exactly 50% of the cost is involved. i am convinced that in many cases this will lead to mediumsized enterprises throughout europe suffering very badly. i therefore believe that in future the costs for businesses should be incurred at the point of collection rather than at the door. in the case of collective historical waste, we have proposed an alternative cost-sharing system for businesses, the voluntary visible fee. this helps to answer the question whether there is a retroactive effect in this area. it is precisely when the costs are borne collectively, but also shown, that the question of retroactivity, which we have passionately debated in this house on the occasion of the altauto directive, will probably be answered. the financing of new products is, in my view and in the view of this house, a matter of individual cost allocation. there are many good reasons for this, and it is also the potential for innovation and motivation, because in the future companies will need to know that they can get their refrigerator back to their backyard. you've got to find a way to take it apart more easily and more cheaply. that is why we are proposing individual responsibility. we would not allow individual member states to decide on this, but we would ask the individual firms to do so for themselves. it is very important to me that the costs also go to the collection point. we are now seeing the implementation of the altauto regulation, where this parliament has also decided that companies must pay for everything, that companies today say - there are very sound names in my country: whoever pays for everything determines the price! that's exactly what's unfriendly to the consumer. i would therefore like to warn you against thinking that picking up at the door is a consumer-friendly act, mrs van brempt, it is not, because then the companies have the sole possibility of deciding what the collection costs and the recycling costs actually are. a third is no longer a controller. i am an entrepreneur enough to know that this is an opportunity for companies too, if you say, as the council and unfortunately now mrs wallström say, that the costs should be borne at least from the point of collection. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have said that we want to merge the different rules in europe in the long term with the aim of obtaining comparable rules. that was one of my great ideals, why i went to europe, because i said that this huge single market must gather its forces of synergy and we go and do, because we are such good people, here again individual, as many as 15 different possibilities in this single market. this can't be right. i would like to point out that this directive is aimed at the member states, which are already working hard to achieve the objectives and have set up systems, and that we are doing everything we can to ensure that these member states, i am thinking of the netherlands, for example, but also of belgium, can maintain the systems they have today. i would be very happy to punish these countries and say that they must now adopt the european system. of course not, they should achieve the objectives, and if they achieve the objectives and the quotas and the targets, then they should be able to maintain their financing systems over a distance of about 10 years. the industry has written angry letters in recent days because a decision was not taken in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, namely the question: how can we protect ourselves against freeriders in future with new products? you all know about the super-deals just before christmas: big companies buy 10,000 refrigerators in the pacific, and they're distributed by some dreamy agent to wherever, and then all of a sudden, when the refrigerators are sold, that agent, that importer is gone, and the small and medium-sized companies that then pay the piper have to suffer. the industry itself must develop safeguards to protect itself against freeriders in the form of guarantees. the industry is smart enough to protect itself from such freeriders or - excuse me - even bankruptcy takers. i think that this is also a very timely protection for smes. there is a euphoric passion, madam president, to make the word 'recycling' very difficult in this area. recycling always sounds great at first, but is recycling really as good as we think? a 10-year-old refrigerator is a power-stealer of the first order. a 20-year-old washing machine needs water in ways you can't imagine. this is not automatically the best solution, but it is a critical part of the test bench. i hope you'll agree with me. i have increased the recovery rates by a very modest 10% because we are about to get a landfill ban. i have left the recycling and reuse rates because they are entry rates and because industry, including the smaller industries, must be guided by these entry rates. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are seeking a ban on the six dangerous substances in the shortest possible time. we moved it from 2008 to 2006. commissioner, i would be delighted if you could follow these initiatives and motivate your colleagues in the member states! they were not very ambitious on the electronic waste regulation.
- thank you, mr florenz! i fully understand your regret about the timing of this debate. i would like to remind you, however, that it is not the administration or the bureau of parliament but the group chairmen who set the agenda in their own wisdom. if the world's powers think that we should discuss nato and defence during the day, which is a subject for which we have no competence, then so be it. many of them act on the principle that the abundance of knowledge can only disturb the power of judgment, and agendas of this nature are thus produced. i can 't help it ! (applause) i would like to thank
- thank you, commissioner. the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0090/2002) on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council (c5-0638/2001 - 2001/0018 (cod)) with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive amending for the 24th time council directive 76/769/eec on the restriction of the placing on the market and use of certain dangerous substances and preparations (pentabromodiphenyl ether) (rapporteur: mrs ries).
the commission. mr president, i would like to thank you. i would first like to thank members for their interest in this proposal and i would of course like to thank the rapporteur, mrs ries, in particular for her constructive work. this is definitely an important directive. it prohibits the use of pentabromodiphenyl ether, pentabde, which has been identified by a risk assessment as posing an environmental risk. the substance accumulates in nature and, as already noted, has been found in breast milk. the directive is far-reaching, covering all uses of pentabde and all types of articles containing this substance. the directive is based on the precautionary principle. the proposed directive will not increase the risk of fire or the risk to the environment, as there are already suitable alternatives available. i can understand and share the concern of members with regard to other closely related subjects which are not within the original scope of the proposed directive, and i would like to comment on this as well as the question of timing. the commission is actively investigating the risks of the two closely related substances, octabde and decabde, as well as the risks that could arise from fire if these substances were to be banned from the market. the commission's position is that we should minimise the overall risks. we are close to completing this risk assessment for octabde and decabde and we expect to have information on the consequences of banning these substances before the end of the year. this concerns both the limitation of chemical risks and the possible increase in risks from fire. on the basis of the results of this work, the commission will present a new proposal at the beginning of next year, i.e. at the beginning of 2003. the commission will also give clear instructions to all parties concerned to speed up the completion of the assessments if possible before the end of the year. in view of this, it is not possible for the commission to accept the amendments tabled by parliament which would extend the scope of the proposed directive to include a total and immediate ban on octave and decable audio. this concerns amendments nos 1, 2, 3, 7, 8, 9 and 10. the commission also cannot accept the amendment which would ban decabde altogether from 1 january 2006 if the outcome of the risk assessment showed that the substance posed risks. the commission notes that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. i assure members that the commission will act on these matters at the earliest possible opportunity, taking account of the precautionary principle. i also hope that members are aware that the commission has proposed a ban on these three substances - penta, octa and decadiphenyls - in our proposal for a directive on the restriction of dangerous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. this is the case with the florenz report, which was also discussed at this sitting. let me stress that the commission will ensure that the proposal we will present early next year on octabde and decabde will be compatible with our proposal on the restriction of hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. as the risk assessment for octabde and decabde is well advanced, it will be possible for the commission to take action much earlier than 2006 if necessary. the completion of the risk assessments and the examination of the availability of safe substitutes should make it possible to identify the cases where the use poses risks. appropriate measures can then be taken immediately. as the assessments will be ready shortly, the measures decided on can be implemented well before 2006. on the basis of the assurances i have now given on behalf of the commission, i look forward to the swift adoption of this very urgent legislative proposal. i thank the members for this debate.
- thank you, commissioner wallström! - i know. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. before closing the debate, i would like to point out to our services that the formula for diphenyl ether, a decarbrominated derivative, mentioned in amendment no 4 is incorrect. it is in fact indicated as c12h2br10o. both hydrogens must be removed. (the sitting was closed at 11.37 p.m.) the next item is the report (doc.
- the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the situation in chechnya. i call minister de miguel on behalf of the council.
council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since the resumption of russian military operations in the russian federal republic of chechnya in september 1999, the situation in the chechen republic has been the subject of the european union's primary attention. the conclusions of the helsinki european council in december 1999 and the actions taken by the successive presidencies since then are proof of this. contrary to what some predicted, this position has not changed since the attacks of september 11. the spanish presidency has been acting and will continue to act in the course of this six-month period with full consistency in relation to this concern of the union. the presidency's work plan for the development of the common strategy for russia already included a paragraph stating the will to 'continue to express the union's wish for a speedy peaceful solution in chechnya within the framework of the principle of territorial integrity, the rule of law and respect for human rights, and to promote the improvement of conditions for the distribution of more secure and effective humanitarian aid'. in the months since january, this declaration of intent has been translated into a number of concrete actions. the presidency has put the chechen question on the agenda of all the meetings of political dialogue between the european union and russia at various levels, both between political representatives, such as the ministerial troika, the eu-russia troika, the eu-russia troika of political directors and the psc-russia troika, and at expert meetings, the so-called coest troika. the presidency raised the matter again at the recent troika meeting at ministerial level with the russian foreign minister, mr ivanov, on 2 april. the troika of heads of mission of the union in moscow also met mr gusarov, deputy foreign minister of the russian federation, at the beginning of march to express the union's concern about the human rights situation in the region. all these actions, which have served to convey to the russian authorities the european union's view of developments in the caucasus, must be supplemented by the request for and subsequent obtaining of the support of these authorities for the trip which the troika of heads of mission is planning to make to the region this april and which will enable direct information on developments to be obtained. for the same information purpose, the troika of heads of mission maintains frequent contacts with representatives of ngos and competent authorities such as mr calamanov, the kremlin's special representative for human rights in chechnya, and mr yastrzhembsky, the presidential spokesman. in this list of specific measures, although not limited, in this case, to those developed specifically by the spanish presidency, it must be remembered that the union's concern has translated into a significant financial commitment. the european union is now the largest donor of humanitarian aid to the region. the amounts allocated to it amount to eur 65 million for the period from the resumption of military operations in 1999 to the present. of these funds, 40 million correspond to the year 2001. as regards the current situation in chechnya, i would like to highlight a few points. in the field of human rights, all the reports from the osce support group, the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe and various ngos continue to give cause for concern. lord judd noted in his report to the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe that little progress had been made in this field during the past year. the reports of the osce support group in the first months of this year in relation to the military operations conducted during this period reported on the disappearance of civilians, looting, indiscriminate use of force and other violations of the rights of the civilian population, all of which occurred in contravention of what had been agreed previously. not all operations were attended by the representative of the public prosecutor's office. the steps taken by the russian authorities to improve this situation must be acknowledged. president putin - it is fair to say - has expressed his commitment that those guilty of human rights violations, even if they belong to the military establishment, should be tried and convicted. these statements have been repeated by other official representatives. the office of the kremlin special representative for human rights in chechnya has continued its work, channelling complaints about alleged human rights violations. the russian authorities cooperate with organisations active in this field. as regards intergovernmental organisations, in addition to cooperation with the united nations high commissioner for human rights, the mandate of the osce support group in chechnya was renewed until 31 december 2002; three representatives of the council of europe continued to participate in the work of the same office and the joint working group consisting of representatives of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe and the state duma continued its work. as regards the ngos, it was agreed last january to set up a council for the protection of human rights in chechnya, comprising representatives of these non-governmental organisations, the prosecutor's office, the security forces and local authorities, with monthly meetings. the presence of chechen police at the checkpoints on the country's roads is also one of the positive measures. however, as the present situation has been diagnosed, these measures are insufficient. as regards the humanitarian situation, the plight of hundreds of thousands of displaced persons, whose main obstacle to returning to chechnya is the persistence of insecurity, and some of the difficulties faced by humanitarian organisations in carrying out their work, continue to exist. in this area too, it must be acknowledged that the russian authorities have taken various measures: apart from the setting up of the working group with ngos, which will provide a forum for dealing with these issues, the authorities of the russian federation have implemented various measures to normalize life in the area. these measures are not limited to socioeconomic development plans, the reopening of schools or the re-establishment of the public pension system, but also extend to the preparation of a draft constitution to be submitted to a referendum. this will be the first step towards holding new elections in which the people of the region can elect their representatives. in view of the persistence of the problems i have just described, the european union has used - and will continue to use - all channels of dialogue to convey to the russian authorities its position, which is based on the following points: firstly, the european union recognises the territorial integrity of the russian federation and the right and responsibility of its authorities to protect its population from terrorist acts, which the union condemns in no uncertain terms. this recognition is accompanied by a twofold statement: firstly, the union expresses its firm conviction that this responsibility to protect the population must be exercised within the framework of the rule of law and the strictest respect for human rights and international humanitarian law, enshrined in numerous treaties to which the russian federation is a party. the european union therefore calls on the russian authorities to bring to justice and punish those responsible for human rights violations, thus eliminating any risk of impunity, which unfortunately existed in the past. it also urges the authorities to provide federal officials with adequate human rights training, which will prevent such events from occurring in the future. i would like to point out the contribution made in this area by the council of europe and the office of the united nations high commissioner for human rights and to take this opportunity to express the european union's full support for the work that both these organisations and the osce have been carrying out in chechnya. the union also hopes that the russian authorities will continue to cooperate with international bodies and ngos in order to remove the obstacles which still hinder their work. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the european economic area. the improvement in the human rights situation will undoubtedly favour the return of displaced persons. the removal of restrictions, which currently make it difficult for media to access the area, should also help to build greater confidence, both among the civilian population and at international level. secondly, the second major point in the union's position is that terrorist acts perpetrated by armed chechen factions are certainly part of the problem but are far from the problem. the european union is also committed to the peace process, and we are convinced that the peace process in chechnya will be successful. this result must be achieved through dialogue with the various sectors of chechen society. the european union welcomes the progress made in the negotiations on the accession of the republic of moldova to the european union. thirdly, the european union considers that its position on this issue is equitable, since, on the one hand, it does not hesitate to acknowledge the progress made, but on the other hand, it should not hesitate to continue to point out those areas where serious deficiencies persist. the union is thus acting in full accordance with the set of values on which its very existence and its relations with third states, and within these the strategic relationship between the european union and russia, are based. the core of these values which the union and russia share is respect for the rule of law and the safeguarding of human rights and fundamental freedoms. this attitude of equanimity and consistency will also guide the european union's action on the treatment of chechnya at the 58th session of the commission on human rights. the union has expressed to the russian authorities its full willingness to negotiate a statement from the presidency incorporating both progress and shortcomings in terms analogous to those which i have set out before this house. the european union has also informed the russian authorities that if this goodwill of the union is not reciprocated by russia, the european union will not hesitate to resort to the adoption of a resolution, as was necessary to do at the 2001 partsession. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i can only stress the firmness and consistency of the union's position, which will continue to regard the situation in chechnya as a priority in its relations with russia and will continue to devote all its attention and efforts to it when events require it, and also to affirm that this issue will be an important part of the dialogue at the highest level to take place on 28 may on the occasion of the summit between russia and the european union.
commission. – mr president, the commission shares parliament's concern about the deterioration of the situation on the ground in chechnya, as shown by a number of recent solid reports of serious violations of human rights over the past few months. in view of these reports, including from the council of europe, the european union has continued to express its concerns on the matter to the russian authorities through the appropriate diplomatic channels. as you are aware, the eu-russia political dialogue offers an intensive calendar of high-level meetings, including last week’s ministerial troika with foreign minister ivanov in madrid. the position of the european union on this issue is quite simple, and quite firm. the eu supports russia wholeheartedly in its legitimate fight against terrorism, in chechnya and elsewhere. there should be no doubt about this. our calls for a political solution which, without prejudice to the territorial integrity of the russian federation, satisfies the majority of the chechen people, do not in any way undermine such support. equally, there should be no doubt about the eu commitment to uphold human rights in the fight against terrorism world-wide, including in chechnya. in this regard, i am confident that the european parliament fully shares the view that the fight against international terrorism cannot serve as justification or excuse for the violation of the most basic individual human rights, be it in the west bank, in afghanistan or in chechnya. this should not change – and has indeed not changed – due to the horrible terrorist attacks of 11 september last year. against the background of our joint efforts with russia to establish closer political and economic relations, the european union has repeatedly made clear to russia that it expects her to act in full accordance with the values that russia undertook to respect when it entered the council of europe and the osce. these basic principles of full respect of fundamental human rights and the rule of law, including international law, constitute an integral part of the strategic partnership that we are trying to build together. as you are aware, the human rights commission is currently meeting in session in geneva, and chechnya remains an important item on the agenda. the european commission is fully participating in the internal deliberations of the eu in this forum. while the european union is prepared to engage in good-faith negotiations with russia, in order to acknowledge all positive efforts undertaken by russia during last year, there are still too many very serious issues that have yet to be addressed in chechnya. on the positive side, we have acknowledged some positive russian steps towards a political solution that could guarantee long-term peace and stability in chechnya. we welcome these steps and are prepared to support them in any way necessary. in the same vein, we must also acknowledge that there has been progress on a number of issues during the last year, including on physical reconstruction, setting the conditions for economic development, supporting the reestablishment of the chechen judiciary to restore the rule of law, and so on. clearly, a lot more has to be done in all of these fields, but there has been progress and credit should be given where credit is due. also, we have noted that the number of reported violations of human rights that have been followed up by prosecutors has increased. however, we must still regret the excessively low number of follow-up convictions that these reports have resulted in. it is clear that, by dispelling any notion of impunity, the punishment of those guilty of human rights violations is crucial to avoid further violations in the future. more must be done here. another area where progress is warranted is in the provision of and access to humanitarian assistance. as you are aware, the european union, through the european commission humanitarian office echo, is by far the largest donor of humanitarian aid to the northern caucasus. since october 1999, we have provided some eur 65 million in aid to the victims of the chechnya conflict and last year alone more than eur 40 million. our funding is crucial for the presence of international humanitarian ngos in the area, as well as being crucial also for the work and presence of un organisations, notably the unhcr. in our view it is essential that representatives of the international humanitarian community are present in chechnya. we remain concerned about the persistent difficult operating conditions for humanitarian organisations in the northern caucasus, notably the opaque and time-consuming system of access and work permits for chechnya, and also the denial to humanitarian ngos of the right to use vhf radio communication which is very important for their safety. we have been constructively raising the issue of operating conditions with russian authorities at various levels for more than two years, with only very minor improvements so far. we have tried all possible channels; this is a discordant element in the ongoing discussion with the russian authorities, but we will not stop pressing these issues. security conditions in the northern caucasus remain difficult; indeed, one must expect a certain level of operational problems. but we expect more cooperation to be forthcoming from the relevant russian authorities. in this regard, we will continue to advocate concrete improvements, so as to facilitate the conduct of humanitarian operations according to the basic established normal international standards of safety, efficiency and independent monitoring and evaluation. in parallel, we will keep insisting that any repatriation of chechen displaced persons, from within neighbouring ingushetia and daghestan, and refugees from georgia, must take place on a voluntary and unconditional basis only. this is becoming a more and more serious issue. a massive return movement seems rather unlikely at present, given the persisting instability and violence in chechnya and the very limited progress in the implementation of the russian government's long-announced rehabilitation and reconstruction programme.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we had a very serious debate here in parliament yesterday on the situation in the middle east, and i think the debate on chechnya deserves the same seriousness. there is a bleeding wound in europe: in chechnya, in the russian federation. we, as the european people's party, as european democrats, say: the security of our european continent in the 21st century will depend on having a functioning, ... (applause)... democratic, human rights-committed european union and on having a functioning, democratic, human rights-committed russia and on both, the european union and russia, working together in partnership. we want this strategic partnership because it is important for the future of our continent. but we must not remain silent on human rights violations, and the european parliament in particular must not remain silent. there are observers who say that more people die in chechnya than in the middle east. our group believes that the life of a chechen is worth the same as that of a citizen of the united states or of the european union ... (applause)... and that the dignity of a muslim in chechnya is worth the same as the life of a christian, a jew, a palestinian, a hindu, a buddhist or a non-believer. (applause from the centre) human rights everywhere in the world and especially as we are europeans, this is a concern are indivisible! (applause from the centre) the president of russia is visiting a country of the european union these days. i heard his comments on chechnya on german television last night. the russian ambassador to the european union, mr likashev, and the chairman of the duma foreign affairs committee, mr dimitri rogosin, visited me in brussels last week to brief me on the situation. i am glad that our debate on chechnya has also been an occasion for contact with our group. of course we must fight terrorism, but we must not do so in a way that disproportionately affects the human rights and lives of people in chechnya, of civilians who want to live in peace. (applause from the centre) the fact that a study by the united states department of state on 4 march, statements by médecins sans frontières, an organisation which we greatly appreciate for its commitment, and statements by the new york-based human rights watch, say that russian troops have little respect for human life, is a matter of alarm. when the representative of the chechen duma, aslambek ashlakanov, says that this shows that russia is also on the path to democracy, and we recognize that 80% of the aid russia provides for chechnya does not reach the people at all, then this should alarm us. when mary robinson, the un high commissioner for human rights, says that the economic, social and cultural situation in chechnya is bad, despite some progress we are seeing, then we must be alarmed. these are descriptions of situations by organizations and individuals who know the situation better than we do. but we as the european parliament have an obligation to raise these massive human rights violations in russia and thus in europe, in chechnya, as long as they are on the agenda. we therefore call for a ceasefire and a political solution. we demand that those russian soldiers who have no respect for the lives of civilians, who despise human dignity and human life, not only be criticized for it by political statements in moscow, but also really be brought to justice and sentenced, otherwise this violation of human rights will continue. (applause from the centre) we also call on russia to open chechnya to more observers than it has so far and to cooperate with the european union organisations. the president of the council and the commissioner have all made this point, and we are all on the same page. we as the european parliament should also call on our delegation, together with the corresponding duma delegation, and, as it were, decide as parliament, to deal with chechnya constantly and concretely in an orderly manner. we should send a delegation of the european parliament to chechnya and the region soon, as we decided on 16 march. i would also welcome it if you, commissioner, would go there personally to speak to the people concerned. (applause from the centre) finally, we need close coordination with lord judd of the council of europe, who is very concerned about this problem, and a political solution in general. let me conclude by saying that i have visited all the republics of the former soviet union and i have been to tatarstan. tatarstan, with its capital kazan, has a great deal of autonomy - yes, the greatest autonomy in the russian federation. why is it not possible to do something similar in chechnya? the representatives of chechnya who were here two months ago looked hopeless, they were depressed, and you can feel their anxiety and hopelessness. we, as the european parliament, have a duty to give hope to the people who want to live peacefully in chechnya - in an autonomous state but within the russian federation - and to act as an advocate of human rights on our continent and in the world, and thus in chechnya. (applause from the centre)
mr president, i agree with mr cashman. for eight years, the russian military has been waging war against the civilian population in chechnya. this is the reality we must not turn a blind eye to. i would therefore ask you, mr president-in-office, whether you have also presented the list of measures you have just presented to us to foreign minister ivanov in the trilogue and explained them in the same way as you have done here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. was this really the main point of the agenda or was it just a marginal remark? the fact is, it hasn't worked so far. i have the impression that this has not been explained to the russian side with the seriousness with which you have just presented it here! we are therefore guilty of these crimes. we know that people are being abducted, killed and mistreated in chechnya every day. (applause from the centre) and we know that chechens are called black in russia - a russian slur that declares these people to be second-class people. our silence and disregard for the daily physical abuse and mistreatment of civilians makes us untrustworthy to the world, in terms of standing up for human rights in many places. that is why it is important that we do not believe the claims of president putin, which do not correspond to reality and which he repeated yesterday in weimar, that the population must be protected from bandits and that the rule of law must be restored. this has nothing to do with the reality of the country. we must ensure that there is an international monitoring that monitors the human rights violations by the army there. i certainly support all the calls to invite president putin and mr mashadov to strasbourg in september, so that dialogue can finally begin and the guns can be silenced and the spiral of violence in this region can be broken. (applause from the centre)
mr president, while chancellor schröder and president putin are sitting together in weimar today, doing business as if nothing had happened, a genocide is taking place in the shadows in chechnya. i really want to speak of genocide, because that is what has happened in chechnya in recent years: a fifth of the population has been displaced, tens of thousands have been systematically murdered, and the killing is not going to stop! these are not individual human rights violations or attacks. this is done systematically. it started with one of the bloodiest campaigns, if not the bloodiest campaign in human history, namely the campaign that mr putin has waged by unleashing this chechen war. it wasn't about fighting terrorism. it was a question of sweeping away a democratic regime - albeit a very flawed one - elected under the supervision of the osce and setting up its own mayors in the region. i think it's a little grotesque that we're asking these mayors to investigate their own misdeeds. our task must be to internationalize this issue, to finally bring it into the light of the world public. i therefore thank hans-gert poettering and all those who have pushed this through against great resistance, that this parliament is dealing with this really serious violation of international law and human rights, this genocide, at the best time of the debate today, and is finally making it clear that it is not acceptable for a high-level eu delegation to go to the middle east and try to get through to mr arafat, but at the same time say that you cannot go to chechnya because it is not possible or would not be allowed. we cannot allow a partner like russia to systematically block an area like this, where such brutal human rights violations are taking place, to close it off to journalists, to close it off to political observers, to close it off to humanitarian organisations. we must not allow ourselves to be deceived any longer! that is why i support it: the commissioner must go there, the troika must go there, the parliamentary delegation must go there! we are all ready to join this. i must make it quite clear that we must also take the opportunity to discuss the situation in chechnya in september with the council of europe and the elected head of the chechen government, who unfortunately is not mentioned in the resolution, and to work towards a political solution. we have to remember one thing: courageous journalists, such as thomas avenarius of the süddeutsche zeitung or his colleague from the frankfurt rundschau, have made their way there at the risk of their lives. you have personally documented five systematic terrorist acts involving numerous murders in five chechen towns around 4 march alone. it is russian human rights activists, like the organization memorial, who have gone there at the risk of their lives and documented the existence of death squads set up by russian military intelligence in chechnya. these are facts we must finally take into account! we have cases of places that were purged 33 times, another place 27 times, each time killing about a seventh of the population. civilians, pregnant women were pulled out of minibuses and shot. this is not a fight against terrorism. alleged terrorists were shot in slippers. i must make it clear that there is a systematic disinformation of the public here, if you give the impression that this is only a somewhat disproportionate fight against terrorism, except that this is not fighting terrorism, but at best creating terrorists, and i must say with olivier dupuis that there is not the slightest evidence to date that there is really chechen terrorism on a large scale. the attacks in russia, even the respected neue zürich zeitung has made it clear that there is not the slightest indication that they were chechens, and the neue zürich zeitung believes that these are rather dubious backgrounds with very different plotters. this must be said openly in this parliament: we have a long tradition of many clear statements on the chechen issue. we have put ourselves at the forefront of those who want to ensure that light is finally shed on this policy, which aims at the systematic oppression of a people for the sake of oil interests, for the sake of raw materials. this is a colonial war at the beginning of the 21st century and nothing else! we have every right to oppose this colonial war. we have a privileged partnership with russia. we are in the osce together. we are in the council of europe together. we have the instruments to do something, but we must finally use them and we can no longer fall asleep in front of us and pretend that these are individual attacks. the few officers who have already been tried or charged, like the officer who raped and murdered a young woman in 2000, a colonel, are still not convicted. this is all propaganda. there's not the slightest trace of these crimes. we can't let this go on any longer! we must speak clearly with an important partner, russia, because we take it seriously! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i respect the rapporteur's efforts. the economic interests of the union continue to be the primary consideration in the assessment of its relations with the people's republic of china. this is understandable, since a market of some 1.3 billion people holds out almost inexhaustible profits for the companies and banks that operate on it. the accession of china to the wto will further improve the conditions for the recovery of capital. this will also increase competition between pacific economic powers such as japan and taiwan, and between the us and the eu and its member states. everyone wants to get the biggest piece of the big pie. this is accompanied by constant political pressure on china to respect human rights more. the fact that china is seeking to complement its long-running economic reforms with federal democratic structures, social security systems and economic governance mechanisms is overlooked or underestimated. china is continuing this process by joining the wto. but no one should be under the illusion that the separation of state and economy will solve china's enormous social problems. the much-vaunted market of global capitalism is - like it or not - amoral and incapable of realizing basic values such as social justice and solidarity. it is and remains the state that is required here. there is no second government in the world that is responsible for 1.3 billion people. it is good and right to seek a comprehensive dialogue with china, but no one should put pressure on anyone and look only at their own interests. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. dialogue is only meaningful and effective if consensus is sought in the mutual interest. the same applies to the death penalty. the demands for their abolition are right, but they should be made no less forcefully against the united states. relations with china are of greater political and strategic importance than ever before. the one-dimensional development currently taking place on china's doorstep with the strategic intentions of the united states is not very helpful. instability would be the result. the eu is challenged to counter unilateral power-seeking, also and especially in the process of enlargement, and to preserve stability through balanced relations with china, or to establish and deepen them where necessary.
mr president, i can understand the rapporteur's question very well. on the other hand, it is simply a matter of a different legal assessment of the relevance of the financial regulation. we believe that our proposal is clearer on this point. it is not really important which of the two proposals is accepted. that is why i ask that the liberal amendment be voted on first and then ours. we believe that we have a somewhat clearer proposal including the oral amendment. but it doesn't start a war on one side or the other, depending on what is assumed.
chairman of the committee on budgetary control. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have postponed the vote on this report from yesterday to today because we were waiting for the council to give us an official reply. the reason for this was given on monday by the chairman of the pse group, mr baron crespo. we followed it. but we still have no official response. the council's unofficial response, which i have received today, even if only in an unofficial translation, is what i have in my capacity as chairman of the committee. i think that it does not do justice to the council or to the committee, which has not had the opportunity to deal with this matter, if we now take up the discharge and decide whether to accept it or not, or to postpone it. i think it is reasonable to wait calmly and with reflection and also in discussions with the council on this problem for next year's discharge, for 2001, when budget lines have already been drawn up for security and foreign and internal policy. i therefore ask that these matters be dealt with in a clear and transparent procedure in the committee responsible so that we can then also make a well-founded judgment. i therefore ask our rapporteur and the pse group to refrain from this very rapid, perhaps too rapid procedure.
mr president, i would like to oppose the motion because i think mrs theato has given a contradictory explanation. the commission has said that it would like to have the report returned because it wants to relieve the council of its responsibilities in the near future. but it is well known in this house that there are strong reservations in your group, in particular, about doing that at all. at the same time, mrs morgan has put forward a proposal which would take a lot of pressure and problems out of this very question and solve this problem elegantly. i would also point out that we have to take decisions on a whole host of other institutions, so i think we should not put ourselves in the position of having to resort to this contradictory reasoning and lose a chance to solve this problem today in an elegant way. the questions raised by mrs theato will be dealt with next year. (applause from the centre)
mr president, our group asked on monday that we vote on this resolution tomorrow because we could then have referred to the madrid meeting. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) yes, now listen to me! we're exchanging arguments, and we're taking each other seriously. you are fighting for human rights, so listen to the chairman of the epp/ed group! (applause from the right) it was our proposal that we vote tomorrow so that we could have reacted to the madrid meeting. we should have had more time to agree on the matter, because it is not very useful to vote in a divided way on the middle east. the argument put forward against us is that we as the european parliament must send a very strong signal to madrid. the madrid meeting has been concluded with regard to the middle east, and even if this resolution is adopted by a majority, there will be no further signals from the european parliament as to the outcome of madrid. your reason for doing this today is lost. i ask you to at least take note of that! (applause from the right) to the point. i am very sorry to inform you that our group cannot support the joint motion for a resolution. we have had a very long and very serious debate, as is very rare, and political, moral and historical issues have been raised. we are very critical of the policies of israeli prime minister sharon. but it should also have been said - as this resolution is now being put to the vote - that for example the president of the palestinian authority, arafat, should address the palestinians in arabic, saying that the terror of the suicide bombers must be stopped! (applause from the right) i am simply telling you how we have discussed it, and we take your arguments seriously, and when it comes to moral and political questions, we demand the same for our group. but i would also like to ask the commission, mr nielson, if you would listen to me, commissioner, we also have questions about the use of the funds which the european union is making available for the palestinian territories. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. (applause from the right) i have never been convinced by shouting loudly as an argument, and if these are the new arguments of the left in the european parliament, they will not be convincing to our group. (applause from the right) so, all in all, the vast majority of our group will not be voting for this, as we feel, unbalanced resolution. but there are also colleagues who have told me that they will vote for this resolution out of their own conscience, and we respect that. we wish the secretary of state of the united states, mr powell, who is now travelling to palestine, every success. we hope that he will not only see sharon, but that he will also see arafat, and that this will be a contribution to the peace solution in the middle east. our group joins the american foreign minister in wishing him well for peace in the middle east! (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i voted against the discharge to the commission for the 2000 budget. the following reasons were decisive for me: the commission has not yet paid out eur 11.6 billion, or 14% of the total budget. i think that is a clear sign of mismanagement in the commission and it is also a trend, because the figures have been rising since 1999. 20% of the appropriations were not properly used, which is twice as much as in the previous year. the court of auditors has refused to issue a statement of assurance for the seventh time in succession. the commission has been aware of new allegations in the so-called van buitenen report since august 2000, but they have not been worked out and submitted to parliament. my report on the leonardo grant programme is blocked by this. in the debate yesterday, mrs schreyer, as the commissioner responsible, showed a complete lack of awareness of the commission's shortcomings, and on the contrary - as we are all well aware - she shifted the responsibility for improper use of funds to the member states. the ec treaty, however, clearly states that the commission has a responsibility. mr kinnock, as the commissioner responsible for internal reform, does talk a lot about reform. measurable progress has not yet been made in the reform process. the court of auditors has also found this to be the case. the commission has for the first time made mr prodi solely responsible for the implementation of the 2000 budget. it can no longer invoke the failings of its predecessors. i therefore voted against this discharge decision, as i have done in the past two years.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my group abstained today in the vote on discharge to parliament's budget. this was mainly due to the following reasons: like the authors of the report and the amendments, we too believe that there must be or be clarity, transparency and regularity, particularly as regards the position and the responsibilities of the political groups in parliament. we believe that this cannot be done in the context of a single discharge decision, but requires a thorough discussion and negotiation. the same applies to the legal status and protection of assistants.
in writing. - and the resolution adopted by parliament today is moving in the right direction. it is warmly welcomed by all of us, because there is no reasonable alternative to a political solution to the problem, and the current warlike response of the sharon government to the terrorist attacks, which devalue human life, by palestinian fanatics is no longer acceptable. the military escalation by israel, as the resolution expressly states, is in breach of international law and human rights. it does not contribute in any way to ending terrorism, but it is directed against the palestinian civilian population and destroys the infrastructure of palestine. we strongly support the demand made by the european parliament for the immediate implementation of un security council resolutions 1397, 1402 and 1403, in particular the immediate withdrawal of the israeli army from the palestinian territories, and the condemnation of the suicide terror attacks against israel. it is totally unacceptable that arafat, a democratically elected president, should be placed under house arrest. we also warmly welcome the fact that the european parliament has agreed to the arms embargo against palestine and israel and call on the council and the commission to consider the possibility of temporarily lifting the association agreement between israel and the european union. it is also important that the european parliament calls for free access for the media in the occupied territories and declares its full support for israeli, palestinian and international organisations actively working to restore peace in the middle east. we support the european parliament's decision to condemn the countless anti-semitic attacks in europe on synagogues, jewish schools and cemeteries. (parliament adopted the minutes) )
the commission has already done so. i am not quite as sure as my predecessor that wto membership will automatically lead to political change in china, but i will come back to that in a moment. i think it was good that the people's republic of china joined the wto. it has not been easy for them, because it will mean major internal restructuring processes for china, but i believe it is urgently necessary in china's interest that these restructuring processes begin now. i also believe that it is a good starting point for improved trade relations. i would like to ask the commission to monitor closely whether china is also fulfilling the commitments it has made when it joined the wto. in recent years, china's behaviour has not been very encouraging, following commitments such as the opening up of the insurance market. promises were made, but attempts were made to undermine them. i hope that china will really accept the consequences positively, and it would be interesting if the commissioner could comment on how the commission will monitor this. as far as the political dialogue is concerned, my colleagues have all referred to the question of human rights. these are universal human rights, not european human rights that we want to impose on china, but universally recognized human rights that we demand, and that includes the rights of minorities, whether religious or cultural. my colleagues have already spoken about tibet. i would like to take another example, namely the persecution of the unofficial catholic church in china, which has to live underground because the government does not recognize the catholic church, which feels itself bound to the vatican. this is not acceptable. as far as taiwan is concerned, i hope that the people's republic of china will open up the political dialogue without preconditions. only such a political dialogue can lead to reunification, but only if it is based on democracy, the rule of law and human rights. we in parliament should help to establish contact between the two countries. we should also have contacts with the representatives of the people's republic of china and taiwan. i hope, commissioner, that the commission will soon open an office in taipei, so that the commission, too, can support the political dialogue between the two countries with its representations in beijing and taipei.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the euro as a currency in the euro area. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the rapporteur has mentioned that it was not easy to draw up an opinion for parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i would like to stress two points which are relevant to the procedure. i see the danger that the process of open coordination is being conducted by officials and so-called experts without public discussion. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training. we must therefore be involved in this matter as representatives of the interests of the people, as members of the european parliament. i repeat here the call for an interinstitutional agreement on the open method of coordination. finally, i repeat to the commission and the member states: we must make real progress on the problems facing the people of europe. this applies, for example, to pensions. we need a rapid revision of regulation 1408/71 on the coordination of insurance systems. we need simple rules on the transferability of occupational pensions. we need solutions to the taxation of occupational pensions, and this cannot be based on open coordination alone, but must involve the european parliament as the representative of the interests of the european people. (applause from the centre)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the report by mr fatuzzo paints a stark picture of the extremely problematic situation of pension provision in all the member states of the european union, in particular the problems already existing and certain to become even more acute in the future in the financing of national pension and other social security systems. it is absolutely clear that the eu is called upon to take action in this area and to contribute to the possible solution of the problems, but within the framework and in strict compliance with the legal bases contained in the ec treaty. the structure of social security systems varies widely across the eu member states. they have evolved historically like few other areas of law and therefore escape any harmonisation at european level. my criticism is directed against the method of so-called open coordination of pensions introduced by the council. this method is welcomed in the fatuzzo report. this procedure leads to the european union assuming national legislative competence in a cold manner, so to speak, without a legal basis laid down by the treaty. council decisions subject member states to increasingly narrow and detailed requirements, creating a legal obligation and binding effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are in favour of a clear division of legislative powers between the union and the member states, because only in this way can we ensure clarity and transparency, in short legal clarity for the citizens of europe. the most fatal side effect of so-called open coordination is that the only institution with democratic legitimacy in the european union, namely the parliament, is completely excluded. the council has announced that it will extend open coordination to other very sensitive areas such as health care and care for the elderly. it is therefore high time that parliament showed the council the limits of its powers and took a stand, above all to safeguard its own interests. the csu group in the european people's party will not agree to the fatuzzo report because of serious concerns about open coordination. i would like to see a broad debate on this subject in parliament in the future, particularly with regard to the legislative work of the convention.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am not sure that this is the case. i thank you, mr damião, for this very balanced report. i think it was not very easy to develop a concept for the future, given the many different national regulations in the eu, which your report, dear elisa, has done. asbestos is one of the most dangerous substances, and the most harmful types are now banned in almost all countries of the world. however, we do occasionally have difficulties, yes, even trivialization, also worldwide, for example in the wto with canada at the moment. a ban on the use and marketing of all types of asbestos will be introduced in europe from 2005. however, we consider your initiative for reform to be necessary, because in certain specific points and aspects this reform was overdue. i therefore do not understand the position of the epp group, represented by mr pérez álvarez. it is of course sensible to include in the protection not only the workers but also the users and residents. we know of all the schools, sports grounds and even european union buildings which have had to be closed because of asbestos contamination and then have been laboriously and costly renovated. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the use of asbestos. i think that is also necessary. europe should be a model in the development and use of alternative materials. this is the future, not the export of asbestos to the other world!
the council has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank you for this clarification and i really want to ask you to reassure us that the council will make it clear to the member states that it cannot be accepted when certain ideological groups try to sell to the member states things as an acquis communautaire which are not part of it. the impression is growing in the member states that the applicant countries are being given rules on the family, abortion and bioethics, claiming that they are part of the acquis communautaire. i would ask you to confirm clearly to all the candidate countries that these subjects are not part of the acquis communautaire.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank mrs ayuso very much for her work. the common organization of the market in agricultural alcohol was voted down in the committee on agriculture. we are convinced that the commission should withdraw and revise this proposal. the spanish presidency would like to complete the subject during its presidency. i think that this will not be possible, because the european parliament will not be able to deliver an opinion to the council of agriculture ministers in time. the three key questions are, first, the titles of the acts. is there a common organization of the market or a simple regulation? secondly, to what extent is synthetic alcohol involved? thirdly, is a provision on state aid necessary? these questions are not settled at the present stage of the discussions between parliament and the commission. if the commission were to abandon its orthodox position on the question of the common organization of the market, it could certainly agree to a purely statistical monitoring of synthetic alcohol in the regulation. this would be possible without extending the legal base. i am counting on the council of ministers to reach a qualified majority for the adoption of a light regulation, as was the original task. i am still very sceptical about the question of the aid rules. there are a lot of open questions here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to ask the commission: please do not destroy a system that is working without any reason.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i should like to thank mrs ayuso gonzález, who has put the greatest possible effort into this report, even though we are only voting on one amendment. with mrs ayuso, colleagues in the committee on agriculture and rural development have tried across the political spectrum to give the commission proposal a balanced direction. we believe that a balanced approach means that, in addition to agricultural alcohol, which accounts for only a fraction of the total alcohol market, synthetic alcohol must also be the subject of a possible common organization of the market, since both types of alcohol are in direct competition with each other. this claim was rejected. secondly, there must be exceptions to existing schemes in member states which provide for state support for the production of agricultural alcohol, in order to take account of aspects of landscape and environmental protection, biodiversity and the preservation of small-scale farming structures. i am speaking specifically of the german agricultural alcohol monopoly, which has so far effectively fulfilled the functions just mentioned. with little state aid, which is in no way relevant to the internal market in the european context, cultural landscapes with ecologically valuable orchards are preserved, especially in southern germany. these meadows are almost exclusively tended and maintained by small farmers. the result, ladies and gentlemen, of this policy, which has been right up to now, can be seen even now on the steepest hillsides of the black forest, which are now in bloom. this small compensation for landscaping is almost a second pillar idea, which is widely considered to be strengthened. but this too was not taken into account. the european parliament is therefore right in my view to reject the present commission proposal, which also largely ignores the council's original mandate for a light framework. now the ball is back in play. i am hopeful of the informal meeting of agriculture ministers at the end of april, and of mrs künast in particular. it would be desirable for the council to take up parliament's proposal, which i expect will be adopted tomorrow.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am very pleased that the committee on agriculture and rural development has given a favourable opinion on the report by mrs ayuso gonzález. the rejection of the commission's proposal for a common organization of the market in agricultural alcohol is the only reasonable answer that the committee could give. i would like to take this opportunity to explain briefly why. the commission was not given the task of creating a new market order and thereby interfering with a healthy and intact market. the commission has nevertheless worked very hard to develop a proposal which, at first sight, is not entirely satisfactory. this is a complete disregard for synthetic alcohol, which now accounts for 50% of eu consumption and is essential in the important sectors of the cosmetic, pharmaceutical and chemical industries. this risks distorting competition to the detriment of the agricultural alcohol market. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a new regulation on the common organization of the market in fishery products. in particular, given that many of the applicant countries produce very large quantities of agricultural alcohol, it is not possible to introduce a system shortly before the accession of these countries which does not take account of local conditions and therefore does not adequately prepare the existing market for this. another important criticism is that the commission proposal seems to completely ignore the cultural and economic importance of agro-alcohol. the agricultural alcohol is produced as a natural product in small and medium-sized farms, mainly in rural areas, and contributes significantly to the preservation of traditional cultural landscapes. mrs jeggle has pointed this out. the production is also of great ecological importance and the by-products are even used as animal feed for agriculture. the rural area, characterised by meadows of fruit, would be faced with a major crisis in the implementation of the commission's plans. it is easy to see that not only would the medium-sized regions suffer, but that this would also be accompanied by a massive loss of jobs. the commission cannot and must not ignore this, and i cannot understand why it is so negligent about the negative consequences for agriculture and, in particular, for small and mediumsized enterprises. the commission's present paper is therefore, in my view, an unsuitable approach to shaping the alcohol market. the new regulation must take account of all types of alcohol. there can and must be no partial solutions which in turn create imbalances. it is also appropriate not to provide for a transitional period for existing national aid schemes but to integrate them in a meaningful way into an overall approach.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to focus on the real task we have to perform here as a european institution - but not without taking into account the requirements that must also be imposed on the member states. i think that the current development of media offerings, which are no longer limited to traditional television, nor to the internet, but include many other offerings, will increase in the age of digitization, and therefore it is right and necessary that we think about the legal design of control and youth protection and also put in place means to deal with it. the legal framework will undoubtedly have to be adapted to this new development. this applies to the european level as well as to the national level. i believe that self-monitoring systems, and i speak for the group, are an important addition to a legal framework. we cannot do without a legal standard. this is a pressing need. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the programme is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. in other words, we cannot avoid responsibility for the supplier and responsibility for the programme. that's the basic premise. how this is implemented, there can be many ways, and there are many ways. the member states have very different regulations which ultimately correspond to the traditional media systems and it is not a question of eliminating all of them. i stress that self-monitoring devices as a supplement are indispensable. technical systems may also be indispensable, but they cannot replace responsibility either. we also know that many children and young people, especially in an age when adults have not learned to play the piano of new technological possibilities, are superior to their parents in this respect. that's going to change in the long run, but today it's the same, and we all know that kids can be very tricky when it comes to, for example, cracking something. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's already obsolete in one region, if it's broadcast via satellite, through the different time zones. so this can also be a very limited method. i am very pleased that this report has taken up my group's call for the action plan on the safe use of the internet, which was due to expire at the end of the year, to be continued and extended. i think this is absolutely necessary. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the media are not used in the same way as the media. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to begin by thanking mr beazley in particular for this report, because i think it sums up the views of parliament in a very constructive way. you can see that by the fact that we unanimously adopted this report in committee and that there are no amendments to this report in parliament today, and that on a subject which raises a great many problems and questions. so thank you very much. this is a very good basis for our further work. this further work is particularly important because, in the future, the convergence of the media - television, computers, the internet - will require us to find new ways of ensuring that young people are protected and that human dignity is protected. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. they are in urgent need of support from the member states. i would like to mention here again the three points which i consider to be the most important. first, we need new, more advanced models of self-regulation in which industry and responsible governments can work together. the model of correlated self-control has been developed for this purpose. we need to develop that. secondly, we do not need harmonised standards throughout europe, but we do need minimum standards throughout europe, particularly for video games and the internet, in order to really achieve youth protection. and third, media education not just for the kids, but for the parents. the council is needed for all these tasks, and i appeal to it to cooperate here.
- mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank mrs de sarnez, on behalf of our group, for her excellent report. i would like to point out that this europe of knowledge, which we are now using as a common expression, must be reflected at international level. this is an important challenge, and the declarations of lisbon, barcelona and also what was adopted in bologna and prague are important, but if they only lead to the conclusion that everything is done in so-called open coordination around parliament, then we simply cannot agree to that. we agree on the substance, but we want to be involved. the challenges are great. as i said, we must respond, and i think we must, as madame de sarnez has already said, pay more attention to making our education more competitive, more attractive. we need something in the european union, something like a community of a great knowledge society, to which we can really refer. for that, we need more mobility. as mrs de sarnez has already said, the mobility and quality of our education are the most important things, and of course we must do something about it. we also need to ensure that more languages are taught and learned in universities. we need to make sure there are more joint degrees. the example of a german-french university in germany, where joint degrees can be obtained, could be a model for many other european universities. we should be measured by how far we go. the university label proposed by mrs de sarnez is excellent, and that is why we must also work to make it a reality. we must also ensure that, more quickly than before, diplomas and degrees are finally recognised. we've been saying that for as long as i can remember, and it's really going at a snail's pace. we are doing harm to our young people, and i think this is a challenge to all of us that we should take up.
in writing. - (de) i voted in favour of the report by the committee on agriculture and rural development and therefore against the commission's present proposal, because it goes far beyond the prerogatives given to the commission by the council of agriculture ministers in july 2000. instead of presenting a simple framework regulation on the surveillance of the european alcohol market and trade flows, the commission's proposal actually envisages the creation of a new common market organisation. this implies, inter alia, that after its entry into force, proven national regulations pursuing important agricultural and social policy objectives such as the management of the growing landscape and the preservation of native fruit crops with scattered trees and supporting small agricultural distillers will have to be abolished because of non-compliance with the ec treaty competition rules, although they are so far in conformity with the ec treaty and the rules of the common market in force, according to the case law of the ecj. the creation of a new cap should also be rejected at a time when there is general discussion about reforming the common agricultural policy in europe, leaving aside market organizations and moving towards a multifunctional solution in the future, and at a time when we are just about to review agenda 2000. i therefore ask the commission to withdraw its proposal on the creation of a common organisation of the market in agricultural alcohol and to submit a new proposal, which will be strictly confined to the council's mandate of july 2000.
in writing. - (de) i have just voted in favour of the report by our colleague, mr graça moura, entitled 'eu strategy towards china' and i have also supported a large number of amendments. thousands of nuns and monks continue to be persecuted, imprisoned, and mistreated. tibet is denied its cultural and religious autonomy. chinese are being systematically installed in order to push tibetans further and further into their own country and make them a minority. the report rightly echoes the european parliament's repeated demand for the appointment of an eu special envoy for tibet. the report also recalls the resolution adopted two years ago, in which the ep called on eu member states to recognise the tibetan government in exile within three years if the situation in tibet stagnated or worsened. there is no alternative to a peaceful solution: negotiations between the chinese government and the dalai lama - without any preconditions. as chairman of the tibet intergroup, i see the full autonomy of tibet as a central objective. such a bilateral solution should also benefit the chinese, who are seeking to improve their image on the international stage. the starting point in this regard is the dalai lama's five-point plan and his speech to our assembly on 24 october 2001. i think the eu's attitude is absolutely regrettable. it did not put china's human rights violations on the agenda in geneva and preferred to deal with the subject in the framework of the eu-china dialogue - and therefore behind closed doors.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. i am telling you the truth: a serious political crisis is brewing in moldova. i do not share the view of the rapporteur of the council of europe that there are still opportunities for a solution to this political crisis which can be found by the government itself. i suspect that the ruling parties feel like winners just after the vote on the lifting of the immunity of two opposition politicians, which i consider illegal, and that they do not understand that three months of mass demonstrations mean that they have been deprived of trust and that they themselves are no longer able to lead the country out of the crisis at this point. i fear that the crisis in this impoverished country will soon escalate and become unmanageable. i therefore think it is necessary for the council and the commission to act now and not wait until the child has fallen back into the well. here's what i think needs to happen. a troika must be formed between the eu, the osce and the council of europe, which will be sent on a mission to the country at short notice. this mission must agree with the government on the steps to be taken to resolve the crisis. we must also discuss sanctions so that the government does not take these steps half-heartedly. the necessary steps include, in my view, impunity for past and future peaceful protests, the withdrawal of the russian language and history teaching orders, the withdrawal of all measures which amount to media censorship and the safeguarding of the framework conditions for political and economic development.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in fact, about a dozen years ago, the national league for democracy won a landslide election victory in burma. but since then the will of the people - and indeed of all ethnic groups, it must be emphasized here - has been trampled underfoot. for a dozen years, an elected president has been detained, unpopular citizens have been thrown in jail, forced laborers have been abused, women have been mistreated and ethnic minorities have been harassed. the drug trade, human trafficking and small arms trafficking are commonplace. the international community has been unfortunately pushing for a return to democracy for a dozen years, but so far in vain. but it is nevertheless right and welcome that the eu troika is signalling a willingness to talk without, however, linking this to concessions. the efforts of the un special envoy to advance talks with the president-elect and the spdc and to explore a starting point for democratic change are to be particularly supported. the postponement of razali ismail's visit, scheduled for march, however, gives little cause for optimism. the people of that impoverished country are the ones who are suffering, and their lot in the democratic part of the world must not be overlooked. the euro-burma office, which is funded by the european union and operated in cooperation with the friedrich-ebert-stiftung, which has experience in development and democracy policy, also guarantees this. we hope that this will provide new impetus, which will help us to go a step further if we can keep our breath.
- mr president, i have to go. unfortunately, europe also has a long history of oppression of ethnic minorities and ethnic groups, of the expulsion and persecution of religious and religious communities, but this european union sees itself as overcoming this, as a beacon of human rights, and therefore we have, of course, the task of ensuring that the universal value of human rights is put into practice worldwide as a partner and not as a guardian. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are currently experiencing a vicious circle. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. for this we thank the cambodians, who themselves have had a great problem of displaced persons and refugees and who are poor and who are showing solidarity here - that too must be seen. but then, of course, the cambodians send people back to vietnam for all sorts of reasons, and they are persecuted and oppressed again, and there is a movement of refugees back to cambodia. it's a vicious circle. if we want to break this vicious circle which threatens the stability of the whole region, we must insist that cambodia first of all continue to comply with its international obligations, and perhaps even more so than before. secondly, and this is the main point, we must insist that vietnam finally respect and protect its ethnic minorities and ethnic groups as it should, that it does not implement settlement programmes to the detriment of minorities and that religious communities enjoy the appropriate protection. we stand up for the rights of all religious communities, without any discrimination. but just as muslims - and i welcome this - are fighting for the rights of muslims all over the world, we should also be fighting more for the rights of christian minorities all over the world, and not least because of this we have a great responsibility. (applause from the centre)
- i did not want to comment on this point, but on the rules of procedure and an appeal to the bureau and the conference of presidents concerning the economy of the sitting. mr president, on tuesday, because the agenda was so full, question time was cancelled, contrary to the treaty and the rules of procedure. on wednesday, yesterday, question time to the council was cut by 35 minutes because the agenda was so full. today we had a very relaxed agenda and finished at 5:36 p.m. i would like to ask for a better economy of session. we are no less numerous today than at the last meetings, when the thursday session lasted until 6.30 p.m. we are not less numerous than we were on friday, or perhaps we were, and we are not less numerous than we will be tomorrow on friday. i therefore ask that in future we make more intensive use of thursday afternoons than we have done so far and that we proceed according to the principle: those who leave are to blame! (applause from the centre)
commission. – i suspect that one of the less agreeable aspects of european civilisation is being debated outside! (laughter and loud applause)when in europe we occasionally give other people lectures about human rights and civil liberties, we should sometimes bear that in mind. (applause)i want to repeat that i am choosing these words with considerable care. our commitment to consolidate the palestinian authority and to reconstruction, will need to be integrated within a wider political process including sufficient guarantees from both parties in the conflict that our efforts will not be wasted or destroyed. you cannot rebuild the palestinian authority in a political vacuum. (applause) mr peres told us yesterday that he supported a flourishing and modern palestinian authority. some may think that israel has found a strange way to express that support in recent weeks. but i hope that mr peres speaks for the israeli government, and that we will see his expressed view reflected in israel’s attitude towards the aspiration to create a palestinian state, and israel’s actions in the palestinian territories. even if it is still too early to assess the full extent of damage that has been inflicted, it is clear that there is also going to be a need for major reconstruction and rehabilitation work. the assessment of the need, which has only just begun, is urgent. it is already clear, however, that even short term needs will run into hundreds of millions of dollars. i expect that tomorrow's meeting of the international donor community in oslo, the so-called ad hoc liaison committee, will help us to quantify the damages and begin to prepare a co-ordinated response by donors. i would just like to repeat what i have said already. to those who talk about marshall aid for the middle east, marshall aid for the palestinian territories, i say 'fine'. the important point about marshall aid, however, was that it began when the bombing had stopped. in my last point i would like to refer to full rehabilitation of palestinian structures: there is also the need to fill the administrative and security vacuum in the wake of the israeli withdrawal. the alternative is chaos and anarchy, which is not in anyone’s interest. i must repeat my grave concern about the destruction of the basic structures of the palestinian authority and military operations against arafat. this weakens the powers of palestinian authority to enforce the rule of law, to rein in terrorists and to avert suicide bombings. it plays into the hands of, and increases support among the palestinian population for extremist groups such as hamas. the fight against terrorism cannot be used as a justification for the destruction of basic infrastructure of the palestinian authority. (applause)i am also very concerned at the breakdown of general law and order. we have seen horrible events such as lynchings in the last few days. this must stop. it is only likely to stop, however, when palestinians regain control in their areas. israeli military actions have not just targeted the security apparatus of the palestinian authority, they have systematically inflicted damage on civil infrastructure which has no security role whatsoever. what is the security objective of destroying the ministries of education, finance, agriculture, the land registry? (applause)why destroy the central statistics bureau, or the palestinian legislative council? this must be of great concern to the members of this house. palestinians will have to rebuild large parts of their administration without which daily life cannot function in an orderly fashion. the commission is committed to supporting and rebuilding these structures. but our resources are already stretched to the limits. once the needs assessment is done, we will come back to parliament to inform you of the financial implications and to ask for your help in providing an appropriate response from the european union. but, i repeat, you will have to ask us at that moment what the political context is in which we are seeking to rebuild what has been torn down. i have lost count of the number of debates that i have taken part in on the middle east over the last two and a half years. it is fair to say that in each debate the news has been grimmer then in the preceding debate. i just pray that one day i take part in a debate when things are getting better. (sustained applause)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the applause for commissioner patten just now has made it clear that a situation, however dramatic and seemingly hopeless, must never lead us to stop talking to each other. because if we stop talking to each other, then only the guns will talk. it is important that this debate on the mediterranean dialogue takes place here today. i would like to express my sincere thanks to the spanish presidency for its commitment. the mediterranean dialogue has probably never been more necessary than it is today, despite the shocking events in the middle east. because we are in great danger today of a real clash of civilizations. this clash will come about when we first start to build walls between cultures in our own minds. that is why it must be our task, in these days and in the future, to have this dialogue of cultures. it must be at the very beginning! i am shocked to hear that on the one hand this foundation for dialogue between cultures is proposed, which we welcome, but on the other hand this one million euro, which is obviously not a very large sum, may not be made available. if we sign documents and those documents no longer have any value when we leave the conference, then these conferences have no meaning! i therefore ask the spanish presidency and the commission to ensure that the necessary funds are also made available so that we can have this dialogue. (applause from the centre) we are looking mainly to the east in these weeks and months in anticipation of the enlargement of the european union. but it is important that we look to the south, because the dangers there are probably much greater than the problems we have in eastern europe. if it is true that the distance from the capital of algeria, algiers, to paris is less than the distance from paris to warsaw, then this must also make it clear to us geographically that the mediterranean, that north africa, that the middle east is of the greatest importance to us europeans. we are advocating that we have a genuine political strategic partnership with the mediterranean, with the countries of north africa, with the middle east, that we have an economic and financial partnership and that we have a social and cultural partnership. the fight against terrorism is of course important, and we are all for it. but we must not limit our dialogue with the arab and islamic world to the fight against terrorism, but it must be a dialogue that covers all political, economic, financial and cultural issues. we must therefore do a great deal more than we have done in the past. (applause from the centre) the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the council of ministers. we asked for it. but we would be failing our responsibility as europeans, as the european parliament, if we thought that our tasks were already fulfilled by the creation of such an institution. no, it has to be about us implementing the solemn declarations. i have visited many countries in the arab world, after having visited israel several times already, and i have the impression that these countries will only be able to live in security, freedom and democracy if we really manage to create jobs there. the commissioner has spoken of the need for 40 million jobs in the mediterranean. if this does not happen, young people will continue to board boats, and then, according to estimates, 7,000 people will die every year in the mediterranean from morocco alone, trying to reach spain or portugal. that is why development in these countries must succeed. we must above all help to privatise the economy, so that smes have a chance to create jobs. the illiteracy in the north african countries must be eliminated, because education is one of the most important prerequisites for human development and, above all, for the realization of human rights. the middle east: we have also had very intensive discussions in our group on these questions, because it is a serious and difficult matter. but first of all we say: stop the policy of eye for eye, tooth for tooth! if this continues, there will never be peace in the middle east! that's why it's important that the israeli troops withdraw now. but at the same time we say: it is a crime to persuade young people to put self-destructing devices around their bodies so that they can then use them to kill other people! that is why we must put demands on both sides, on israel and the palestinians in equal measure. we must also remember that our american friends cannot achieve peace on their own. the americans will of course have to make an important contribution, but for various reasons the palestinians have more confidence in us europeans than in our american friends. we have to take the necessary steps to ensure that the palestinians are not left behind. thank god there are also very credible representatives of israel. we spoke yesterday at the conference of presidents with the president of the knesset, abraham burg, and i must tell you that this conversation has given me hope again, because there are also political figures in israel who are putting reconciliation rather than conflict and military action in the foreground. we call on the parties concerned, the palestinians, the israelis and the international community, to intensify our efforts to bring about peace in the middle east, so that we europeans can also have a good future with the mediterranean countries and so that israel and palestine can live within secure borders. this alone serves human rights in the middle east! (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner! i also believe that the valencian ministerial meeting was a success and that we are gradually becoming aware of the importance of the mediterranean for all of us, not only for the countries of the european union which are directly adjacent to the mediterranean but also for those countries which are further away. the mediterranean is important, enlargement is important, and this is of common interest to us all. we see that if there is no serious and peaceful development in the mediterranean, it will burn on all our doorsteps. the attack on tourists in djerba shows how close this fire has come to our doorstep. it is therefore important that this dialogue be conducted on the basis of equality. this is also a cultural dialogue which politics cannot achieve alone. the creation of an economic, social and political perspective for the people of north africa is of great importance to us because it can be the starting point for a stable and future democratic development in this region. but that is why it is so important that aid is provided quickly, unbureaucratically and effectively. i know that commissioner patten has made a great effort in recent years to improve this area, but we are still in a situation where money is spent, formal decisions are taken, but their effectiveness is still to be desired. the implementation is not enough because we have difficulties both on our side and with the bureaucracy in the countries concerned, and that has to change. there will be no success in the whole mediterranean area unless there is a solution to the middle east conflict, because it keeps stirring up emotions and makes it difficult to solve the mediterranean problem as a whole. i find the current state of travel diplomacy ridiculous at times. on even weeks, powell is driving, and on odd weeks, solana is driving. what if, mr president-in-office, the council decided not to send the next delegation to jerusalem but to washington, to force a joint delegation to go to jerusalem and ramallah, together with the russians and the united nations? i think that makes the real difference. the commissioner has spoken of joint efforts, and that is precisely what needs to be made clear in this question. i know there are great diplomatic reservations on one side or the other, but i think we have to make sure that only a joint effort with the arab states that are willing to do something can force an end to the violence by saying: the end of the flagpole has been reached! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must ensure that all our neighbours recognise both the israeli and the palestinian states. this is an important prerequisite for further development. we need a solution to the refugee problem in particular, so that the people there have a new perspective and the refugee camps do not become a constant source of new terror. it's time to end it. it is not possible to send them to israel to achieve a change within israel in this way, but the arabs must be willing to offer a perspective to the palestinian refugees in their countries. i think that we should address the le pen people, but also ourselves, when we have different views, with a quote from voltaire: 'your opinion is the exact opposite of mine, but i will give my life for you to be able to say that!' (applause)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the european union has once again demonstrated its strong position on the middle east conflict in a very impressive way, and i would like to make a few comments on this. i want to send forward that i feel connected to israel, both to the people of israel and to the state. i would like to ask my israeli friends in advance: what have you achieved now that you are likely to withdraw your tanks from the palestinian territories shortly after killing many palestinians, suspected assassins, murderers and potential murderers, after destroying many homes and schools and the structure of the palestinian authority? has this brought you one millimeter closer to peace and security? or is it not rather to be feared that your actions have re-born a thousandfold hatred that will explode at the next opportunity, in the middle east or possibly here too? but i also want to ask ourselves: have we really done enough to be able to make all these self-righteous demands on israel that are being made here? have those who have been in janin been to jaffa to visit the families who lost loved ones in the most cruel way in a bombing at passover, where everything was reduced to blood and shrapnel? isn't it true that israel has been a victim of palestinian terror for many years, long before sharon had the madness to march provocatively over the temple mount? is it enough what we have done on such occasions, what we always do on such occasions, to pass an urgent resolution condemning terrorism, knowing full well that no palestinian will adhere to it for even a second? so, have we done enough in this situation? is it not true that arafat was never willing and probably not able to stop terror? how do we justify the fact that we are providing the palestinian authority with considerable sums of money every month? commissioner schreyer, do you know what happens to this money? have you ever tested this? can you prove that to parliament? what has the commission said about the documentation which supports the reasonable suspicion that arafat himself is involved in the financing of terrorism? a major newspaper in germany last week reported on a bloody terrorist attack in jerusalem four years ago - long before the second intifada - which took the lives of many innocent people. it describes how the images of the old perpetrators are venerated as heroes in palestinian schools. have we really done enough to control the terror that israel has been facing for years? that is why i do not think it is enough to demand that the israelis must withdraw. they must, no doubt, but that alone does not guarantee peace. it is not enough to condemn palestinian terrorism without doing more than making statements on paper. there is much to suggest that the parties will not be able to disengage from their mutual hatred, but that there must be an international force to engage there. the european union must also take action to do so. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in practice, this is a constant struggle between hope and despair. at the moment we have reason to be despairing about what is happening in zimbabwe, and we may have hope for the development in sierra leone. but the day after tomorrow, it could be a completely different story. we have set the course for acp cooperation in the cotonou agreement, with human rights and democracy clauses, the commitment to the rule of law and good governance. we have an instrument, although it is not as complete as we - those who carry out this work in parliamentary terms with the political dialogue - would like to have it. i think that this political dialogue is extremely important, because only by talking to each other can an agreement be reached. that is why we have the right to be consulted before the suspension is imposed. but that's not an easy question either. above all, we must ask ourselves: how can we punish dictatorial regimes without punishing the people? i therefore also tend to agree with a saying that is often used in germany: "the impossible is done immediately, the miracles take a little longer". we will have to take a long breath, and i do not know whether human rights are really being violated more often today than in the past. but one thing is certain, the crime has also been made public. we are learning more today, and this naturally also forces us to act. but the fact that crimes are now public and almost always caught on camera is a chance to tackle what used to be hidden.
the commission has already done so. in fact, at the beginning of each year, or rather early in the year, we have this procedure which is before us today. it might seem to the finance ministers that easter is all about the fact that there are big easter eggs coming from europe, namely in the form of money that flows back, which of course takes pressure off the national budgets and which we then have to decide on here at the beginning of each year. as has been said on several occasions, the supplementary and amending budget currently before us will be 10 billion, and the 2 billion which have been announced will also be on the table. but we must also remember that we have already transferred back 1.2 billion at the end of last year or even earlier, so that we are talking about a total of more than 13 billion unused funds for this one year. at the same time, at the end of each year, when christmas approaches, we do not necessarily have christmas presents for parliament. we must fight for the small sums which are not available for important political tasks. in the last three years, there was once in kosovo where you had to fight really hard to finally get money. it was about serbia, it was about aid for fisheries in the southern part of our union - in spain and portugal - and we even had to use our emergency reserves to ensure that the balkans continued to develop over the past year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this may mean that there were no programmes, that the member states did not work seriously, that the possibilities of help for citizens were not sufficiently exploited. but it definitely means that all that has been announced will have to be implemented at some point, and any repayment of payments today is a mortgage on the future, because if it is not paid today, it will be paid at some point in the future, so it is only a matter of limited joy. i think it's important to make clear that this is not really helping. i have already suggested, two years ago, that instead of letting all the money flow back, we should set up a reserve fund or an emergency fund, into which we would put funds, for example 10% of the funds to be transferred back. that would be a different approach. it would not be constantly being passed back and forth, but we could plan something more serious, and it would also help us to make progress elsewhere. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we in parliament intend to change the supplementary and amending budget so that a large part of it does not go back to the member states in the first place. we have just heard that in many areas there are payment requirements to meet past commitments. we shall be looking very hard for the discussion with the council in the coming days and weeks. we will be watching closely to see how open and how open the council is with us. i think there are good solutions here. everyone needs to know that cooperation means everyone is willing to talk to each other. this is also the case with the supplementary and amending budget, as always in the budgetary procedure. we are ready, but we are also prepared to have very intensive discussions with each other and, if necessary, to have an intensive exchange of arguments.
the commission has already done so. i would like to thank mrs martens and mrs avilés perea for their reports on the action programme on gender equality as a cross-cutting issue in development cooperation and on the 2000 annual report. i think there are some parallels here, and we in the socialist group are pleased to see that another building block has been added to the implementation of the beijing platform for action at the world conference on women. the gender mainstreaming framework strategy is being applied consistently. we are faced with a thorough analysis of the problem and we see clear directions for action for regional and national implementation. gender awareness is gaining ground among some decision-makers, and we know that sustainable development must start with women first. we also know that sustainable development is not a zero-sum game. it is therefore also shocking that the budget for gender-specific development cooperation, which was €5 million in 1998, was cut by 60% in 2001. how should a change of mind be initiated? i would remind you that the member states have committed themselves to spending 0.7% of their gross national product on development aid. we're miles away from that. the credibility of the so-called developed countries is at stake if we do not act immediately! i also ask the commission: what has become of the gender desk in development cooperation? how are we going to improve reproductive health and family planning, ensure access to contraception, including hiv/aids prevention, and bring that to rural areas if we don't significantly increase the budget? we have succeeded in bringing about a political debate to remove the taboo on practices which disrespect the dignity of women, such as female genital mutilation, public flogging, stoning, violence and sexual abuse, to denounce these abuses internationally and to fight them politically, but this too must be implemented. we need consistent annual reports, such as the one in mrs avilés perea's report, so that we can check the data accurately. that is why my group supports both reports. we can only support them fully and call on the commission to implement these lofty objectives.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i do not want to dwell on the many reports of discrimination against women in developing countries and elsewhere. i think the problem is well known. the commission is following as is parliament, as the rapporteurs have made clear once again the implementation of the principle of gender mainstreaming. but when i look at the resources available to do this, i wonder how this is to be done. gender mainstreaming is a top-down process, which requires that the necessary awareness raising, the necessary training activities take place within the organisations concerned, authorities, in this case the commission. we know that there is a serious shortage of staff in this area. if nothing has changed significantly, we have only one national expert from sweden who is involved in the field of women and development cooperation. this is a misconduct that we have been complaining about for years, and unfortunately we have not yet been able to see that a change has occurred. we never tire of stressing that the key to development lies in the hands of women. but we have no chance of even remotely being able to do that. commissioner, please note the deep disappointment of those in charge of development cooperation here in particular that we describe in many papers something - as we know, there is also a corresponding programme - but that it is not even remotely possible to apply this in a really satisfactory way. something really needs to change. it is also in the interest of europe: if we support the empowerment of women in developing countries, then this is also part of the emancipation of the european area and will also alleviate some of the problems we are still dealing with today. without empowering women, without giving them the tools for development, there will be no development at all!
- thank you for reporting this tragic event. we'll take note of that.
- report (a5-0092/2002) by mr kindermann, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the annual report from the commission to the council and the european parliament on the results of the multiannual guidance programmes for the fishing fleets at the end of 2000 (com (2001) 541 - c5-0007/2002 - 2002/2006 (cos)).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission has postponed for another time the adoption of the proposals for the reform of the common fisheries policy, which was originally due to take place last week. the commission has a number of proposals to make, and i am sure that the commission will be able to make them. but now to my report, in which i have deliberately confined myself to the commission's report on the implementation of the multiannual fleet reduction programmes. as we are in the hot phase of preparing for the reform of the common fisheries policy in general and thus also of the fleet policy in particular, i would like to take a position on the maps in general in order to point out some problems which should definitely be taken into account in the reform. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. this shows that the fisheries committee agrees in its assessment that the commission's 2000 report, as well as the previous annual reports, showed above all one thing: the maps have not achieved their objective, namely a significant reduction in fleet capacity and thus in fishing effort. we regret that the majority of member states have failed to meet their map targets, for the first time. we call on them to make a massive effort to reduce their fleet, and at the same time we welcome the fact that the commission has opened infringement proceedings against several member states which have repeatedly failed to meet their map targets. we also urge the council and the commission to analyse the reasons for the failure to achieve the objectives and to develop more effective sanctions. we also call on the commission to take into account in its proposals for a new fleet policy the need to strike a balance between the fishing capacity and/or fishing effort of each member state's fleet segments and the fishing rights available to it. commissioner fischler spoke to the committee on fisheries last week about an overcapacity of some 40% of european union fishing vessels, and this figure is not only alarming but underlines all the more the urgent need for action. this high overcapacity is mainly due to the fact that the fleet reduction instrument did not reach its target and that fleet capacity has actually increased in recent years. this problem must therefore be tackled urgently. the commission must, however, ensure that fleet reduction is carried out in a socially acceptable manner by using community financial aid to alleviate social hardship. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. the previous system led to fishermen who wanted to give up their activities and who had given up selling their vessel's tonnage on the market, and thus the fleet was increasingly bought up by companies with a high capacity. this does not, however, lead to a reduction in capacity. finally, efforts to reduce fleet capacity must not be at the expense of working conditions on board and the safety of the vessel or the quality of the catch. the commission has therefore decided to continue to use structural aid to modernise the fleet. however, ways must be found to prevent a simultaneous increase in fishing effort. i am aware that it is not an easy task for the commission to come up with a balanced proposal, and we look forward to hearing their proposals for reform. i would like to thank all those who have helped us in this delicate task, and in particular the commission for its constructive cooperation. (applause from the centre)
- mr kindermann, i admire commissioner fischler who, as an austrian, must be familiar with a subject which affects one of the most important fleets.
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to thank you very much, mr kindermann, for your excellent report. you have really analysed very well the strengths and also the weaknesses of our current naval policy. i share your opinion that the time for maps is over. we cannot achieve our common goals for the future with this kind of fleet policy. we need a simpler fleet policy, a more transparent fleet policy and a fleet policy that also works. before i turn to the amendments which are being discussed here, i would like to make two comments on the present state of the fisheries policy and the preparations for reform, especially since they have been mentioned by several speakers here. the commission has already made a number of proposals in the past, and i am sure that the commission will continue to make proposals in the future. but i want to make one thing clear: i want reform, and it will not be by watered down reform proposals. the current situation is that additional information and analysis have been requested from various quarters, including the commission. so, since i want not just proposals for reform, but reform in the sense that there is also a decision to reform, i have accepted that we should give ourselves this time to obtain this supplementary information so that we are also able to defend our position to everyone. the second point i would like to make is that there have been various reports in the media. the commission decided yesterday to increase the rotation of directors-general and deputy directors-general; the commission has also proposed that the director-general of the directorate-general for fisheries be involved. i want to make it clear that i have full confidence in director smidt, that i am working well with him. but it is also affected by the rotation because there are a number of different objectives to be achieved in the context of this rotation. it is not just about rotation, but also about other objectives. this is the context in which this change is seen. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the first and second points: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road. i fully agree with you, and the commission has already initiated infringement proceedings against a number of member states in this connection. in paragraph 3 you call for more effective and dissuasive sanctions from the council and the commission. i can assure you that we will address this issue in the reform of the common fisheries policy. however, i would like to add one thing: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the penalties are effective and that the penalties are proportionate. i agree with you on point 4. the member states must complete the re-measurement of their fleets as soon as possible. target date here is the end of 2003. i cannot, however, agree with the statement in paragraph 5. sustainable exploitation of stocks would not have been achieved even if all member states had achieved their objectives. the reason for this is that the council has set the objectives in its map decisions far too low and far too unambitious. you know from our reports that it is shown that in reality, despite map targets, fleet capacity tends to increase - even if they are met - and not decrease. i agree with points 6 and 10. the map should not be maintained as it is in the context of a revised common fisheries policy. we need to improve safety on board. i agree with that, but it must not lead to an increase in fishing effort. we shall discuss your request for new criteria for the measurement of fishing effort and capacity in paragraph 7 in the context of the reform. for example, the number and size of fishing gear could be taken into account in the capacity calculation. i also accept paragraph 8. a 'old-against-new' system for fishing vessels is part of our considerations for the new fleet policy. we also accept paragraph 9 in its entirety. restrictions on fishing effort will be a key element of the reform. finally, i can also accept your request in paragraph 11, namely that voluntary scrapping programmes with attractive premiums should be set up. however, the level of the community contribution is subject to the rules of the structural funds.
- thank you very much, commissioner fischler. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0112/2002) by mr hernández mollar, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council directive on minimum standards for the reception of asylum seekers in the member states (com (2001) 181 - c5-0248/2001 - 2001/0091 (cns)).
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have not been to monterrey, but i often travel to the acp countries in africa, and there you can see very vividly how poor countries are suffering under the burden of debt. the cologne debt relief initiative can help to alleviate this burden and to channel new resources to social benefits. this is the subject of the council decision on the application of the hipc initiative and the commission communication. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but this is not a correction, it is not a reform of the international financial architecture, which is absolutely necessary, regardless of the amount of funds available, because there must be a paradigm shift in development cooperation, especially with the poorest countries. this is not to be achieved by saying 'going further than we have done so far', but by being called upon to set new priorities.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mrs fontaine, during her term of office, at the express request of the house, introduced a rule that such speeches, called 'rule of procedure' speeches, should come after the vote on the agenda. (applause from the centre) i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. i think that this question is also of interest to many other members in this chamber who are not from a particular part of the world. perhaps you could give me some information. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the rules of procedure do not allow for requests for urgent debate to be tabled at short notice. our delegation for cooperation with georgia was in georgia last week. since municipal elections are due to be held there on 2 june, we have asked whether these municipal elections are being held correctly. we have learned that two parties have already been denied entry to the elections, and we have just learned that another party, that of the former president of the parliament, who left the shevardnadze party and founded a new party, will also not be allowed to participate in the elections. we would just like to make this clear and then, of course, discuss it with the commission and the council. we consider this a great urgency, even though our may session will no longer allow urgency, because the municipal elections are already over in june. we think that this should be mentioned. we are also concerned about the fact that the elections will not be democratic. we want to work for georgia, but the basis is that there must be democratic conditions. i'd like to put this on the record.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. first of all, on behalf of my group, i should like to thank the rapporteur, who has not only worked very hard on this complex subject - she is a specialist in this field - but has also tried to make very excellent proposals as far as possible. we are very disappointed with the council. in december, when we tried to reach agreement at the first reading, he was unable to speak to us at all. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i must say that it is shocking that in a situation of passenger danger, a situation after 9/11, the council is unable to reach an agreement with us quickly. we have a counterexample. we have just completed the question of noise-related operating restrictions at airports within three months between the council and parliament. but the council's inability to agree with us on such an important issue as the safety of passengers is shameful and we should make it clear. i also hope that when we vote in closed session tomorrow, the council will consider quickly to find a solution with us through the conciliation procedure. i would also appeal to the commission to tell the council that we have done everything possible to reach an agreement with the council. the council has been incapable of doing this, and i now expect the commission to support us in at least most of our amendments. the council must see to it that parliament and the commission act together. let me make two points: firstly, it is very important that the member states accept that they will have to bear the costs of the increased security measures. it is not acceptable that in my country the police should monitor and control every football match at the expense of the general public, when the professional clubs are not making such a bad living, but at the increased security measures at airports which are in the general interest, not just in the interest of airports, in which the member states do not want to participate. it's not working! we expect the council to meet us at this central point. the second, somewhat critical point - the honourable member has already touched on this - is the question: is it really necessary to control the employees 100%? i disagree. my group shares the rapporteur's view, but let me point out once again that, unlike passengers, staff are in principle checked once before being hired. if you want to check them five or six times a day, that's a little too much of a good thing! we must see that safety is important, but there must also be a practicable airport handling for the passengers, the airlines and the airports. so i hope we'll make a different decision tomorrow. those who committed these criminal acts on september 11 were not employees of an airport or an airline!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by thanking mrs berger for her extensive and worthwhile work and also for the contributions of her colleagues. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the aim is to protect consumers primarily through two instruments, namely the right of withdrawal and extensive information, advice and training obligations. it is obvious from the outset that such rights protect the consumer. on the other hand - and this must certainly be the case in many cases - it also has its weaknesses. does the consumer read the information? does he take note of them? does he understand them? does he really withdraw his signature, or is it possible that he is being led into a reckless attitude towards it and then does not get rid of it? on the other hand, the business community and the legal community also have an interest in the durability of contracts and - as mr karas has just mentioned - the consumer himself may also have an interest in immediate effect. i say this because, in these respects, where this is provided for, the notarial certification of consumer statements is the better protection of the consumer. it is not a question of a single directive, but of a single directive. secondly, it also involves advice from a third party, an outsider who is bound to be impartial, and it even involves liability, which is what may happen, of course, if that advice has not been given properly. at the same time, however, it combines these points with the advantage of the duration of a document, the duration of contracts, the granting of legal certainty. in my view, it is therefore, on the whole, where it is intended, as i have said, a better protection for consumers. of course, this is not possible in all cases, especially not in the mass business of daily life. i therefore think you should follow that where national rules provide for consumer certification, this must suffice because it is the better consumer protection.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank all those involved who have helped to give new impetus to european youth policy with this white paper. thousands of young europeans have been involved in the process of creation through a unique consultation process and our parliament has also made an important contribution in a highly publicised public hearing. we support the new forms of cooperation proposed, emphasizing the primary responsibility of the member states for young people: a) the open method of coordination, which we believe should be specified in an interinstitutional agreement; and b) mainstreaming, i.e. taking into account the interests of young people in other policy areas. however, those who listened carefully to the young people found that, in addition to education, lifelong learning, mobility, employment, social integration, the fight against racism and xenophobia, other important issues such as equal opportunities between young women and young men, immigration, drug and alcohol addiction were important areas of european action. our committee expects the convention to make proposals on how young people can be actively involved in the construction of a european democratic europe, because europe is still too far away for young people. as rapporteur, i believe it is necessary to complete the youth chapter in the eu treaty and to further raise the profile of children and youth policy in the commission, especially after the results of the world summit for children in new york. european youth organisations, in particular the european youth forum, have made a significant contribution to the participation of young people in the white paper's decision-making process. the white paper now calls on all actors, from researchers to national representatives to local authorities, to develop new forms of participation, including for unorganised young people. youth parliaments, conventions, school competitions and sports clubs are all options. political parties also have a great responsibility and should involve young people more and encourage them to take up political office. this will be very important in the 2004 elections. we support greater promotion of voluntary work by young people, but we must improve the legal and social protection of young people and recognise this non-formal education. the resolution contains a number of other proposals, for example, to make better use of community programmes or the structural funds for young people. this requires improving the data situation. a triennial youth report, with comparable statistics and indicators from the member states and candidate countries, will provide an important basis for a broad debate and further policy decisions. the pisa study, which applies to the education sector, has already shown this. but other coordinated measures are also needed, for example to prevent violence after the erfurt disaster. in the field of information for young people, an internet portal is not enough as a forum for discussion. there are strong geographical and gender, but also social, differences in its use. i propose to develop innovative material in the language of young people and to introduce the european union's youth activities to a wide public in an annual week of action. but, ladies and gentlemen, there is no good unless you do it. the white paper on youth policy can only be a first step, a first important step, which the commission has taken to get in touch with many young people and with stakeholders. but it's not cheap either. the commission has already taken a number of measures which are not covered by the youth programme. the good proposals cannot be implemented here because the youth programme is 99% exhausted. the council of ministers must now make a decision here quickly at the end of the month. we need a green light for the white paper. we must then act together to implement other proposals, including budgetary ones, as nothing would be more devastating for our activities and for our reputation among young people in the european union than if the high expectations raised among young people - i have been to many of these european and national conferences and have spoken to young people - were not met and no action were taken.
author of the opinion of the consultative committee on women's rights and equal opportunities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has presented us with a comprehensive blueprint for the future youth policy of the european union in the white paper 'a new impetus for europe's youth'. this is a step in the right direction, but it is a concept that is still scalable. the european youth organisations have expressed their support for greater gender mainstreaming in this white paper in the consultation process with the commission. i have taken up these concerns in my opinion to the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities and i have strongly supported them. equal opportunities and gender issues are not just for us adults, on the contrary. it is in schools and youth work that the way is being laid for the equality of girls and boys, of women and men, to be taken for granted. the european youth policy must also attach great importance to this. i welcome the report's proposals for greater participation of young people at all political levels, the intensification of youth-specific information, the promotion of voluntary involvement of young people and the emphasis on youth interests in the convention and in the constitutional debate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. youth policy is primarily the responsibility of the nations, regions and local authorities. europe can provide a framework for this. i am very critical of the proposed open coordination in this context. it is not possible to define it in the form proposed and it is not parliamentary. the family is also a key element in the lives of european young people. the white paper and the report do not take sufficient account of this. family is also youth policy. it must be protected and strengthened. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which i hope will be a useful one. but we must continue to talk to the younger generation and push for implementation with great effort. it is only then that the simple impulse becomes a process with drive, as the young people of europe rightly expect.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to go back briefly to the history of the white paper and to give some examples of why a white paper on youth policy is so necessary. we all know that among the citizens, including those of enlarged europe, there will be 75 million young people between 15 and 25 years of age. but with the decline in birth rates and the corresponding increase in life expectancy, our society is also aging. between 2000 and 2020, the proportion of the eu population aged 65 to 90 will increase to between 16% and 21%, while the proportion of the population aged 14 to 24 will be only 11%. this quantitative disparity between young and old people will change relations on different levels quite a bit. to meet these challenges, it is necessary that we find answers within our society. this requires us to take appropriate accompanying measures, especially for young people, in order to avoid social tensions and negative effects on education systems and the labour market. the current system of european cooperation in youth matters has reached its limits and no longer meets the needs of the problems that need to be tackled. we all know that investing in young people means investing in what makes our society rich, today and in the future. as my predecessor has said, youth policy is primarily the responsibility of the member states. the new white paper on youth policy is intended to pave the way for a new type of european cooperation in the youth field. it is true that the white paper is far from optimal. but it must be put into practice urgently to increase the participation of young people in the construction of europe and in shaping our future. the white paper is a logical step towards a future-oriented youth policy. i would also like to thank commissioner reding for her initiative at the time, but above all for her commitment and the way in which she tackled these tasks, namely by involving young people directly and listening to young people. i think this is the right step in the right direction, because youth policy, policy for young people, cannot be done without young people, but must be done with them. the white paper is not yet perfect, but, as i said, it is a step in the right direction. i ask for your agreement on behalf of my group in the vote tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the concerns, desires and concerns of young people must be taken seriously. i therefore welcome the green report on the commission's white paper on european youth. it is proposed that the needs of young people should be taken more into account in the design of measures in various european union policies. we must give young people the opportunity to be active and involved in public life. the results of the pisa study in germany are sobering. i therefore advocate a reform of school policy which also takes into account the views of pupils and young people. i think that the participation of young people in public life is particularly important. young people are increasingly less involved in traditional organisational structures such as parties and trade unions. this is particularly evident in the participation of young people in the elections at national and european level. we must encourage young people in particular to stand at local, national and european level and we must actively support them in this. i demand that the voice and opinion of young people in politics not be dismissed as a side issue. i find it particularly regrettable that the commission's white paper does not take a gender perspective into account. i think that aspect cannot be ruled out. young women must be supported in every way, because women still do not have the same opportunities as men in the labour market. top positions are predominantly held by men. the unemployment rate for women is higher in europe and women earn on average less than their male counterparts. i am a campaigner for equal opportunities for women and men in the labour market. i am glad that the white paper gives a high priority to the fight against racism. this is particularly important because people are discriminated against because of the colour of their skin, their membership of an ethnic or religious minority. we must encourage young people to embrace other cultures. i am convinced that this will lead to mutual enrichment. the dialogue promotes mutual understanding among peoples for peace. i am committed to ensuring that people in europe can live not only side by side but above all together. by being willing to approach the other and the stranger, we gain a worldview that is open and tolerant. youth policy must be given special importance at national and european level. this includes providing adequate financial resources for youth actions. i think it is particularly important that community programmes should give sufficient support to projects which benefit young people. the house of europe cannot be built without taking account of the interests of young people. i therefore ask that their ideas about the future of europe be incorporated into the convention. if we ignore the interests of young people, the foundations of the house of europe will be shaken, because the youth of today are the future of tomorrow!
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i remember that in my last report on sport in 1996 i called for a year of sport. it took viviane reding a long time to become commissioner and now we have this year. that's nice, though, and i thank you. but when i look at this year's title, everything in me cramps, because that's a cramp! why do we have to be so confused when we talk about sports? i wanted a year of sports, and now we have a year of education through sports. we all know why we are going round in circles, because sport should not be a topic at all, but it is, not just in football, everywhere! everybody talks about sports at some point every day. the only place where this is not relevant is in the european union. why do we have to make such a distinction? sport has always been transnational. we are fighting the reprehensible doping in sport in europe with a joint doping agency. so there is sport in europe. we also handle sports rights with the tv policy. so, there are sports in europe. why the eu governments are still hesitant about this is beyond my comprehension. i hope that next time you sit down you will have learned something from the year of sport education and will have made it a real european task, which will not, of course, be outside the framework of subsidiarity. we have welcomed this commission proposal with great goodwill. we have had very few problems, but of course parliament is making amendments. we have followed the proposal for funding. of course, i thought, 'you've been decent enough not to ask for more money,' and then the council said, 'that's still too much!' i'll think about it next time. i'll make demands again, maybe we'll get even more than what you've proposed. we have had great success with some of these programmes. i wanted things to go well and quickly, but unfortunately, god didn't. but that seems to have been rectified. we have not followed everything the commission has said. we have said in one area that we absolutely do not want to spend any more money this year on research and investigation. we have said that all the money that is set aside for this year must also be spent on visible actions this year or as a prelude. the only exception is evaluation. it always comes after a year like this, of course, but it's not even in the part we're trying to delete. we hope, of course, that the commission will support us in this. we have tabled amendments to strengthen and promote the contribution of voluntary activities to informal education. we have tabled amendments to promote the dissemination of best practice and to create an online database. we want to support networks that spread the educational role of sport, and we have highlighted something that is a big problem, which is that competitive athletes often do not have the opportunity to earn an educational degree because they have reached a quasi-maximum during their schooling and then have partially neglected their school performance. this european year is an important year, taking place in the year of the summer olympic games in athens, across europe, and community and national actions are being implemented to promote lasting cooperation between educational institutions and sports associations and to better integrate sporting practice and values into teaching. i took the liberty, because i was a little too dry, to work out a highlight for this sporting year, and the colleagues followed me. i said: 'let's have a school competition in 2003 all over europe, and at the end of it, the winners of this competition will be invited to the 2004 olympics, where the olympic flame will be lit.' i thought it was a great idea. our world is made of images, and these are great images, and these are actions, too. i would have liked - i have to say this - the commissioner to have given us a little more support in relation to the council. the council rejects this. i just want to say again, it doesn't cost much more. it's probably not going to cost anything because we have money in the reserve. we don't always have to tell the council, but we have money. we can do this, and we should really do this. i can't believe he doesn't want to. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like the council to make as much haste as we have made in adopting its common position by 31 may. we are prepared to take this matter to the committee as soon as possible and, if necessary, to ensure that we do not have to go through a conciliation procedure in a trilogue. i think the council has to come a little closer to us. if the commission is still helping him along this road, i would be very grateful to it. thank you again, viviane reding, for this introduction. we are grateful that she has finally come!
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the year 2004 will be the european year of education through sport. sport has always been a preferred, successful and effective instrument which has a fundamentally positive influence on educational policy and fundamental educational values of our social life. the promotion of sport and the partnership between sport and education have a positive effect on teamwork, tolerance, solidarity, the fight against drugs and violence and on healthy and fair competition without doping. these are values that need to be rediscovered and promoted. the choice of 2004 as the european year of education through sport is therefore very welcome in this context, also in the light of the olympic and paralympic games in athens and the european football championships in portugal. the commission proposes a total of eur 11.5 million for financing, of which eur 3.5 million will be earmarked for operational expenditure in 2003 as a preparatory year and eur 8 million for 2004. the proposed financial framework must be compatible with the ceiling set in the financial perspective and must not lead to cuts in other areas. for reasons of efficiency and to avoid unnecessary administrative costs, a coordinating body should be established in each member state. i also believe that there should be no formal obligation to consult a group of undetermined experts who decide on the financing and co-financing of individual measures. the management and evaluation of the programme should remain in the commission's hands, i.e. in the public domain. the decision to have a european year of sport is right, but continuity is the key to success. this excellent action is well worth continuing to develop, because it is an investment in our young people, who are to grow up healthy and contribute to the building of a healthy and united europe. it is a worthwhile investment in our future, because our youth is our future!
the rapporteur. the commission is not i propose that the european parliament confirm mr lukas papademos as vice-president of the european central bank. this was the unanimous vote of the committee. the confirmation of the proposed candidate is not a pro forma confirmation. it is the result of the hearing in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and is therefore part of the transparency of monetary policy. the president of the european central bank is known to experts, but not to the citizens of europe. but you have to have faith in this vice president. the future member of the executive board of the european central bank will take part in the decision-making process on the monetary policy of the euro area. its decisions therefore also affect growth and jobs and, therefore, people's lives. after all, money must serve people, not people serve money! monetary policy decisions are the work of men. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the creation of a european network of experts in the field of the environment, the development of a european network of experts in the field of the environment, and the development of a european network of experts in the field of the environment. the hearing underlined these qualifications. the future vice-president is the first successor of the first directorate which so successfully prepared and implemented the introduction of the euro. the independence of the members of the executive board is underlined by the fact that they cannot be re-elected, and in this respect the first proof of independence of personnel has been provided here again. the independence of the european central bank - and i must stress this once again today - is rightly a constituent part of european monetary union. finally, monetary policy is not neutral. in a democracy, there are no institutions that are infallible or that can operate in the dark. the transparency of decisions and reasons for decisions is, for democratic and integration policy reasons, an integral part of the role of the european central bank. this transparency is not only in the interest of european democracy, but also in the interest of the european central bank, which has gained credibility, legitimacy and trustworthiness as has been shown in recent years. we want to strengthen this authority in the interests of people and markets. after all, in the money system of a nation, everything that that nation wants, suffers and is is reflected, as the famous economist joseph schumpeter once said. the european parliament believes that the transparency of the european central bank has increased considerably compared with the previous european national central banks and that we have thus experienced a kind of cultural revolution in the eurozone countries. the monetary dialogue between the european parliament and the european central bank has really contributed to this. it is not just the publication of reports, monthly, quarterly or annual, but also the monetary dialogue, in order to question not only the decision but also the decision-making background of monetary policy. but we must continue to insist as the european parliament that these publications be accompanied by the publication of summary minutes and the voting procedure. the federal reserve just decided that on the day of the monetary policy decision, all the names and voting behavior of the members will be published, so that everyone knows who voted for what. the european parliament would be satisfied with an anonymous publication of voting behaviour, just as it would be satisfied with a publication of the arguments for or against a decision in summary minutes, because it is important for us to know that not only the primary objective of monetary policy, price stability, is actually taken into account, but also the secondary objectives of supporting growth and employment by the european union. it is interesting to note that in the united states voting behaviour is not only determined by the problems of inflationary risks but also by the problems of unemployment, as a recent study from the united states has highlighted. it would be reassuring to know that the members of the european central bank are also affected by this, especially since monetary policy has the secondary task, as i said, of supporting growth and employment, and to date the european parliament is not clear on the definition of the fulfilment of this second objective by the european central bank. it is important to have clarity on this in particular this year, because monetary policy decisions should not stop the weakening recovery in europe. the importance of the summarisation of these objectives in article 105 of the ec treaty was made very clear in the hearing of the vice-president-designate, mr papademos. i therefore want to emphasize once again that we support his appointment. even if it has no legal meaning, it is important that legitimacy is emphasized in this confirmation procedure. the other would require the reform of the ec treaty. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the outcome of the legislative procedure now being completed on the caudron report and the sixth research framework programme contains, in my view, both light and shadow. the commission has already made a number of proposals in the common position and in the commission proposal, and we have achieved a number of things. i think it is particularly positive that the disease and treatment of children is now part of european research policy. unfortunately, there was resistance at first, but we have managed to overcome that resistance. i also think it is particularly important that priority 1 includes not only genetic engineering, with all the opportunities it offers us, but also medical research in general. i would like to thank all those involved for the improvements achieved: the commission, mr busquin, the rapporteur, mr caudron, the shadow rapporteurs, in particular mr van velzen, and also the spanish presidency. the compromise reached now, however, has in my view a very big and serious flaw: it has not set out clear rules for dealing with ethically sensitive areas of research. of course, the european parliament has its difficulties here too, but we have adopted a proposal at first reading which could at least be a guideline for europe. i do not agree with him 100%, but it is a compromise that has been crystallized there. unfortunately, the council has not taken care of its responsibilities and has not drawn up clear rules in this area. this is a difficult situation for all involved, it is a legal uncertainty. the commission will not have an easy time with this text, because it does not contain a mandate to support research on human embryos, for example. this is not clearly excluded. this will lead to quarrels. that is why we in europe should continue to work towards a compromise. i am prepared to work towards a compromise, even if i have to rely on my own personal convictions, which are very restrictive. but until we have such a compromise, we cannot finance it together. subsidiarity cannot mean that we have no common rules - everyone does what he wants - but everyone pays together. that is why amendments must be tabled and adopted here again. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this is a great achievement and i would like to thank mr caudron very warmly, but also mr busquin, who has shown himself in this programme with new ideas. i wish him every success in implementing this programme. it will not be easy to manage and implement such a large programme, not just with 15 member states but with other countries participating in this programme. good luck on your journey, though. i am very pleased that two subjects which i have been advocating repeatedly have been included, namely, firstly, research to improve the human environment of mines. i would ask the commission to concentrate these efforts as much as possible under one roof. the second is the issue of disarmament, a contribution to the disarmament of abc weapons, a technical contribution to the destruction of these weapons. if you turn to the newspapers today, you will read that the two former superpowers are liquidating the legacy of the cold war, that is, they are really going to disarm massively. it would be a noble task for the european union to play a part in this. on the ethical side, we have found a compromise here. the commission has made a statement which is essentially in line with what the european parliament decided at first reading. my request is that we should advance the discourse on the finality of science, including ethics in europe. the real problem is not the council, parliament or the commission, but the different public opinions. it would be important to contribute to the broadest possible public debate on the purpose, content and finality of science and technology in europe, and this should be a priority during the 6th framework programme. i can assure you that the european parliament is interested in this. i myself co-founded stoa, i know the importance of the technology assessment task and i hope that we will work well together with the commission.
- mr fatuzzo, i would like to point out that when you give explanations of vote, they must be related to your vote.
in writing. - (de) first of all, i would like to make it clear that i am in full support of transparency in parliament's work and that all official ep documents should be accessible to the public. i have nevertheless voted against the maij-weggen report. parliament's work deals with political questions - sometimes very sensitive questions - in the conciliation procedure between the council and parliament and sometimes even with very sensitive questions in the work of delegations. it seems irresponsible to me to make 'working documents' available to the public. you mustn 't confuse official documents with work documents ! the conciliation procedure in particular is intended to make the different political positions of parliament and the council known. if all the ideas in the working papers are made public in advance, we can end our political activity. the council will be pleased to know in advance all the intentions of parliament.
- the good thing about life is that comedy is not only dante's privilege, but that we sometimes see it here in the european parliament.
- mr. fatuzzo, i also had a dream last night. i dreamt that we had finally decided to reform the rules of procedure of parliament.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is not prepared to accept this. thank you very much for your kind words. i know that my colleague, magdalene hoff, would like to say a few words to you at the end of her speech, which i shall read to you, but i thank you in advance. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. with the accession of poland and lithuania to the european union, the russian enclave of kaliningrad will also become an enclave of the european union. the difficult, unique and almost paradoxical situation is that kaliningrad, as a russian territory, is covered by the partnership and cooperation agreement with moscow, but is actually more affected by the enlargement of the european union. in 1994 the european parliament issued a report drawing attention to the precarious situation in kaliningrad. in the report we said that the future of the kaliningrad region is a matter of direct and urgent importance for russia, the neighbouring states of the region and the european union as well. the practical consequences of the measures adopted at that time have become even more important for the recovery of the area. examples of this are the stimulation of cross-border cooperation and the increased integration of the kaliningrad region into european transport and telecommunications structures. it is regrettable that the time has not been used sufficiently since then. now, within the framework of the proposed strategic partnership you have mentioned, and with the appropriate involvement of the neighbouring countries of poland and lithuania, new opportunities are emerging to find solutions for kaliningrad that will ensure the viability of the area and perhaps even make it an active link between the partners. at the same time, however, i would like to emphasize explicitly, as i did in 1994, that all considerations concerning the development of kaliningrad must be based on the premise that the territory will continue to belong to russia under international law and that its state-legal status will be settled exclusively between the responsible authorities in moscow and kaliningrad. there are two possible scenarios: one negative and one positive. in a negative scenario, the european union's relationship with russia would be severely strained. the two sides failed an important test of cooperation and crisis prevention capability under the partnership agreements. in a positive scenario, however, the economic location of kaliningrad could gain profile as a reference point for transport links, trade activities and modern services in the dynamic baltic sea region as a whole. as a pilot region for implementing economic structural reforms, the area could radiate across the whole of north-west russia, bringing this large region closer to europe. in short, a consensual settlement on kaliningrad could become a model for a practical and not just nominal partnership between the eu and russia as a whole. in view of the acute need for action, a new dynamic is now emerging on both sides. i welcome the fact that president prodi recently referred to the need to find arrangements for kaliningrad before poland and lithuania join the eu, after the commission had developed such ideas in its 2001 kaliningrad communication. the visible commitment of president putin to a constructive negotiated solution is also positive. in the following i will not go into the various areas of common regulatory needs in detail, but will merely make a few rather basic remarks. the issue of visas and border controls, which people understandably feel is particularly sensitive, requires a balance between the strict protection of the eu's external borders on the one hand and the need for easier border crossing on the other. russia will also have to accept - and we assume it will accept this - the rules of the relevant community law in principle. the union cannot accept exceptions in this respect, especially since this would create a prejudice for other border regions. the european union, for its part, should also consider whether there are not a number of possibilities for a facilitated visa regime within schengen and beyond the cases mentioned in the communication. the report contains some further suggestions on this subject. the inclusion of kaliningrad in the baltic sea region must not be revived by a border regime exclusively for the people. flexible regulations on passenger and goods traffic are important prerequisites for kaliningrad's recovery and have great symbolic value for people in the tension of confinement and exclusion, but, contrary to what is often assumed in moscow today, they are not enough for recovery. we have seen this with the open borders with poland and lithuania. most of kaliningrad's economic indicators are rather negative and still do not show a positive upward trend. the standard of living in the border area is considerably lower than the russian average. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the opening of kaliningrad to the outside world must therefore be accompanied by far-reaching reforms in the economy and administration of the territory. failure to do so risks the elimination of the large part of the local industries that are not competitive from foreign competition and further reduction of the small presence of foreign investors in kaliningrad. the leaders in moscow and kaliningrad, as the people responsible for the region, are therefore called upon to create the conditions for good governance on the ground in the form of functioning, transparent and predictable structures in administration, judiciary and politics. at the same time, of course, there are many ways to support these efforts. it would be particularly useful to set up an investment agency which could also provide the appropriate financial basis. this of course includes continued intensive cooperation within tacis and, of course, the desire to see the appropriate funds made available through the international financial institutions - i would like to mention in particular the european investment bank. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i should like to conclude by giving the floor to my colleague, magdalena hoff. (applause from the centre)
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i'll see to it if i'm sitting still. my health has not yet recovered to the point where i can speak. please don't consider this rude. i do not want to take up too much of your time, but i would like to thank all those who have helped to formulate the report in such a way that commissioner patten says that the commission will take this into account in its negotiations at the moscow summit. thank you very much, commissioner. (applause from the centre) the fact that the debate on this report has been put in the right context here, namely a joint debate on the russian federation, makes it clear once again that we believe it is the russian government's responsibility to ensure that reasonable conditions are established in kaliningrad. we have been to kaliningrad recently with a delegation from our house, and anyone who walks through the region or the city with open eyes can only turn away in horror. we had the opportunity to speak to the mayor of kaliningrad, who complained bitterly that during the last visit of representatives of the european union, hopes were being raised for the construction of a new hospital. the main issue is that tb patients can be helped. all the issues raised by the previous speakers - human rights, public health and environmental policy - are the real issues, and we must take action to help them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope we will succeed, but i am not too afraid that what has been expressed here by the various representatives of the presidency, the commission and also parliament will also be discussed at the summit in moscow. thank you very much for giving me a few minutes. i think we will continue to work together, mrs lalumière, to ensure that what parliament has decided so far is implemented and becomes practical policy. thank you very much. i would like to thank in particular erika mann, who, when i asked her to speak on my behalf, accepted without hesitation. thank you so much, erika! (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to begin by expressing my warmest respect and appreciation on behalf of my group, but also personally, to magdalena hoff for her great work in general and her excellent work on kaliningrad. i would add, for the sake of the dignity of this hour, dear magdalene, that i have never addressed anyone by first name in an official speech before, and this is the first time. i would also like to thank you very, very warmly for many years of good cooperation both here in parliament, of course, and at another level, namely in the european union, germany. all my best wishes for your speedy recovery. thank you very much for your great work. (applause from the centre) i would like to say a word of condolence to the victims of kaspiysk in dagestan who were murdered on 9 may. among the more than 30 dead were many children. as commissioner patten has said, terrorism is never justified. we hope that this will not happen again. we ask the russian government - commissioner patten and mr de miguel, president of the council, have also said this, and i ask you to express this at the summit - that if the attacks and acts of violence were committed by chechens, in the case of dagestan, this is a presumption for which there is no proof yet, that these terrorists and perpetrators of violence are not to be equated with the chechen people, but that the civilian population in chechnya is protected ... (applause)... and that we ensure, through negotiations, that chechnya has a good future. overall, we believe that our relations with russia are strategic relations. our relations with the united states of america are of strategic importance, our relations with the mediterranean are of strategic importance and, of course, the enlargement of the european union is also of strategic importance, but so are our relations with russia. our relations must be based on democratic principles, the rule of law, the social and market economy and, above all, human rights and human dignity. on this basis we want to cooperate with russia politically, economically and in the field of security. we also underline what has just been said here: the common european economic area, as much cooperation with russia as possible. but i would also add that, because this is said occasionally, i cannot imagine and the vast majority of our group - i think they agree - cannot imagine that russia, with its size, could become a member of the european union. you have to say that once, because it requires honesty. but we want to expand economic relations, to lower trade barriers, to allow more investment in russia. we must remove the restrictions. we want to work together in the field of internal security. i was recently with the executive of our group in finland, a country bordering russia, where there are exemplary border controls. we need to create something similar on all our borders with russia. i urge the russian government to do the same so that we can be safe in kaliningrad! since my time has run out, i would just like to add that we have every intention of intensifying relations with the russian federation, because the security of our continent in the 21st century depends to a large extent on the european union being able to act and russia being able to act and hopefully democratic, so that we can have a good future together on our european continent! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the world has changed in recent years, unfortunately not always to more peace and security, to more partnership and peaceful coexistence. after the second world war, the peoples of the world gave the un security council many rights and a great responsibility for the security and maintenance of peace. although the soviet union, the victorious superpower that once ranked second to the united states, no longer exists, russia, its successor, is not a meaningless country. russia has nuclear weapons, it has immense resources, and it has played a major role in shaping the history of the 19th and 20th centuries in europe and the world. the enlarged european union can develop more potential for partnership with russia if the last elements and fears of a cold war past are overcome and, for example, economic cooperation with the applicant countries of central and eastern europe is used and not deliberately eliminated. if europe as a whole wants to get out of a policy of antagonism, it should not create new confrontations with a new geostrategy, but should extend a hand to russia in a genuine practical partnership. we should not count and measure the number of meetings and assemblies. what should be counted is what really comes out in results. the field of common interest is so vast that in the long term, mutually beneficial cooperation and economic partnership with russia, which promotes security and reduces social tension, is the only sensible way forward.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too would like to thank mrs hoff for the very good report. i think it is so much better than the first report, it is much better than the commission document, and i very much hope that this report will really go down in the history of this parliament, because it goes much further, and the cooperation has also been excellent. i thank the rapporteur for having largely adopted my amendments. there is a danger that there will always be beautiful sunday speeches about the importance of cooperation in what is a special situation in kaliningrad, but for the people there there is first of all the fear, which is fed by a reality, the fear that it will become more difficult with transit, in freedom of movement, in cooperation between ngos and that there is poverty and increasing unemployment. we need new ways of using existing instruments, new ways of using small-scale border traffic, new ways of using economic cooperation, new ways of using transnational cooperation and, above all, - and i would like to appeal to you once again, commissioner - new ways of using financial instruments. a joint action plan also needs a joint fund.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank you for allowing me, in derogation from the agenda, to make a comment to my colleague, mrs magdalene hoff. we, as social democrats in this parliament and we german social democrats in particular, have to thank mrs hoff for coming today. i am very pleased that the commissioner has taken the initiative to put forward a report on the situation in the community. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if i give her a bouquet of flowers with your permission, mr president, because it is not in the rules of procedure that such a thing is allowed, i do so in the hope that i do so not only on behalf of the social democrats but also on behalf of all members of this house who can also be proud to have such a colleague in their ranks. (applause from the centre)
i'm not going to tell you. in your report today you have referred to the problematic situation of revenue in the member states, which is partly the result of the structural reforms initiated by the commission. is it not time to look at the deficits in the stability and growth pact and the stability and convergence programmes, perhaps with reference to structural deficits, or should we insist on the qualification of expenditure alone, as is the case in the united states when we talk about public finances?
the commission is aware that research on human embryos is subject to different ethical choices and regulations in different countries. as regards the ethical framework for the sixth framework programme, the rules proposed by the commission are in line with parliament's amendment at first reading on the sixth framework programme and with the opinion of the european ethics group. they are also based on those of the fifth research framework programme. the commission's position was reiterated in a statement when the council adopted the common position on the sixth research framework programme. it implies that participants in community research programmes must strictly respect national legislation and ethical codes. local ethics committees or competent national authorities must be consulted and give a favourable opinion or consent before the research activity begins. as already stated in our previous reply, in areas where the community has formal competence, such as research, national legislation should not prevent action at community level which would have been adopted by the co-decision procedure involving the council and parliament. in this context, the commission is of the opinion that the use of funds for research activities under the sixth framework programme should be made in strict accordance with the decisions to be taken in co-decision by the council and parliament. the commission is well aware that respect for the diversity of cultures and ethical approaches in europe does not justify a laissez-faire attitude. as in the past, it will submit any proposal raising ethical issues to an ethical review with the help of external experts.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it's not just some ethical question. it is a question of taking human life for research purposes. i would therefore like to ask the commissioner very specifically: can you exclude the possibility that a european taxpayer is paying taxpayer money for research which, if it were carried out in his own member state, would be subject to penalties?
the commission. as far as the commission is aware, decree no 5 of 19 may 1945 has not been formally repealed. this decree is one of those that have not had any new effects for a long time. the commission considers it to be obsolete. after 8 may 1946, the following censuses were held in czechoslovakia: on 1.3.1950, 1.3.1961, 1.12.1970, 1.11.1980 and 3.3.1991. the czech republic, which was founded in 1993, conducted a census on 1 march 2001.
i'm not going to tell you. i think this decree is particularly important because it also touches on an immaterial but essential question, namely the so-called national credibility, which is denied collectively to entire ethnic groups who have done something legal after 1929, namely to have committed themselves to a particular language group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would like to ask you specifically whether the czech republic has officially informed you that this decree is no longer in force.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the interdependence of macro-policies and full employment is evident. we need growth above productivity growth to reach full employment and raise the employment rate to the level of other regions of the world. we need full employment to stimulate domestic demand and to generate revenue for the eu countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the current proposal still relies too much on structural reforms. but they can only serve to a limited extent as engines of growth and employment. the implementation of the financial action plan will undoubtedly close some of the productivity gap between the european union and the united states, but only partially. this is why we must aim for a higher level of investment. in the us, investment increases of 4% were possible in the 1990s with strong growth and employment effects. why not in the eu? the main features of economic policy make investment only insufficient. it is progress that i do not want to ignore when all eu member states are expected to invest and want to invest 3% of their gdp in research and development, and when more is also to be invested in human resources. after all, human resources are europe's raw material. but more needs to be invested in education and skills if the knowledgebased society is to become a european reality. the investment should be increased from 21% to 25%. this is particularly true of private investment, which would create the production capacity and jobs that would make this sustainable growth possible over a longer period, but could also organise technological progress and thus in turn contribute to increasing demand. but public investment must also increase. we need investment here, especially in infrastructure measures, which suffered particularly from the consolidation processes in 2001, with a value of 2.3% of gdp, because they were particularly affected. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary discipline is maintained. i think that's worth considering. a final remark: the commission rightly mentions the need for coordination of tax policies. we know that companies are now also criticising the fact that the eu does not have the planning capacity we want in terms of taxation and, above all, in terms of crossborder economic activities. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'common carrier'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to begin by thanking the commission staff and my colleagues in this parliament for their very constructive and expert cooperation. the reports before us are an expression of this cooperation. they form part of the framework necessary for the production of safe, health-friendly food. however, when we are sitting here today at this time discussing measures to improve food safety, the citizens of the european union are sitting in restaurants or at home enjoying food and hardly anyone is asking the question 'is it safe?' in fact, our food is safe, safer than many other places in the world. the commissioner has used the recent crises - and we have been through a lot of them in recent years - to develop a new strategy. i think that is also true, but these crises alone must not lead us to a new food law, because they are over and hardly anyone writes about them anymore. much more importantly, the changes in food production and also the changing consumer behaviour force us to think about how we can bring more safety into food production, because the citizen has different demands and there is also an increasing demand for more safety. despite the many provisions in place, it must be acknowledged that the existing community food law has considerable weaknesses. the individual schemes are each limited to a specific sector but do not follow a uniform approach. the community food law is characterised in particular by significant lack of coherence and legal certainty. these shortcomings are not merely an editorial problem but have a substantial impact, threatening the efficiency and enforcement of food law. the commission's proposal in the white paper is all the more welcome, since it is not so much a new approach to security as a new approach to legislation. for the first time, a general food law with uniform definitions and principles is being proposed without any reservations at community level. this food law is based on a comprehensive and uniform approach from producer to consumer and creates a coherent and transparent network of food law regimes. the consolidation process has also been used to fundamentally improve the legal quality of many regulations, which has been lacking so far. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the context of food hygiene, we need legal bases which, firstly, can be easily applied by the food business operator; secondly, which allow for the exchange of information between the various stages of production; thirdly, which are in line with the conditions of the internal market and therefore applicable in all member states; fourthly, which increase the responsibility of food business operators; and fifthly, which facilitate official controls and guarantee the enforcement of administrative measures. the legal form regulation is essential for this. parliament will not allow any change in this. the consolidation of the 17 directives into four regulations will lead to a closer link between food hygiene, animal health legislation and official controls on foodstuffs, and thus to user-friendly legal bases. this is also the view of the vast majority of the industries concerned. most manufacturers are now international. a regulation provides a uniform framework for action with the same requirements in all european member states and therefore sets fair conditions throughout the european internal market more than a directive. the new food law can only take account of national and regional specificities in exceptional cases. the food hygiene regulation has been substantially amended by the committee with almost 200 amendments, and i believe that the regulation now provides a better basis. many of the changes are based on the text of the regulation on general food hygiene, which has already been adopted. so these are essentially editorial changes. the proposal for a regulation is a common thread that emphasizes the primary responsibility of food manufacturers for the safety of the food they put on the market. the bse crisis, in particular, has shown that we have failed to give primary agricultural production the same responsibility as food business operators along the production chain have long since assumed. i think that the haccp principle is one of them. i am, of course, aware that the haccp principle can be applied only in a few areas of primary production. in plants with larger animal populations, however, so-called critical points can be identified which require constant monitoring. if we are to follow the principle of farm to table, we must also use all the means of self-control in primary production. the commission's proposals do not call for haccp to be applied in primary production, but these regulations lay down general hygiene rules for primary production. this is a completely new chapter in the food hygiene legislation. for example, if a farmer has to keep records of measures taken to control risks, this is the first application of the haccp principle in certain areas. despite high safety standards and perfect controls, production errors cannot be avoided. in order to identify causes, traceability of the products must be ensured. the committee considers that the additional labelling provided for in the commission proposal is not necessary. the eu countries may have different traceability labels, but they all guarantee a complete representation of the production chain. i think that the commissioner has made a very good point of this, and i think that the commissioner has made a very good point of this. to support production processes, the regulation provides guidelines for good practice. in general, these will be sectoral and national guidelines drawn up by many interested parties. the application is of course and parliament is behind it voluntarily. however, if european guidelines are to be drawn up for a particular sector or direction of production, these will be based on a general consensus and will include knowledge of the best practice available in europe. that is why european guidelines should replace sectoral, national or regional guidelines, also because we will then force food producers to apply and introduce exactly these best practices. food production in europe is very diverse. it is necessary that the regulations allow for a certain degree of flexibility. the possibility of derogating from the provisions of those regulations should therefore be provided for. parliament wanted to limit these exemptions to regions with geographical difficulties and supply difficulties, as well as to traditional production methods and the supply of local markets. the procedures for granting derogations should be simple. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's foodstuffs are not contaminated by the contaminants of the products of the same origin. theoretically, it would then be possible to amend all the annexes again one day after the regulations are adopted. such a system is also not in keeping with the spirit of good cooperation between parliament and the commission. the procedure should be different for the regulation on specific hygiene rules. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health and safety of workers is not compromised. we have therefore removed certain areas - definition, authorization of establishments, labelling, etc. - from the annexes and placed them in the article section, which, if it needs to be amended, can only be amended by the legislative procedure. but for the other regulations - i agree - the comitology procedure should apply. the chapter on hunting is one of the main topics of the regulation on specific hygiene rules. the debate in parliament was very heated. we have now put forward a proposal which has also been approved by the commission. we must of course accept that there are national peculiarities, that hunting traditions have developed, and these are now incorporated in the proposals, so that we can actually assume that we can still guarantee wild game meat that is safe for health. in particular, it should also preserve existing traditions. i believe that with these and with the proposals on animal health rules for the production and placing on the market of food of animal origin we have created an important basis for improving food law. i would like to thank mr kindermann in particular for the excellent way in which he has drafted his report. the regulation on food imports is so well presented that i shall spare myself further explanations. the present regulations are, in my view, a good basis for extending the regulation on official food controls. i look forward to it very much, because we want to work on it very quickly.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not the present package of proposals for regulations contains the recasting and simplification of all eu food law. the draft regulation for which i am rapporteur concerns specific animal health rules for foodstuffs of animal origin and their importation from third countries with the aim of preventing the spread of animal diseases in the marketing of these products. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. the aim of the proposed regulation is to make animal health rules more transparent and to consolidate the existing directives into a single regulation. i would like to thank the commission for its willingness to make a proposal to the council and the commission to ensure that the rules are applied uniformly throughout the european union and in third countries. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. the commission has in many cases resorted to the article 11 procedure, i.e. the regulatory procedure with comitology. this is not unusual, nor is it unusual. it is right and important, particularly in the field of disease control, that the commission should be able to react more quickly and better to new scientific findings and unforeseen situations without having to initiate a lengthy legislative procedure each time. in this case, however, the use of the comitology procedure, in which the european parliament is only insufficiently involved, seems to me to be a little too far-reaching. i have therefore made provision for additions, perhaps even clarifications, to the text of the regulation in certain places, setting out certain criteria. firstly, exemptions may be granted only if the disease situation permits it and if the level of protection against animal diseases is not in any way affected. secondly, it must be unannounced and irregular. thirdly, when drawing up the lists of third countries, all additional elements must be taken into account, including the staffing of the control authorities and the reliability of the information provided by the third country authorities. i have also included two new proposals in my report. the first is that both the member states and the authorities of third countries must submit to the commission, on request, a report on the checks they have carried out, indicating in particular the frequency of checks, the nature of the deficiencies and infringements found and the sanctions imposed by the competent authorities. the effectiveness of legal frameworks - we all know this - depends very much on the controls carried out, and such detailed control reports are essential to ensure the effective application of controls in the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. secondly, the commission should draw up a list of categories of possible infringements of this regulation, its implementing rules or safeguard measures and assess whether they require criminal or administrative sanctions by the competent national authorities. the penalties for infringements of the regulation should be set as uniformly as possible for all member states. it cannot be that the same offence has different consequences in member state no 1 than in member state no 2. this problem, which is certainly more urgent in other areas than in the present case, must be tackled in depth. i wanted to make a start here with my proposal, even though the commission has indicated to the committee that such an approach may not be legally practicable at the moment. i am convinced of the need for this, and my colleagues in the committee have confirmed my view. in conclusion, i would like to thank the commission for the constructive cooperation which has been and i hope will continue to be.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the present proposal for a council regulation, which makes the animal health rules more transparent and brings together the existing directives in one text, is, in my view, another step towards simplifying agricultural policy in this field and, above all, towards providing legal justification for the controls of the various activities. i hope that's how it happens. i would like to express my support for the continuation of scientific research into the testing of products of animal origin, for example, for bse and mcs in live animals, and then also for its affordable application. high new technical and organisational standards must be feasible, i.e. affordable. i refer specifically to the import of foodstuffs from third countries. at the same time - and this is my conclusion - the numerous consumer protection organisations must be given the necessary serious support.
the commission has already done so. mr schnellhardt has presented two expert reports which significantly improve the commission's proposals on food hygiene. in future, food manufacturers and food processors will have to document all production and processing steps. this obligation also covers the feed used and the health status of the animals. the eu consumer will in future be able to trace food and its ingredients from the counter to the manufacturer. the glass production chain is thus guaranteed in large enterprises as well as in small and medium-sized enterprises. i would like to make a special mention of the small and mediumsized meat-processing enterprises. in the european union there are about 150 000 butcher shops, with a total of over one million employees and an annual turnover of some eur 60 billion. it is these small farms that ensure local supply and maintain the diversity of products in rural areas. with their skillful craftsmanship, they produce local specialities and thus make a major contribution to the delicacy store europe. close contact with consumers creates confidence in the quality and safety of products. we must therefore pay particular attention to small business structures and create appropriate, practical legal requirements for these companies, which provide training and jobs for many people in europe. i have tabled an amendment with the rapporteur which refers to the so-called one-stop-shop slaughter in butchers' shops, because in addition to the rules for slaughter lines in large slaughterhouses, the reality of small craft shops must also be taken into account. the single-site slaughter may be carried out in a hygienically sound manner with due care and expertise. i therefore ask for your support for amendment no 133.
- mr president, i have to go. madrid is a meeting of heads of state and government. but i would like to point out at this point, with all modesty, that the european parliament has had very close relations with latin american parliamentarians for many years - by the way, the oldest relationship the european parliament has with other parliaments is with the latin american parliaments, dating back to the early 1970s. the development of latin america in the coming years and decades will also depend very much on relations with europe. i think we're underestimating our capabilities. i would like to stress at this point that relations with latin america must include above all a scientific, technical and industrial element, just as we have with the united states - why not with latin america too? i would remind you that two of europe's major scientific institutions are in latin america: eso, the european southern observatory in chile, which has helped to give chile a huge boost to astrophysics, and our space centre in kourou, because french guiana is on latin american soil. i also call for an intensive industrial dialogue involving european and latin american industry. this is something that started with mercosur, and could be extended to all of latin america. mr patten was right to mention kyoto, that is, climate policy. if i had time, i could calculate what carbon trading could mean for latin america in the future. the president is signaling me that i don't have that time. if i had it, i would charge you for it, and you'd be amazed at the possibilities it has. in short, we have many opportunities to engage with latin america. we must use it, not just talk about it! (applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. mr president of the council, mr commissioner! the final word of my colleague, i think, is an excellent introduction to my speech. we need more strategic thinking and vision. we are dealing with a very, very difficult situation. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. i have concentrated on the economic impact study for the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy and i have come to the following conclusion - my colleagues have supported me in this and i would also like to thank my colleague james elles for including this in the report. in essence, we have assumed that the transatlantic market already exists. you can check that for a lot of sectors. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. we're basically assuming that we're competitors. on the other hand, we are very aware that we have a great closeness and that we are partners. but this is very often reflected in relatively little political action. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. this should also be a consideration for strategic planning. the consequences are significant. we find that frustration is becoming more and more common among us. the alienation is increasing. we are seeing a closure, a return to national policies - essentially by the americans, but we should be fair, we are not entirely free of it either - an increase in so-called american and european values. this is also the reason why there is an increasing number of trade disputes which are a sign of these problems. the question is, what can be done? my colleague james elles was right when he said that we need an update of the new transatlantic agenda and the transatlantic economic partnership. how do you do that? i think we need a radical change of paradigm. we need to get away from watching each other. we can achieve this paradigm shift by three methods: first, a sectoral analysis of economic interdependence; second, a strengthening of the bilateral methods of conflict resolution and the early warning system, which are ancillary to the wto procedure; and third, further convergence. the commission has already set this out at the summit in the form of a so-called positive agenda, and the council has confirmed this. we in parliament will welcome that. i'm not going to go into details now. you'll find the details in the report. i hope that the commission and the council will support this.
the council has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels. i believe that his reflections on the current state of our relations with the united states, and in particular on the transatlantic agenda and the future of our relations, deserve careful study by the commission and the council. it is clear that circumstances have arisen, as mr elles said, which have changed our relations with the united states in recent years and that there are also certain attitudes in the united states which have in some way departed from certain common principles which we had as our own in the transatlantic agenda. but those are, in my view, interpretations about the intensity of a relationship that we wish to be very important. in fact, relations with the united states, regardless of whether we have to think about deepening them, are already a very important reality today. transatlantic relations are, in the context of the union's external relations, probably the most solid pillar of relations between the european union and a third country. the european union and the united states held a summit in washington just two weeks ago, and the results were certainly excellent. both sides maintained a remarkably constructive spirit across the range of issues discussed, thus underlining what i had said earlier: that regardless of some frustrations on our part, generated by our aspiration to maintain a more intense relationship with the united states, the reality is that the intensity and depth of transatlantic relations make the united states a privileged partner of the union at this time. the fight against terrorism, joint efforts to resolve regional conflicts, especially in the middle east - let us not forget, for example, that it is significant that, immediately after the summit, there was a meeting of the so-called quartet to resolve the problem of the middle east - the drawing up and discussion of a positive agenda on trade, precisely to insist on the most important aspect of our understanding and not to be playing around with our disagreements, some small ones on trade which, by the way, do not even affect 5% of the volume of trade between the united states and europe. all of this is a good example of this transatlantic relationship based on common values and on the close cooperation which president bush himself described as unique and important. from a global perspective, and as was stated at the press conference following the summit, the main conclusions to be drawn from this meeting are the following, and i would like to put them forward because i believe that this is the real expression of the current situation in our relations with the united states: firstly, the density and importance of relations between the european union and the united states in economic terms is undoubtedly outstanding, since together we account for almost half of the world economy - 40% - of which, as i said before, only 5% is disputed, and it is the largest bilateral relationship in the world today in terms of trade and investment, and also the importance of these relations in political terms with the renewed impetus we have given jointly to the fight against terrorism. secondly, it was once again clear that there are common challenges and strategies which make the european union and the united states strategic partners, with terrorism naturally highlighted, as i said before, with the launch of negotiations for extradition agreements and judicial assistance in criminal matters, a mandate which was approved by the justice and home affairs council on 25 april, and the strengthening of cooperation on the freezing of the assets of terrorist organisations and in the field of non-proliferation. just before the summit, the new list of such organisations was drawn up to demonstrate our commitment to continue the fight against such organisations. thirdly, from the point of view of foreign policy, close cooperation and consultation on regional conflicts and reconstruction processes were stressed. the agreement on security in the middle east on the principles of ending violence, the recognition of states, the recognition of the palestinian authority as a legitimate interlocutor and support for the mitchell and tenet plans are clear examples of this concertation. at the same time, the improvement of the situation in the balkans was noted, with examples of us-european cooperation in areas such as macedonia, bosnia-herzegovina, serbia and montenegro; the effectiveness of close cooperation in the reconstruction of afghanistan and in the achievement of a political solution in the framework of the bonn conference. fourthly, both sides expressed their willingness to respect the rules of the world trade organisation in all trade issues and supported the inspiring principle of the positive agenda and the qualitative leap which entails the identification of areas of cooperation for concrete future actions. fifthly, in keeping with the above line, the willingness to cooperate in other forums and international processes was expressed, such as the doha agenda and the road to johannesburg, the conference on sustainable development. finally, it was noted that all these avenues of cooperation have been affected by internal changes in the union, such as the enlargement process or the establishment of the union's external security and defence policy, with a clear radiation effect that has been translated in a noticeable way into an intensification of relations with the united states. these, mr president, are the main conclusions to be drawn from the meeting which, as is customary in these cases, took place in a restricted session format, preceded by a plenary session devoted to the more political subjects, followed by a subsequent lunch in which the commercial subjects were discussed. without losing sight of the ideas we have just outlined, let me, ladies and gentlemen, analyse in detail the specific content of the negotiations on the various items on the agenda. first, there is the fight against terrorism. as has been said on other occasions, this is a central and priority issue for both sides, particularly after the events of 11 september. this chapter dealt with the draft agreement on extradition and judicial assistance in criminal matters which was reached after the mandate was approved - as i have already mentioned - by the jha council on 25 april and which was very well received by the north american side. secondly, there is the fight against the financing of terrorism. reference was made to the point on the extension of the lists of terrorist organisations in an attempt to harmonise the contents between the european union and the united states, and to the updating of union measures to implement un security council resolution 1373. this parliament is certainly aware that the presidency has made a considerable effort on this point. several meetings of the clearing house and an extraordinary coreper were called to deal exclusively with this issue and finally the formal adoption of the enlargement of the european union list was achieved on the same day of the summit. the united states was, unsurprisingly, receptive to this new effort, although it expressed some disappointment at the non-inclusion of hamas and hezbollah on the list. the two sides expressed their mutual commitment to intensify efforts to achieve greater consistency in the subject of lists in the light of future amendments. finally, there is the question of non-proliferation. american interest in this area was focused on the so-called 10+10, or "ten plus ten over ten", a ten-year program, estimated at ten billion dollars, aimed at reducing russia's radioactive and chemical material. the united states stressed the importance of the role which the european union could play in this matter, taking into account its relations with third countries such as iran. as part of the negotiating mandate for the trade and cooperation agreement which the union intends to conclude with the country, the european union has undertaken to include non-proliferation as one of the issues to be discussed in the political dialogue. the european union also took the opportunity to announce measures to strengthen multilateral instruments. secondly, the series of regional cooperation issues of mutual interest which were discussed at the summit. it's the middle east, the balkans, russia and afghanistan. the european union is also calling for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information and communication networks. on behalf of the united states, president bush and secretary of state powell recalled that the content of the presidential speech of 4 april was still alive, but that he had to acknowledge the constructive spirit that saudis, jordanians and other moderate arabs were showing. the need to rebuild palestinian infrastructure was reiterated by the high representative, mr solana, and commissioner patten, who also recalled the conclusions of the last ad hoc contact committee in oslo on the need to avoid a security vacuum in the palestinian territories. it is also worth noting that the high representative, mr solana, recalled the injustice of the accusations of anti-semitism by american public opinion against europeans. president bush has accepted the injustice of these attacks. it should also be recalled that the quartet, as i mentioned earlier, met on the sidelines of the summit, in a meeting which was described by the united states as a milestone, thus recognising the importance of international consultation in promoting a negotiated solution to the conflict in question. there was therefore a fundamental agreement on the importance of developing the political, economic and security bands in parallel, and both sides showed their determination to keep up the pressure on the two sides involved. the united states expressed its appreciation for the efforts made by the european union in this area and expressed that it would always act on the principle of caution to avoid calling into question american credibility in the area. in short, the washington declaration reiterates and reinforces the madrid declaration of 10 april. the european union also welcomed the progress made in the implementation of the un security council resolution on the situation in the middle east. the eu also reiterated its readiness to take on the amberfox operation in the republic of macedonia and the us welcomed the joint initiatives in this area, adding at the same time its interest in putting pressure on serbia to cooperate with the hague tribunal. the exchange of views on russia took place in the context of the us-russia summits of 24-26 may, the nato-russia summit of 28 may and the eu-russia summit of 29 may. the european union stressed the positive aspects of the political dialogue with russia, while addressing politically sensitive issues such as belarus and moldova, and also expressed concern about the human rights situation in chechnya. the united states welcomed the way in which the consultation process in this area was developing, as it gave added strength to president putin's western orientation, and expressed its commitment to reaching an agreement with russia before the next summit on nuclear arms reduction. we have already seen from yesterday's news that this agreement has been able to materialize. the european union added a mention here of the economic dimension and the steps russia is taking towards achieving full market economy status, a prerequisite for its membership of the world trade organisation, not in any case expected before 2004. the two sides reaffirmed their common position on afghanistan, stressing the importance of bilateral cooperation in the reconstruction of the country and acknowledging the important economic contribution made by the european union to that end. the principle of avoiding insistence on the current disputes, which often only obscure the importance of the great economic link between the european union and the united states, was maintained in the economic and trade issues. we are referring first to the doha agenda, to the summit that took place in monterrey and then to the one that will take place in johannesburg. this point was briefly discussed in order to confirm the mutual willingness to agree positions within the multilateral framework of the monetary fund, in accordance with the presidency's approach. references were also made to the nepad initiative as a topic to be discussed at the next g8 summit in kananaskis, and the possibility offered by johannesburg of developing joint cooperation projects on issues such as agriculture and drinking water. more specifically, as regards trade disputes, the exchange showed a willingness on the part of the united states to negotiate which can be translated, in concrete terms, into its commitment to the rules of the world trade organisation, in particular in the foreign sales corporation and restrictions on the import of clementines. as regards steel, it is already known that in this dispute it is envisaged that a negotiated solution on compensation may be reached in the medium term, without prejudice to the complaint which the european union will make to the world trade organisation. both sides made their position clear and once again expressed their willingness to comply with the rules of the organization. in any event, the european union has not failed to defend its intention to pursue compensation as a key instrument for protecting its rights. with regard to the foreign sales corporation, thanks to the favourable climate created by the delay in the panel's decision for june, this point was dealt with in a positive tone and bush undertook to change domestic us tax legislation to bring it into line with the world trade organisation. the united states also maintained its commitment to shortening the procedures on clementines in order to avoid, as far as possible, any damage to the next marketing year. it is clear that in those days the new law that has just been passed, which increases aid to american farmers, had not yet appeared, and this is another issue that may be the subject of confrontation between the united states and europe. at a time when we are all committed to reducing agricultural subsidies in the run-up to the doha round, it does not seem that the united states is sending a very positive signal, but i think that we will have to draw our own conclusions in this respect in our negotiating position in the doha round. the positive agenda includes all the subjects on which there is a basic agreement between the two sides and on which there is scope for medium-term agreements. the following points were included in principle: mutual access to procurement on the stock market, common approach on organic farming standards and controls and development of a common prototype for electronic customs. i would like to conclude, mr president, by reiterating the presidency's positive and far-reaching assessment of the summit between the european union and the united states held in washington on 2 december. the transatlantic relations are important, we are concerned about them, but the reality is that they now have - and i believe they will have in the future - a preeminent place in the whole of the union's external relations.
commission. – mr president, it is exactly a year since i presented to this parliament the commission’s communication on reinforcing the transatlantic relationship. few could have imagined then the horror of the terrorist attacks on the united states of 11 september , which have dominated international affairs and have greatly influenced the relationship between the united states and the european union ever since. those attacks brought home the vulnerability of open and democratic societies. but they also strongly underlined their enduring strength. the attacks demonstrated the extent to which europe and america are united by the values we share, as the scale of the outpouring of grief and sympathy in european countries in the weeks after 11 september made very clear. europe has displayed practical support as well as emotional solidarity. our cooperation with the us in the months after 11 september in the campaign against terrorism testifies to that. we have made significant progress in the field of police and judicial cooperation – through the us/europol agreement signed last september, the mandate for a us/europol data protection agreement and for a mutual assistance/extradition agreement, and through the decision to adopt a european arrest warrant. we have worked together to strengthen border controls, and we have made progress within the international civil aviation organisation and the international maritime organisation to strengthen aviation and maritime security. we have worked together to seize terrorist assets. the european union has played a full part in stitching together the coalition against terrorism. european troops are heavily engaged in afghanistan, both as the largest component of the international security assistance force, as well as in combat operations. and the european union is making a formidable contribution towards the reconstruction of afghanistan, which i am looking forward to seeing myself when i visit that country next week. on all these matters, we are working closely with the united states, and to good effect. we are showing how much we can achieve when we operate together with each other, and in partnership with other nations. we are doing so too in the balkans and, more recently, within the so-called quartet to try to seek a peaceful solution in the middle east. all of that demonstrates that the world is a safer and better place when the european union and the world’s most formidable power work in harmony. but, as honourable members are well aware, there has been for some time in washington a debate about whether the us – now so powerful – should focus on its own rather narrowly defined interests, the so-called unilateralist approach, or whether it should continue to give a lead to multilateralist efforts, at the head of the international community’s concerted drive to deal with common problems. this is not a new debate, though it has perhaps grown in intensity. i only want to say this about a debate whose existence is not an exaggerated figment of our european imagination. europe will necessarily be on the multilateralist side in this debate. that is in the nature of how we see the world and of our experience. no one has to apologise for that. but when we disagree over what seem to us to be unilateralist policies, what is the correct european approach? not to keep quiet, in my opinion. but, equally, not to stand around on the sidelines whingeing. where we disagree with the us – for example on their decision not to ratify the kyoto protocol – we should take the lead ourselves and press ahead with ratification, encouraging others to do so as well. similarly, we are opposed to the recent us decision on the international criminal court. but opposition is not enough, we will work hard to make the court a success. i hope that we will not get the disagreements out of proportion and that we can move to a relationship in which we are better able to celebrate the considerable areas in which the eu and the united states are working as one, and to find better ways both to manage our disagreements, and, where we fetch up agreeing to disagree, to do so in as sensible and as reasonable a manner as possible. it helps, in that context, to take a balanced view of events. for example, our disagreements on trade sometimes seem to overshadow our relationship. europe and the us are the largest trading partners. our conflicts account for a fraction of total our trade. the trade flow increases, but the number of disputes does not. too little attention is paid to the close cooperation we enjoy in protecting and developing the international trading system. eu-us cooperation was crucial to the success of doha in launching a new wto round focused on growth in developing countries. our cooperation to help developing countries has gone beyond trade; we have both substantially increased development assistance; we have agreed on a financing for development strategy in the "monterrey consensus"; we are now working very closely in preparation for the johannesburg summit on sustainable development. i hope we can cooperate as well there, too. i will not repeat pascal lamy’s recent words in this chamber on trade issues, but would only like to remind the house that the transatlantic economic partnership (tep) framework has continued to do what was set up to achieve. the partnership aims at preventing disputes from escalating and at accelerating activity in areas of mutual interest. these are precisely the results of our recent cooperation, in particular: first, the launching of a positive economic agenda; second, the reasonable management and prevention of disputes in the framework of the early warning mechanism (recent cases include spanish clementines and hushkits); third, a firm commitment at the highest level in the us on the necessary compliance with the wto decision on foreign sales corporations (fscs). it is worth keeping these points in mind – while not glossing over our profound disagreements on issues like steel and our new concerns about the impact of the new farm bill. i can assure parliament that we will continue to deal with the steel dispute and other disagreements entirely according to the wto rules and procedures. we do not intend to lose the high ground on these issues. i do not believe, against this background, that the appalling events of last autumn call for an entirely new framework for transatlantic dialogue and cooperation. the 1995 new transatlantic agenda (nta) is still valid. it has given us a strategy for the broadening of our relationship, which generally has been very successful. what has been lacking is a strategy to make our cooperation as results-oriented as we would like it to be. to establish such a strategy and to streamline an overly bureaucratic process was the objective of last year’s communication. the approach we suggested, which aimed at more stringent priority-setting, was endorsed not only by member states, but also by our us counterparts. i might add that – ironically, perhaps – counter-terrorism was one of the priorities identified at last year’s summit. this is not a structure set in stone, the priorities are reviewed on a regular basis, and it does not limit the overall scope of our dialogue. the positive economic agenda, which was agreed at the summit in washington early this month, is another good example of this approach. the report before us calls for the transatlantic dialogues to be strengthened and for a greater involvement for the european parliament and the us congress in the nta process. i am a strong believer in the role of parliament and of civil society. the commission has been supporting the transatlantic dialogues and listening to their recommendations. we are discussing with our us colleagues how to re-launch the transatlantic environment dialogue and how to give greater impetus to the consumer and business dialogues. we have been working closely with the european parliament in the past and will continue to do so. the transatlantic legislators’ dialogue and the inter-parliamentary meetings are important instruments and i would certainly encourage greater use of them. i will not add to the very full report on the recent eu/us summit by the presidency, save to note with pleasure that president bush promised to seek the necessary changes to us legislation to comply with the wto ruling on foreign sales corporation. and i emphasise once again that we were able to focus some discussion on those areas, like the balkans, like the middle east, like afghanistan, where we are working very closely together to produce a safer world. let me make one final point. occasionally, when an important relationship in international affairs hits a few problems, the reaction of critics is to say that what is required is a new vision or a new strategy. i have to say that i do not think that the problems we face in managing the european-american relationship result from a lack of vision. we have a pretty clear vision that we are better off on both sides of the atlantic, and the world is safer and more prosperous, when we cooperate and give the international community a clear lead in confronting the challenges of a new century. there are always likely to be problems, even in an important partnership, when national interests collide. national interest has not simply been erased in today’s world. but those differences will be magnified if we start to disagree too frequently about how "national" the national interest really is. it is our profound judgment in europe, the product of our history and experience, and not of some flabby prejudice, that the national interest is invariably pursued best through international cooperation, and we should not be ashamed to make that point loudly and clearly. one last point: mr elles has done a great deal to promote, to deepen our transatlantic dialogue and our transatlantic relationship. but i see from him an amendment on the order paper which causes, i am bound to say, and i am not a notoriously thin-skinned old hack, a slight frisson in the commissioner for external relations. the honourable member deplores the absence of strategic thinking from the commission. the honourable member's profundity as a strategist may be greater than mine and it may even be greater than dr kissinger's,(laughter)but i just want to say one thing to him: the steel dispute with the united states is not a result of a lack of strategic thinking on the part of the european commission. the lack of agreement on the kyoto protocol is not the result of a lack of strategic thinking on the part of the european commission. the farm bill, and i direct the honourable member's attention to this current edition of the economist magazine, is not a result of a lack of strategic thinking on the part of the commission. the biological weapons disagreement; the disagreement over small arms; the disagreement over the international criminal court are not a result of a lack of strategic thinking on the part of the commission. let me say something else. the view which is very strongly felt in the united states that europe does not do enough to defend itself, it does not spend enough on its own security – that is not a result of a lack of strategic thinking on the part of the commission. i stood here in this parliament a few weeks ago and asked whether there was anybody in the chamber who would tell me that their political party would fight an election, pledged to the sort of increase in defence spending that president bush recently announced. even the party to which mr elles and i are proud to belong would not commit itself to that. it is no problem of the european commission's making. where i agree passionately with the honourable member, is that the relationship between the european union and the united states matters profoundly. i deplore, as he does, anti-americanism. i deplore, as he does, those who seek to define their europeanness in terms of how hostile they are to the united states. if mr elles would like to see a development of that argument, i commend to him next saturday's edition of the guardian and the review by the commissioner for external relations of a recent book by will hutton. i equally deplore the mirror image of that: the visceral contempt that one sometimes reads about and hears expressed in the united states about europe. the relationship between the european union and the united states is of enormous importance to the future of the world. maybe some would argue that geostrategically the relationship between china and the united states is going to be more important in this century – over a fifth of humanity and the world's leading power – but our relationship is also important. what makes the relationship so difficult is that we are not just dealing with a superpower, we are dealing with what a recent us ambassador to london, ray seitz, has called a "super duper power". a "super duper power" which was responsible for 40% of the world's growth between 1995 and 2000. for all of us, managing this relationship with the world's greatest power is going to be enormously important. i do not think that we, in the commission, show an absence of strategic thinking in considering the importance of that relationship. but the problem is today that there are rather too many issues on which we disagree, and we want to work to reduce them and ensure that where we do disagree, we in the european union can fulfil our responsibilities of international leadership without that aggravating our relationship with our friends in the united states. (applause)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank not only the two speakers but also the two rapporteurs very warmly for their work. i would like to thank them because the transatlantic relationship is at a very difficult stage. we have to see that this community of values has been the most successful alliance in the history of mankind. it has secured and enforced welfare, democracy and human rights not only for europe and north america, but also in many other parts of the world, and it has contributed too much of a positive in this world. but we must now realize that after this triumph, some things do not work like that. on the one hand, there is the arrogance of unilateralism, which leads to difficulties, and on the other hand, there is weakness on our part, namely our inability to make a contribution in the military field, and this creates difficulties which we see every day and which have been partly listed here. the international criminal court, kyoto, trade issues or the fact that in the context of the response to the aftermath of 11 september nato is looking like a hollowed-out building, all these are causes for great concern and we must also see that it is right that progress is being made in the middle east quartet, but that we have not yet taken action together in jerusalem and ramallah, and i think that this is the appropriate starting point. i think that the approach of solving individual problems, such as the question of hushkits or bananas, cannot be the decisive starting point, because this is a race that you can never win, because once you have solved one problem, two new ones will come along. that is to say, this approach alone does not get us any further, and that is why i am so grateful to the rapporteur for proposing in his proposals, in particular, structural improvements, that we open the debate in a new direction, that we develop structural relations with the united states beyond nato, as was partly envisaged in the early and mid-1990s in the context of the transatlantic agenda. the question is whether we can find solutions involving bilateral dispute settlement mechanisms in the area of trade without disrupting multilateralism, whether we can discuss these issues in the context of the transatlantic market place, or whether we can conclude a treaty between the united states and the european union, a framework for how we can improve relations here, because such a treaty has the inestimable advantage of involving the american congress. the european union has a treaty with almost every country in the world, but we have none with our closest ally, the united states of america. we are moving from administration to administration, knowing full well that it is always only half the game and that the american congress has a great importance in this game, and that is why we must find a framework for the overall involvement of american policy, a structural frame of reference, and i hope that the council and the commission will take more intensive initiatives than perhaps has been the case recently. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. the voting list for amendment no 40 states that if it is adopted, amendments nos 1, 2 and paragraphs 16 and 17 will be repealed. we do not agree with that. we believe that the second part of amendment no 1 is entirely compatible with amendment no 40. it is important that we vote on the second part because it says:
in writing. - (de) i welcome the commission's differentiated approach, which aims to guarantee a high level of health protection by means of specific hygiene rules in the field of foodstuffs. the fact that these rules also apply to game meat offered commercially and in large quantities to consumers cannot but be consistent. however, it is essential to distinguish between the commercial distribution and the private consumption of wild game slaughtered in small quantities. a hunter who offers small quantities of wild game after the hunt or who distributes it in local direct sales cannot and should not fulfil the same obligations as a large meat processing operation. as regards the special situation of hunters, practical solutions must be found. the new rules are just and desirable, but private hunters must be excluded from the regulation. our hunters already have a thorough knowledge of the hygiene and pathology of wild game. the trained hunter always bears full responsibility for health protection when distributing wild game and will continue to do so in the future. the european parliament's committee on the environment has adopted several amendments which provide for flexibility in the marketing of game and game meat without compromising food safety. i would ask you to support these amendments in plenary.
in writing. - (de) due to an error, some proposals for separate votes or for votes in parts, which were to be tabled on behalf of my group, could not be tabled in time. the proposal for a separate oral vote of three motions, tabled by our coordinator, was not accepted. i would therefore like to state, as rapporteur, that i reject amendments nos 4, 5 and 17 and that, as regards proposal 11, i support only the end, namely the wording 'the commission shall inform the competent authorities, the member states and the european parliament of the results of the checks carried out' as a supplement to the commission's original text. i support proposition 16 without the words "through the early warning system". however, since there are other, much more important amendments in the report, i naturally supported the proposals voted in block and the legislative resolution, even though i do not agree with the content of all of them.
the council. - mr president, we are entering a completely different subject and we will have to adapt our mental chip to the new situation. i would like to briefly involve the honourable members in two matters. the first concerns a report which i had the honour of drawing up on behalf of the council, with the aim of examining whether, before the completion of the whole process of reform of the european union - above all institutional reforms - the council could function more effectively, of course within the legal and legal frameworks which exist today and at the expense of what the convention and, later, the intergovernmental conference itself might say. the proposals which have been on the table and which are being analysed at the moment, so that some of them can be adopted at the seville european council, are very simple and easy. the first would involve a change in the functioning of the european council. this, as you know, has a functioning which, in my opinion, is not the one it should have. the european council was created to be the driving force behind the major political strategies of the european union and therefore it should have a more agile, simpler and more targeted management mechanism. today the european council has agendas which are overloaded and which the heads of government themselves have no time to prepare. these heads of government spend a very important part of their time approving conclusions from a huge number of pages - sometimes more than 60 - which are very difficult to write and the effort put into their preparation is probably not commensurate with the number of people who read them. we must therefore do everything possible to ensure that the european council functions in a more agile and rational way, as a governing council operates in most or all countries of the european union, with well-prepared agendas and focused on decision-making in those councils that require it. this does not require major institutional changes: all that is needed is the political will to do so. we should also try - and that is my suggestion - to hold european councils in at least three different forms: a european council for well-prepared decisions, with a clear agenda and in which decisions could, in my view, be taken, even by qualified majority in the future; a second council which would be more of a monographic nature, that is, in which the heads of government would concentrate on one part or element of the great political life that is europe and in which they would not only try to give instructions but also, if possible, practical solutions which could help the european union to move forward; and thirdly, some european councils which would be more informal, where the leaders of the european union could sit around the fireplace - although there is no fireplace but an immense table - and discuss the issues of importance from the point of view of the present and the near future of the european union. i am sorry that we have not been able to reflect more deeply on some of the major issues which may have more to do with the future than with the present. this being said about the european council, the preparation of the european council can be discussed later. it is up to the council to decide which council to prepare and with what characteristics. until now, as you know, the tradition has been that the general affairs council, which is made up of the foreign ministers of the various countries that make up the european union, was responsible for this. but these ministers have an increasingly busy, dense agenda on issues that are strictly related to the foreign and security policy of the european union. if you look at the agendas, you will see that they are becoming more and more loaded and the question arises whether the general affairs council, in its present structure and composition, can devote sufficient time to the horizontal issues which are ultimately the ones that go to the european council. there are many solutions. i will not point to any one in particular: i suggested three or four which are now being discussed, but i do think that, in one way or another, we should have to choose between the separation of the councils or the separation of the sessions - it cannot be the same council with different sessions - the issues which have to do strictly with foreign and security policy, which are many, and those issues which have to do with the preparation of the european council's agenda. in the end, these issues are not prepared with the intensity that is required for the european council to be the effective body that we all want. there can therefore be two or three models of council: one in which there is a separation between a general affairs council whose main function is the preparation of the european council, which will represent an increasing workload; it could also be that the general affairs council itself has a formation of general affairs proper, where each government could send the person who contributes most effectively to the preparation of the european council, depending on the issues, and another configuration that would be strictly devoted to foreign and security policy issues. the third point raised in the report is one which will be dealt with by the convention and, in the end, by the intergovernmental conference itself. but it seems to me, mr president, that this is a subject on which we must start thinking. it is a difficult subject, no doubt, and it changes some fundamental element of our tradition in the european union, which is the concept of the rotating presidency every six months. in my long political life, which is becoming too long, in the european union, i have already chaired the european union twice as a minister and now i am watching this presidency from another position. i honestly believe that as the number of countries increases and international life becomes more complicated, it will become more difficult to maintain a rotating presidency every six months. in the early days of the european union, when we were basically dealing with internal problems that affected only the countries of the european union, we could do it, in that rotational way, every six months. as the union is assuming many more responsibilities, not only for us - for our countries - but also for third countries, i believe that the agility, the maintenance of certain common positions and the tenacity in defending certain elements of our own policy make it very difficult, if there is no adaptation in the presidency model, to achieve all those results which you repeat again and again in parliament that can be achieved. i know that this is a very difficult subject and that there are countries for whom the essence, or part of the essence, of the feeling of being part of the union lies in the fact that, every certain period of time, they have six months of presidency. i understand that, but all the countries should also bear in mind that when we are twenty countries, we will have to wait a long time before we can have the presidency again. so perhaps the value of holding a six-month presidency every so often is less valuable when the time taken for a country to move from one presidency to another is many years. however, i have only mentioned this as a personal reflection, because it is something that the convention will certainly have to deal with, as of course with the other issues, and which will ultimately have to be settled by the intergovernmental conference. the fourth issue to which i think we should devote some time from my point of view - which is why i put it in writing, so that it can be discussed - is the issue of the transparency of the council in general, but, very particularly, at the times when it acts as a legislator. i think we must think about how to involve public opinion more closely when the council acts as legislator; this is also a matter which should only be dealt with at the convention and subsequently at the intergovernmental conference, but i do think it is important that we create a certain atmosphere or culture so that sooner or later, and the sooner the better, this kind of approach will come to pervade the collective life of the european union. but, returning to the two fundamental issues, for which neither a convention nor an intergovernmental conference is needed, but only political will, the will to do things, i believe that more effective preparation and management of the european council, more focus on the fundamental issues, more rigorous analysis, more solid, more serious and more effective preparation, can be achieved without waiting for tomorrow. if there were political will today, it could be launched today, because nothing prevents it - the treaties do not prevent it - and it would not change the fundamental functioning of the european union in any way. this is, ladies and gentlemen, mr president, the kind of work we are engaged in at the moment. i have presented a first report in barcelona, as i said, which is very brief and deals with these issues in an almost schematic way. today the presidency - together with the secretariat team - is contacting the different capitals to see if there is any possibility that between now and the end of june, when the european council meets in seville, a consensus can be reached on some of these matters which strictly require the political will of the 15 heads of government sitting around the table, together with that of the commission. and that is very succinctly, ladies and gentlemen, what we are working on at the moment. there are many other things to be done in the reform of the council, which will be, without any doubt, on the agenda of the convention and on the agenda of the intergovernmental conference. we shall now have time to discuss them and, if possible, to reach agreements which will encourage a more flexible institution which can tackle the issues in a more rational and effective way in a europe which, fortunately, is new because the world is new; a better europe because the world is better.
commission. - mr president, mr secretary-general of the council, ladies and gentlemen, all the opinion polls on europe which we are analysing show that in the eyes of the citizens our institutions are very complex, too complex, not transparent, too distant. i think that this complexity, at least in part, must be borne by each of our institutions and explained, because this complexity is the price to be paid for a united europe which is not at the same time a uniform europe. this does not mean that for the rest, which is not nothing, there is no progress to be made, no changes to be made, especially at a time when we are about to put the functioning of the european union at great risk with 30 countries around the table - 25 at first - instead of 15. we know well, as javier solana has said, that essential reforms will require an amendment to the treaties. there have already been amendments, but they were far from sufficient, to say the least. this means that if we are to succeed this time, we must first discuss the union's tasks: that is what we are doing in the convention. this is the job of the convention on the future of the union. other reforms can, however, be carried out within the current legal framework, simply by changing habits or practices, if the will exists. as regards the european commission, on whose behalf i speak, we have, under the impetus of president prodi, embarked on a series of internal reforms. we have launched a fairly broad programme of administrative reforms which affect the working methods of all our departments. as for the council, it has made its own reflection, initially on the basis of a report whose recommendations, made in 1999, have so far not been followed up. the great merit of the report presented by javier solana, it seems to me, is that it has given a very concrete and even educational boost to the debate and, as he himself has said, has provided, already in barcelona and soon in seville, a basis for generating political will at the level of heads of state and government. these basic documents recall the need for more structured programming of the union's initiatives at the level of the presidency, and note the need for better horizontal coordination of the various council configurations. they envisage a european council focused on its role as a political impetus and, finally, they recognise the need for greater transparency in legislative work. this debate is very important to the commission. ladies and gentlemen, your assembly is making a very constructive and substantial contribution to this, thanks to the work of your rapporteurs, mrs maij-weggen and minister jacques poos. on behalf of the commission, i would simply like to express our support for four aspects of the debate on the reform of the council. firstly, we are in favour of introducing improvements to the council's functioning as soon as possible and wherever possible. the commission supports the council's intention to implement in the near future all possible initiatives which do not require amendments to the treaties, leaving it to the convention to draw up more comprehensive and definitive proposals for the future institutional system of the european union. secondly, we are in favour of the principles of coherence, efficiency and transparency on which the solana report seeks to base the reform of the council. as the commission has already had the opportunity to stress in the white paper on governance, each of our institutions must of course focus on its core tasks. but reform of the council is not only a necessity for the council itself. it is also a necessity for the other institutions and for the union itself. as regards the council's refocusing on its essential functions, i note in passing a convergence between the conclusions of the barcelona european council, the commission's proposals and those which parliament expresses in its resolutions, including those which you are going to adopt at the end of this debate. the council, for example, must organise itself differently when it legislates, with open debates and public votes. i have nothing to add to what i said to your house when we discussed the poos report last october on the subject of a possible legislative council. thirdly, i would say yes, on behalf of the commission, to what i would call the rediscovery of the community method because it alone offers us the chance of solving certain difficulties now. for example, one of the objectively important and sensitive issues concerning the functioning of the council is the rotation of the presidencies, which javier solana mentioned earlier. there are two ways of doing this: one way involves, in order to stabilise the presidencies, an amendment to the treaties, and then another way which would not require any amendment. as regards the second hypothesis, i would observe that continuity of the council's work and consistency in the programming of successive presidencies can be achieved by the classic dynamic: the commission proposes, the european parliament and the council deliberate. the annual political strategy presented by the commission will thus enable the council and parliament to engage in a genuine and stable dialogue on the political priorities and work programme for the coming year for the first time this year. we also support the idea of a council composition dealing with horizontal questions, without amending the treaties. we support this idea, which would lead to such training being included in the initial mission of the general affairs council, namely the coordination of the council's specialised training and, above all, the preparation of the european council. let us, ladies and gentlemen, rely on coreper, which must once again become the traditional channel for preparing council meetings. finally, i would like to conclude with javier solana on this point: we are saying yes to more transparency. this is now an obligation thanks to regulation 1049/2001 and the measures that parliament, the council and the commission have already taken and will take in the near future on access to preparatory texts. the community legislative process will become more readable. however, many documents are already available. the main aim is to help citizens to find the information they are looking for easily, more easily. a brochure jointly published by our three institutions should soon be available to help them do so. we shall achieve even greater transparency by giving the maximum publicity to the council's deliberations, particularly when it is legislating. that is the spirit in which we have welcomed javier solana's report, with its innovative and pragmatic proposals, and, of course, as mr solana himself has said on several occasions, in the knowledge that much of the progress, reforms and improvements will depend on the existence of an immediate political will at the level of the european council and, a little later, on the existence of a political will within the convention and then within the future intergovernmental conference, when we will have to talk about more fundamental and more substantial reforms.
- mr president, mr secretary-general, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to thank secretary-general solana - and of course the commissioner - but especially the secretary-general, because we generally agree with the commissioner, and thank him for clearly setting the pace of the reform process in the council. i would also like to say a very warm word of appreciation to you, mr secretary-general solana, for the almost inhuman task you are performing in the world as high representative - particularly in the middle east - and as secretary-general. it's only because you're this extraordinary person that you can do this. i do not want to start an institutional debate about your office, but i cannot imagine that there could be any other personality besides you who could endure this double burden as you have to endure it, and who also manages it so brilliantly. (applause from the centre) i would like to thank you very much for making these proposals. it is, as commissioner barnier has said, our common task to reform our institutions, in this case the council. it is particularly important here to distinguish between the general council, the council as legislator - that is the most important thing - then perhaps the council which prepares the meetings of the european council, and then of course the foreign ministers for foreign policy tasks. we know - and we know the names - who in the foreign ministers' council first comes too late, then goes too early and in the meantime - when it comes to legislation - is present with a face that is not very interested. we therefore believe that we need a council of european ministers responsible for european legislation and then a council which makes general foreign policy. this council of european ministers would then always be present when legislation is concerned and could also prepare the meetings of the european council, the most important of which is, of course, legislation. the council of ministers for europe would then, of course, also have the task of appointing the representative who would then act with parliament in the conciliation committee when we are discussing legislation. we know that today, when the council is represented, it is often officials - nothing against officials - but there are no politicians present who will then discuss these matters with the european parliament. it should be politicians who then have the courage to work with parliament to achieve results. we strongly support a fundamental reform in this direction. it would also be important for legislation that the council of ministers or, say, the respective european minister representing the presidency, be present here in parliament when it comes to legislation, or that one or more representatives of the european parliament, that is meps, be present in the council of ministers when it acts as legislator, so that the european parliament can be asked in the council: 'how do you see this, how do you see this in the european parliament?' we will have to have many discussions here, and i would ask you, mr secretary-general, to have a further discussion with the committee responsible - the chairman is here - before you give your final report to seville. if you cannot do it in person for obvious reasons, you have a representative who can then discuss it in the committee responsible. you have rightly mentioned transparency, and this is a particular concern of mrs hanja maij-weggen, who, together with mr poos, drew up the resolution on which we as a group are tabled various amendments. mrs maij-weggen cannot be here now because she went to the netherlands this afternoon after the vote to take part in the elections there, and we are all anxiously awaiting the result. we want the greatest possible degree of transparency. the council, when it meets as legislator, should therefore also meet publicly at the end of this process. the media - and television - should also report on this, so that we can know the positions of the individual governments in the final votes. i would like to ask you very warmly, mr secretary-general, that, following the transparency regulation, we also instruct the interinstitutional working group to draw up guidelines for greater transparency soon, so that we can better reach the citizens. the commission's proposals and our contributions are in principle in the right direction. if we continue to work with commitment, we will also achieve good results for our institutions, not just for the institutions but for the european union as a whole, for the citizens of europe, and i wish you and us much success in this! (applause from the centre)
- mr president, mr secretary-general of the council! the council is undoubtedly the institution most in need of reform. the council has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels. the lack of clarity in the structures, the overly complicated decision-making procedures and, above all, the lack of transparency and openness are the reasons why many things remain incomprehensible to citizens, or even unknown to them. the european council is a political body, and it is not a political body. it is true that european regulations are impossible without the agreement of the governments in the council of ministers, but it is still a popular game to blame an imaginary brussels on the public or to attack the commission just because it seems appropriate for domestic political reasons. unfortunately, my government has been doing a similarly unflattering job of it lately. that is why we need really profound reforms, reforms which will no longer allow any minister to hide his responsibility for european decisions behind this so-called brussels. where does development need to go? we need clear rules for democratic influence and control of european action by governments through national parliaments. secondly, we need public meetings when the council is meeting as legislator, with television cameras, of course, to broadcast debates and votes and to make decisions understandable to the public. thirdly - and here i agree with mr poettering - we need to create a council of european ministers. this would take account of the growing dynamism of european integration, since european policy has long since ceased to be a conventional foreign policy but is in fact a european internal policy. (applause from the centre)
chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. - mr president, mr secretary-general, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i think it is good that the council is thinking about its own reform. in fact, a lot can be done without changing the contract. it is certainly important that we think about efficiency and transparency. i think that a separate council of foreign ministers, a separate general council, is certainly a correct starting point for the administration, as mr corbett has just said. on the legislative side, it must indeed become a public event. the public event in the sense that the council as a whole is publicly accountable so that the citizen knows who is responsible for what and the public interaction between the legislators, parliament and council, takes place in public so that the citizen can determine the responsibility in europe. i believe that this also has the positive side effect of making the individual councils of ministers in such a context committees of the legislative council rather than their own legislative bodies with the negative imbalanced results that can come with it. but i think it is also extremely important that in the discussions up to seville care is taken not to allow these correct approaches to lead to the convention being deprived of some of its functions, and to ensure that the control functions are also adjusted accordingly and that the co-decision function of parliament is not undermined. this must not lead to the european council becoming the supreme legislator of the european union in the allocation of decision-making procedures, with which the european parliament does not have a codecision relationship. only the council can be a legislator. i would like to warn you explicitly - if that is the attempt - before the convention comes to fruition, to avoid adopting measures which could weaken parliament and the commission and at the same time reduce the possibilities of control, since the good image of seville could be seriously jeopardized. i warn against such ideas, which i sometimes hear from berlin and london! (applause from the centre)
the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take a decision on the matter. mrs diez knows very well that spain, before taking up the presidency and then during the presidency, had ambitions for the creation of a euro-mediterranean bank and that is why this wish was reflected in the conclusions of the european council in laeken. it was not by chance, because we were preparing the ground for the next ministerial meeting and for the spanish presidency, and again this statement appeared at the barcelona european council, but in a much lower tone. it's not that the ambition has been lowered, because the ambition is still the same and we keep it the same. it's just that the road is going to be harder and probably longer. the fact is that these things have to be approved by the competent council, which is the economic and financial council, and there were a number of countries which, for reasons which are their own, considered it risky to open a bank immediately. it was decided to set up a facility first, then a subsidiary, and then, over time, to see if the bank could be set up, including with contributions not only from europe but also from the mediterranean partner countries themselves, who are very keen to contribute. i can only share, as i said, your disappointment. i hope we can keep the ambition and the goal. it will be a more difficult, perhaps more tortuous and perhaps longer road, but the aim is still to create a mediterranean development bank for the benefit of the countries of the mediterranean basin and, in particular, to finance all those enormous development needs which are becoming so palpable in our day and which, moreover, have the dramatic effect of the departure of citizens from those countries to europe which produces all the immigration woes that we all know. we therefore believe that this is an instrument which can contribute to the development of these countries and therefore through this new method we hope to achieve the stated objective of creating the bank.
- mr president, i have to go. i think that the problem is not so much that we do not have enough money or that we do not have the means to do something on our part, but that it is the absorption capacity of these countries on the southern side of the mediterranean and that it is not possible to ensure that the projects are there and that the money is used for the desired purpose. do you not think that if we create a mediterranean bank, the money will be in that mediterranean bank and will not flow to the region as much as it has been so far? i do not see how a mediterranean bank like this will make the money better available there.
council. - mr posselt will recall that, following the council decision of 22 december 2000 establishing the european police college, a network of european police schools was set up covering all the member states. the stages of this police school, called cepol, could be summarised as follows, in chronological order: in 2001, the network was launched. the members of the school undertake to organise 10 training actions on the priority themes defined in the council decision. in 2002, in the absence of a final decision on the location of the agency's headquarters, denmark temporarily hosts the cepol secretariat and a budget of eur 2.2 million has been obtained for 2002 to finance 17 training actions. during 2002, cepol's activity will increase. 21 training actions are planned, all of which are clearly linked to the priorities set by the council. as regards cooperation between the border control services of the member states, the council refers to points 24 and 25 of the tampere european council conclusions, which call for increased cooperation and mutual assistance between the border control services of the member states, for example through exchange programmes and the transfer of technology, especially at maritime borders, and calls on the applicant states to join this cooperation without delay. the council subsequently adopted a document entitled 'concept for european management of border controls' on 6 and 7 december 2001. this concept provides, inter alia, for the heads of the services responsible for border control to meet at least once a six-month period within the strategic committee on immigration, borders and asylum and allows the candidate countries to participate in its work at least once a year. the first meeting of the committee was held in brussels on 11 april 2002 and was attended by representatives of the services responsible for border control. this cooperation will constitute a first stage in the implementation of other forms of cooperation that may be envisaged, in particular in the light of the discussions on the future commission communication on border management and the outcome of the feasibility study carried out by the italian authorities in connection with the creation of a european border police service. this study, carried out under the odysseus programme, began in october 2001 and consists of four phases. the results of the study will be presented at a ministerial conference in rome on 30 may 2002. i would also like to draw mr posselt's attention to the content of the comprehensive plan to combat illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings in the european union, which was adopted by the council on 28 february 2002. this global plan aims to define a common and integrated approach to all issues related to illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings. it defines seven areas of action, including border management measures.
- mr president, i have to go. i had the honour of initiating both the police academy and the border guard service, and this house almost unanimously adopted my report on this in 1998. so i'm glad that after four years, things are starting to unfold. i would like to ask two specific questions. firstly, as regards the location of the police academy, when do you think it will be possible to determine the location definitively and which member states have applied for it? the second question concerns border control. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the council has always said that i expect a member of the european parliament to know the institutional system in which we are working. it is not for the council or the presidency of the council to make any judgement on the rules that have been adopted. the commission has the power of initiative and the judges have to adopt the rules adopted by the council. since you are insisting on some statement made by the president-in-office of the council, i will say that that statement cannot be taken out of context. it is one thing to say that any government must respect the business decisions of multinationals, but it is quite another to exempt these multinationals from complying with the legislation in force. the commission has therefore not exempted it: the legislation in force must apply to united biscuits or to any other company. therefore, the law applies to him. if the legislation is not sufficient, let the commission make a new proposal and we will be happy to support it, and in the meantime i think that the attitude shown by the government - to immediately seek investors to solve the problem and which has already had a result - indicates that the government's will is precisely in the direction of social concern and to prevent that aguilar de campoo factory from being closed. i guarantee you, ma'am, that factory is not going to close. and of course it will not be closed, not only because of the will of the people and the workers, but also because of the will of the government which is fully aware that that would be a huge social injustice.
- mr president, i have to go. is there any possibility that this question will be answered orally next time instead of in writing? i would prefer that.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. - mr president, i have to go. the present report is a contribution to the revision of the treaties, a contribution also to a european constitution. draft constitutions are always created in political contexts and include strategic and tactical objectives and considerations, but also questions of power. the spinelli report of 1984 already took account of the union's responsibilities and the division of labour between the union and the member states, as the lamassoure report rightly does today. however, the question of competence has become more important. this is particularly true in the area of economic constitution and legislation. the success of european economic policy and the survival of the european social model require that the union's own competence in the important areas of the internal market in its entirety, the four freedoms of financial services, competition, customs and monetary policy, be preserved. the report rightly emphasizes this. the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy considers that the report does not provide sufficient democratic legitimacy for the delimitation of powers, particularly in the area of policy coordination. the experience of economic policy coordination underlines the need for a union-wide coordination capacity to address the shortcomings of the past. it is not just a question of democratic control, which should be exercised by the european parliament, but of finally moving from a negative to a positive coordination of policies in the coordination of policies - and specifically in the coordination of economic policies. positive policy coordination requires both clear democratic legitimacy and unilateral implementation. the broad guidelines of economic policy should therefore be defined jointly by the council and the european parliament, on the basis of a formal proposal from the commission. this would also serve as an example for other policy areas where coordination is needed and should be exercised. the power, indeed the moral obligation, to organise such a wide-ranging framework in the interests of economic well-being is enshrined in the chapter on the principles of the european union, if we include among the activities of the union the introduction of an economic policy based on the definition of common objectives, in which, in particular, a harmonious, balanced and sustainable development of economic life, a high level of employment and a steady, non-inflationary growth, but also social protection, can and must be organised. in the spirit of the lisbon process, i strongly urge the european parliament to advocate a policy coordination that is truly worthy of the name and that makes clear that policies of common interest can only be successful if they are also visible. (applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on regional policy, transport and tourism. - mr president, i am speaking on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, which has been dealing with the question of competence from a very early stage. unfortunately, he was not sufficiently involved in the final phase. i have seen that the report proposes that a special report be drawn up on these questions. i think that is very good, because these issues have not been sufficiently taken into account in the report. i would like to make the position of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism clear once again. perhaps this can be incorporated in the preparation of this special report. i think it is very important that this special report should not be delayed too long. i think that if these questions are not settled in the run-up to the new constitution, it will be very, very difficult for many citizens who identify with the regions and local authorities to accept this draft constitution as their own. i would point out that most eu laws do not only affect national competences and national law, but also have a direct impact on local law. we see this in the field of public services, we see this in the whole economy, we see this in tendering issues and so on and so forth. that is why it is necessary to set up an early warning system here. we have made two basic proposals. the first suggests that there should be cross-cutting principles by which all laws are developed. this goes from the principle of subsidiarity to the principle of partnership. the other proposal aims to involve regional and local authorities in the legislative process. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament's position is taken into account, and that is the only way to ensure that their views are taken into account, because even national representatives will often not do so at the end of the legislative procedure. i would ask the rapporteur to continue to work on this subject with the committee on constitutional affairs in the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the report by mr lamassoure deals with a very complicated subject. this was evident not only in the committee on constitutional affairs, but also in the first debates in the convention. the report will certainly be a contribution to the further work of the convention. the rapporteur deserves our thanks for this. i abstained in the vote in the committee and would like to give a few examples which i do not think have been adequately addressed in the report. it may be helpful to define the three types of competence that exist, but it is too short to state clearly that the first problem to be solved is democracy in europe. the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality: i think things are upside down here. why would you do that? the report gives the impression that the observance and enforcement of both principles require judicial decisions. but nowhere in the text does it say that the real problem lies elsewhere, with the actors in european politics. there are clear provisions in the treaties, for example the protocol on subsidiarity in the amsterdam treaty. all institutions are bound by this. the question is how they are going to carry out their duties, how seriously they are going to check whether the principles are being violated before they act. this kind of pre-check must finally be done by everyone. in this case, no one would have to go to the court of justice before legislation comes into force, which usually only comes into being after years of debate and corresponding procedures. paragraph 33 states that the framework of competence is to be reviewed after ten years. i do not understand the meaning and content of this proposal. does that mean that every ten years, we have to change the contract? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the report does not make it clear that a social europe must be created and that this is one of the union's imperative tasks in the context of economic and monetary union. the aim is to promote economic and social progress and high levels of employment. in fact, the aim is to reach full employment by 2010. but the words that are so far so good must be followed by deeds. employment and social security are not variables of competition, but individual fundamental rights of every citizen, and this is the way the european union must develop.
, chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. when mrs kaufmann spoke, the german team was lagging behind. (cheers and applause) but i don't want to suggest any connection. i am rather disturbed by what mr de gaulle has just said, because if you are making speeches here that want to take the european union back to the time before the single market, then you simply have to say that he did not have france's economic interests in mind. i am therefore very grateful for what mr lamassoure has said here, because i think it is a balanced model that he has put forward. it is the appropriate balance between the clarity of the rules of competence and the need to live up to walter hallstein's words that the european union is a creatio continua. this means that we are in a position to develop the european union according to the needs. it is quite clear that when applying the principle of subsidiarity we must always decide in such a way that the decision is taken at the level where it can best be taken. but we must also make it clear that only by making the boundaries clear will we be able to secure the agreement in the process of these negotiations in the convention and in the subsequent intergovernmental conference that we will also enforce majority decisions in the remaining areas. there is a close link between the clarity of powers and the further extension of majority voting, because only this can be accepted by the politicians in the national capitals and by the people who want this clarity on this issue. but we cannot achieve clarity in the conflict case through the political level. if you were to set up a subsidiarity committee, composed of national and european parliamentarians, which would have to have at least 100 members, then the decisions would be taken on the basis of exactly the same political considerations of opportunity as in the council of ministers and the european parliament. but if the principle of regionality is applied, then a minority, if it feels that a competence has been exceeded, also has a chance to assert its idea. that is why mr lamassoure's approach of going through the european court of justice is exactly the right one. it allows the defence of competences, both in the normal procedures and in this expedited procedure, through a number of groups and institutions with a right to bring actions, if it is considered that the legislator exceeds his competences. i would also suggest that you include the national parliaments in the list of those who have this right of action. i think it is extremely important, tactically wise from the point of view and the interests of the european parliament and in the matter necessary and desirable that this possibility be given. in most countries where there are regions with legislative powers, they also have such a right of action through a national chamber. this too can be largely captured by it. i think this is the crucial starting point for achieving real decision-making, for having a clear distribution, and thus for gaining acceptance, while at the same time ensuring legal certainty. i would therefore like to congratulate mr lamassoure on his report. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would like to join those who have congratulated mr lamassoure on his excellent report. i would like to make three points, if i have time. firstly, the principle of subsidiarity and the control of its observance: i would have liked to see that we had also given the regions, which have a legislative right, a right of action. i don't know if we're going to get a majority for this. i would, however, consider it right that we at least give national parliaments a right of appeal, because that would be a step in the right direction. second, the evolutionary clause: i think it's extremely important that alain lamassoure makes it clear that here changes are possible in both directions. i believe that this is a very important precondition for the further negotiations. thirdly, the improvement of the legislative procedure which is mentioned in the report: firstly, the role of the legislator is clearly defined, also in terms of terminology, as opposed to the executive, as proposed by alain lamassoure. this includes the release of technical details from the union legislation. i would like to say that the agreements reached between the three institutions on the basis of the proposals in the field of financial services are not yet sufficient in terms of democratic control, but that they can at least be a guide in the right direction.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in fact, i too believe that this report is a real step forward in the debate on european competences, not only intellectually but also politically. i would like to thank mr lamassoure not only for his intensive reflection but also for his intensive listening during our debates. i believe that this report contains two messages above all. we also want to have clear responsibilities as european parliamentarians. we are protecting ourselves against the accusation of centralism by clearly defining what we are responsible for and what we are not. secondly, the report conveys the message that we want more europe in external relations, more europe in representing european interests in the world, but that we are also prepared to do without some of these things at home and leave the detailed rules to the member states. it is interesting that in all eu member states, including the candidate countries, decentralisation has been successfully implemented in recent years. the principle of 'small units and large networks' is also applied by companies operating globally. we should therefore also, in our own interests as members of parliament, concentrate on the core competences we have and should make this clear. the commission has been very courageous here, mr president, and you, mr barnier, and your colleague mr vitorino have also been very courageous. this report is an offer to citizens - including those who are sceptical of europe - for a modern, active and transparent europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the cultural diversity of europe is also reflected in the forms of government in the member states. the european union's responsibility means mutual recognition of the diversity of the member states' systems of government. i come from a federalist member state and i see a great advantage in that, especially the fact that politicians are closer to the people. i am therefore particularly grateful to our rapporteur, mr lamassoure, for his reference to the regions, particularly those with legislative powers. some of these regions are larger in size and population than the smaller member states. this disparity in policy options will be widened by the accession of new member states. paragraph 34 and the compromise wording of paragraph 39 are very important because they indicate a new legal approach in disputes concerning subsidiarity and the principle of proportionality. i would like to make a point to my colleagues. in its judgment of 3 may 2002, the european court of first instance declared itself to be the constitutional tribunal in the jégo quéré case. the clear division of powers is of the utmost importance for citizens' agreement to further integration and enlargement. the convention must, in drawing up its proposal for a european constitutional treaty, be guided by a transparent division of responsibilities between the union and the member states. that is what the people of europe want. according to the latest eurobarometer surveys, 60% of eu citizens are proud to call themselves europeans and two thirds of the current eu population - in italy as many as 80% - want a european constitution. the good report by mr lamassoure is an important contribution by the european parliament on the difficult road to that end. i thank you all and hope that we will be successful in the convention!
mr president, commissioner barnier, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. our long debate today has shown that we take a very positive attitude to one subject, namely the role of the regions in the european union, and that this is of course already being recognised in this lamassoure report. it is intended to include a special report on the role of the regions. i think that the result of our long debate could also be that we will consider together tomorrow morning whether we could not put in the report in a somewhat clearer form what we have now jointly established - and there are amendments on this point from various groups. the second point i would like to raise is the question of competences. alain lamassoure has rightly pointed out that external economic relations - and this is a very important area - certainly belongs there. the commission can do things properly, the council of ministers can help to give direction, but the european parliament, unlike the american congress, has almost no influence. the practical cooperation we have with the commission is excellent, but i do not think things have to stay the way they are. we should actually do better in the context of these allocations of competences - this is something that is particularly important for our institution. perhaps the convention can still make the necessary considerations on this subject. i think the regions are an important issue. i should like to thank mr lamassoure very warmly for his excellent report. but as far as the regions are concerned, i think we are a little too timid. we could do a little more for ourselves.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european union's position vis-à-vis the iraqi government is unfortunately characterized by the blackmailing attitude of the iraqi authorities. saddam hussein and his henchmen have taken large sections of their own people hostage to their aggressive policies. the perfidy of this situation is the political exploitation of very real, often artificially amplified, human and economic hardship. it usually hits the weakest members of society hardest. but this must not lead to a confusion of cause and effect. the cause of the suffering of the great majority of the iraqi people is not the sanctions, but the aggressiveness, the subtlety and the incompetence of a totalitarian regime which provoked these sanctions. any other view, any short-sightedness of thought must be firmly opposed. any statement which confines itself to the direct link between the consequences of the embargo and the effects on the population is dangerously short-sighted, even if it is well-intentioned. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the united nations security council, at its meeting yesterday, indicated the right way. it unanimously decided to strengthen the arms embargo and at the same time to facilitate the import of civilian goods into iraq. this is a further indication that there is a broad agreement in content between this report and previous resolutions of the european parliament, on the one hand, and resolutions of the security council and the un commission on human rights, on the other. this agreement should be emphasized, deepened and extended and not strained by statements about an alleged failure of the embargo. the report by baroness nicholson of winterbourne also takes up and elaborates on a proposal which was already submitted in november 2000. it concerns the establishment of a tribunal to punish the iraqi regime for its human rights violations. i am convinced that such processes - if not for every dictator, then for many willing supporters - can act as a deterrent and contribute to the destabilization of the regime. i therefore fully support the call for the establishment of an investigative body to collect and evaluate witness statements and documents and to document the evidence before the courts. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have read this report differently from mrs de keyser, and more positively. i would like to make a point to you, mr gomolka, first of all: i think that maybe you have to go a little deeper in order to properly represent cause and effect. as a scientific adviser to the geneva conference on disarmament, i witnessed how in 1985 the united states, the major western european powers and the soviet union remained silent when the use of c-weapons by the iraqi army against iran was presented there. such policies, of course, also build up dictators, including their access to weapons of mass destruction. of course, the report is not consistent. there are contradictions. but i want to highlight three things: firstly, it unequivocally criticises saddam hussein's irresponsible policy towards his own people and the international community. it shall formulate the necessary requirements. secondly - and i have just read this differently - he highlights the crucial issue for me of a solution to the conflict by saying, and i quote: 'emphasizing the importance of a multilateral political solution in the region under the auspices of the un as the only solution to ensure stability and peace in the region'. we can't have a war. it would have the most dangerous consequences in this region, and for our entire relationship with the islamic and arab world. thirdly, this report calls for the lifting of economic and trade sanctions, at least in all cases where they are not of military relevance. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. i would therefore like to thank you, madam rapporteur, for this report, which, although it sounds strange from this side of the house, i have read as a report written in the really good tradition of liberalism.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. we are dealing today with a report which was unanimously adopted by the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. this shows that the colleagues in the committee felt that the line i proposed in it was the right one. but in january these colleagues had the opportunity to hear some of the albanian parliament's colleagues in committee speak for themselves. they could see the maturity of this country and its politicians. i do not want to repeat what my colleagues said during the debate there. but i was not under the impression that the comments of my colleagues and my own comments in this debate had led all the politicians in this region to finally realize that they really had to make policy for the albanian people, both the opposition and the government! that is why i think that we are presenting a report which is relatively strict, but not because we do not love the albanian people, but because we love them perhaps a little more than some politicians in this country who are not so much concerned with the welfare of these citizens as with their own pockets and their own position. i say this because i know the people there and i know the politicians. so i think we should not just stand behind the mountain, but really say, there was an election last year. this election was rigged. we then allowed it not to be repeated. but we then asked that - because this election was rigged in order to have a huge majority in parliament to elect the president in june - this election at least not be held. instead, politicians should come together and try to find a personality who could then be a president of all albanians, instead of becoming an albanian president thanks to a stolen majority. i am therefore very grateful to the honourable members who have followed me in paragraphs 4 and 5, in which we ask that, before the negotiations between the commission and the albanians are opened, at least once all the provisions laid down by the osce/odihr election observation commission be followed, namely that this commission should start its work in parliament and check that a new electoral law is also being put in place, and that the honourable members should consider who in albania can lead this country as president in such a way that it is united. now there are many who say that opening negotiations means, of course, that all this can be much better controlled. i can't believe you did that! we're there more than anywhere else. albania is the only country in the world that has a circle of friends, where states, organizations come together and meet several times a year to help this country. and what did that turn out to be? i know albania has had the worst fate in europe. we know. hoxha was not tito, nor was he honecker. hoja was hoja and it was terrible! but albania has been without hojza for some time now, and so we could actually expect things to get a little better. but there's an infinite amount of work to be done. what albania has to do, it does not do because it has to get closer to europe. albania must do this because it wants to become a proper democracy, because it wants the best for its citizens, and that is why it needs a proper jurisprudence, administrative practice and the possibility for people to get back to their property that they were deprived of, and for that it needs a proper infrastructure. all these things are needed to attract investors. it also needs the confidence of foreign investors and for that it needs good policy! i think the council would be well advised to consult us, because we must end up approving the treaty. i think the commission is basically thinking along the same lines as we are - we should not start until albanian politicians have shown themselves willing to take a step forward. we are therefore prepared to start negotiations with them immediately, which will then resolve all the problems they are now facing. i would remind you that we are there in the year of the many and we are trying everything to help this country, and what we say today is really only help for the people and not against the people. i am therefore very grateful that we voted unanimously in the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. i would be very happy if this were the case tomorrow!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not the legal affairs committee and, after parliament has given its consent, parliament as a whole, shall submit to the commission a complete proposal for a directive, a legislative initiative on book pricing in the european union. why is this initiative necessary? in spring 2000, the commission decided that the crossborder book price link between germany and austria was not compatible with community law. we accepted that decision. austria has responded, has passed a law, germany has initially signed a contractual agreement, but the federal republic of germany will also pass a law on book price fixing before the summer. what are we aiming for? we do not want to impose this on member states which do not want a price-fixing system. each member state should be able to decide whether or not to accept this system. this is important! but the national systems of book pricing accepted by the commission are de facto threatened by the import of books, by exports and re-imports and by internet trade. there are many ways of getting around these roads. competition rules are therefore necessary in community law to ensure that the permissible national systems of book-entry pricing are not undermined. the national rules are also threatened by commercial companies which also trade in books and which have these national systems constantly attacked by national and european courts in the hope that they will one day actually fall. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. in fact, in the discussions i had with him at the time, commissioner monti recommended that very approach. he was in charge at the time and said: 'if we, the commission, have decided, we should think of a directive which makes this decision sustainable for the future.' it is a question of respect for the member states which have opted for these systems. they do this for the sake of cultural diversity. i will give just one example. in the federal republic of germany more titles are published in a year than in the united states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why the commission must ensure that we create this legal and economic framework so that the member states which have these systems can keep them de facto. that is the point of this proposal for a directive. it is not a question of enforcing the price of books throughout the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i have also explained in detail why these coexisting systems can distort competition and why a legal basis is necessary for the european union to act. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. five years ago, in 1997, a summit was held in new york, five years after rio. unfortunately, the european parliament was represented by a very small delegation at that time. i had the honour of being part of this small delegation. at that time, developing countries even tried to write the term 'sustainable development' in the final declaration, instead of 'sustainable economic growth'. i understand this to a certain extent, because, of course, in the developing world, poverty is the main issue. when we talk about environmental protection, it's sometimes a little bit unbelievable. however, we as the eu should keep both in mind, economic and social development, but also environmental protection, because of course they are interrelated. if the world bank, for example, calculates that in the case of no action on climate change, the gdp of the industrialized countries will fall by 1 to 2% in the coming years as a result of the climate catastrophe, but that of the developing countries will fall by 10%, then it is clear that environmental and social and economic development cannot be used in opposition to each other, but that they are interrelated. but - and the developing countries are right - we must pretend that it is possible to organise economic growth and prosperity without doing so at the expense of the environment. that is why, for example, in the field of climate protection, we must reduce our emissions before we can impose any obligations on developing countries. i therefore believe that what we have always said in theory and what is contained in our resolutions must now also be implemented in the european union. the commission's proposals on emissions trading, for example, can therefore be criticized a lot, they can be improved, but this basic approach must be followed. we need to act now on the ground so that developing countries will actually believe that sustainable development is possible.
- mr president, i have to go. the first sentence of paragraph 19 is incorrectly reproduced in the german version. in the words of our rapporteur, alain lamassoure, the union's own competences must remain limited in number. the german text says that the union's own powers must remain limited. this is different. if the union has a competence in customs policy, it has it fully and without limitations. so, in german it must read: 'considers that the number of the union's own competences must remain limited'. i ask you to correct that.
- mr president, i have to go. we are in favour of this oral amendment, but as an additional motion. we are determined to maintain our amendment no 12.
mr president, depending on the outcome of this vote, i reserve the right to ask the chairman of the committee to withdraw the statement of reasons in accordance with rule 161 of our rules of procedure.
- mr president, i have to go. our rules of procedure expressly state that the rapporteur is solely responsible for the reasons. that is always the case, and therefore it would be unusual and wrong to reject them here. that would be against the rules. (applause from the centre)
- the next item is the report (a5-0128/2002) by mr miranda, on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation, on the communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament entitled 'building an effective partnership with the united nations in the fields of development and humanitarian affairs' (com (2001) 231 - c5-0396/2001 - 2001/2154 (cos)).
- we have plenty of time this afternoon. at present, speakers do not use all their speaking time. normally it's the other way around, but today, ladies and gentlemen, you're almost too short. but you are just plain right !
- mr. martinez, you see that this afternoon, i didn't prevent anyone from speaking. this only took place around noon, as the reports were discussed at length. if you remember, the vote did not start until 12.15. we have an extra 15 minutes of discussion this morning from 1 to 1.15 p.m. and we have it this afternoon. i take into account the fact that we have many guests, and that it is certainly less interesting for them to interrupt the session now. i therefore did not inform the larger groups, but conducted the debate in a somewhat more relaxed manner. no one was stopped today, and if anyone wants to intervene again, they can do so now. but i see that it is not. in a spontaneous parliament of a western democracy, anything can happen, even if you have more time than you thought. is anyone still ready, able or absolutely wanting to say something? it is not. i can therefore now appeal to commissioner nielson. i don't mean that you have unlimited speaking time, but you don't have to be as short today as you usually are.
commission. – mr president, i shall begin by addressing some of the points raised this afternoon. firstly, mr miranda's wish that parliament be kept well informed about progress in our relationship with the united nations family and that this be included in our annual report. i agree completely. i am grateful to mr miranda for referring to the annual report, because it requires something of an effort to produce it, and so i am very touched to hear it mentioned. it may also be useful from time to time in direct discussion in parliament's committees. mrs garcía-orcoyen tormo wanted more emphasis on the operational side, even at the level of project selection with un organisations. basically, the way in which we prefer to work with others is project selection or the formulation of sector programmes, something rooted in the policy of the host government. the consequence will be that we and other donors provide some sort of basket funding enabling a government to carry out its education policy, its health sector policy, or whatever, rather than donors together deciding on a project. it has to be flexible to meet all kinds of circumstances, but basically this more problematic way of planning things is also what we are discussing with the un family. a big problem today is that the restrictions on how we can spend money in the existing financial regulation force the commission to fund specific projects only one by one, through un organisations. this makes us an inadequate and even sometimes unwelcome partner because we lack predictability and a more long-term perspective. on top of this, we are obliged, on the basis of existing rules and regulations, to insist on having reporting, accounting and auditing on funding through a un entity carried out under our rules. we are not allowed to accept their way of reporting, unlike our member states. this is the core of the changes that we presented nearly two years ago to member states. i will come back to this. mr mccartin, it is absolutely true that we still have a problem about the rate of implementation. however, at the end of 1999, when this commission took over, it took 4.6 years to spend what was committed at the then rate of spending. the following year this was down to 4.1 years and, at the end of 2001, the figure was 3.6 years. so we are eating into the mountain of unspent commitments. we have not finished yet, but things are moving. on the question of the development of a single policy, we have an overall development cooperation policy statement. it was adopted unanimously by member states in november 2000 and parliament has also endorsed this policy unanimously. we are very pleased with that. the main effect of this policy is to focus more clearly on poverty reduction or eradication as the guiding principle for whatever we do. we have never had anything like this before. it covers our global activities, so we have a guide as to what member states should do. however, reality can be different. let me applaud the positive and constructive report of mr miranda. we welcome the support given by that parliament to the commission’s approach to building a more effective partnership with the united nations. i liked the positive tone this afternoon in all the speeches. this has not always been the case. it is a sign of maturity and of healthy self-confidence on our part in europe that we now approach this in a more active manner. the united nations, due to its global mandate, its unique legitimacy and, in a number of areas, its operational strengths, provides an irreplaceable framework to address global challenges confronting the international community. enhancing dialogue and cooperation to build a strategic partnership between the community and the united nations will improve the effectiveness and efficiency of development cooperation and humanitarian aid, thereby strengthening the community’s contribution to poverty reduction and human security. there is, however, a limit to how far we can go. it is, after all, called the united nations – it is not called the "united commissions". our member states are the real owners of the united nations as an organisation. but there is large scope for improvement and a very strong interest on both sides to move in that direction. a more active and visible presence of the commission in the un also has a positive effect in enhancing the ability of the european union as such to act and speak with one voice on global matters. this is a very important, and also a very real, aspect. we saw this demonstrated in monterrey, and it is the intention of the commission to continue along the same lines. we aim at concrete outcomes at policy and operational levels. at policy level we will strengthen the involvement of the community in the upstream policy dialogue with the different members of the united nations system. at the operational level we will work towards a transparent, financially credible, predictable and easier to monitor strategic partnership with selected un agencies, funds and programmes. the follow-up to the communication we are discussing is already well advanced. bilateral meetings have been conducted with a number of un agencies: funds and programmes and the strategic programming dialogues established by echo are examples. for the country strategy papers, consultation with un bodies present in the country is now obligatory. this is where the type of cooperation i mentioned in my response to mrs garcía-orcoyen tormo applies. we are discussing further steps with the un secretariat. a broad fact-finding exercise on mandates and capacities of potential un partners was launched in november 2001 to determine how their key capacities match with our priorities. the first results of this will be available by june. a more effective partnership with the un requires an adequate enabling legal and financial environment: we are negotiating the revision of the 1999 ec-un framework agreement, with a view to concluding all this by the end of the year. however, recasting the changes in the community’s financial regulation is still, as i said before, under discussion in the council. this work will have to be completed fully to realise the intentions of the communication. this is the real bottleneck. the united nation’s response, called "a vision of partnership", supports much of the communication and proposes to go even further. the commission is drafting another communication that will address the eu-un relationship at a broader level, as your resolution also suggests. in preparing this communication we will take account of the points made by parliament in this debate. we look forward to working hand in hand with parliament in strengthening our influence in the world through this process.
- thank you very much, commissioner nielson. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 5.30 p.m. we have reached the point i feared: we must suspend the session for 20 minutes. mr. posselt wants to speak on the rules of procedure. i already know what he's going to say, because there have been comments on this point before.
- mr president, i have to go. two things: the first is that i would really ask the political groups to ask their speakers to be present. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to ask the bureau to make this official, as a criticism to the political groups. the second point i would like to make is that i would really like to ask that in future planning we make sure that it is somewhat more efficient. we had to reduce our urgent debate this afternoon from three hours to one and a half hours, and now we see that we have a break, and we see that we have a vote at 5.30 p.m. instead of 6.30 p.m. as before. we would have easily had the three hours of urgent debate actually provided for in our rules of procedure between now and the old voting time of 6.30 p.m. i would ask you to inform the conference of presidents and the bureau of this as well. there was no reason at all for this reduction. of course, if you have no material, there is no need to debate further, but if you have too little time, as is the case with the urgent ones this time, there is no reason not to use the full time until 6.30 p.m., especially since the people who are here today will be here tomorrow and the others will be gone anyway.
- mr president, i have to go. i would like to add my voice to that of mr posselt. on the one hand, we have such a busy agenda when we look at tuesday and wednesday. we have night sessions and virtually no way to contact groups of visitors who come here. we have hardly any opportunity to do any desk work, which is also necessary during plenary week. then we have these pieces on thursday afternoons that are a waste of time. i am also pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative of proposing a new regulation on the protection of the environment. i think it would be a disservice to the reputation of this parliament if we continued to make such unbalanced planning here. i would ask you to bear this in mind very clearly in the context of the calendar for next year, which i have in several versions as a preliminary draft and which i believe should be used more sparingly but also more efficiently. i would therefore ask you to give this matter serious consideration and to plan accordingly. the second would be a question to mr nielson, if i may. mr nielson, you have just spoken of the budgetary regulation as the basis for your efforts in the field of food aid. i would now like to have a little explanation of this. i have been dealing with the budgetary procedure for months now in the committee i represent. we know that it is up to the council at the moment, but of course parliament has also put forward some things which we would like to see incorporated in the financial regulation. we can see that it's dragging on. but perhaps you can make a little more clear what this means for you and your field. i think it would be helpful for us, too.
- commissioner, may i return to the two aspects of the rules of procedure. we are prepared to pass on the remarks on the timetable, although of course we cannot always get it right. i explained it earlier. you were not in the room yet, mr. posselt. this afternoon we stopped at 12:14 instead of 12:00. we missed those 14 minutes this afternoon. this afternoon, among the speakers who were registered - i do not know which ones did not come - that is to say, among those who were on the list, and for the first time since i have been in office, all spoke less time than they could have done according to the list of speakers, with the exception of mr mccartin. if you do the addition, this explains practically 16 minutes out of the 22. in fact, the night session was scheduled to last until midnight. yet it ended at 11:20 p.m. you can't always fall right. in this respect, the evening session from yesterday to today was, according to the participants, of exceptional quality. there were only a few guests, but i was told that the discussion was of a very high standard. i thank commissioner nielson for his kindness in answering mrs theato's question. regardless, we note the criticisms regarding thursday's schedule.
- mr president, i have to go. there is a german sailor song that begins with the words: "we were off madagascar and had the plague on board". if you look at the current situation in madagascar, it seems like the whole island is suffering from plague. not only is the humanitarian and economic situation at least as dire as the one described in this resolution, but this country is still on the verge of division and in the midst of a bloody civil war and power struggle. that is why it is all the worse that in these days a flood disaster has been added. since yesterday, madagascar has been hit by massive floods, and it feels as if this country has been struck by all the plagues at once. we therefore have an urgent humanitarian obligation to madagascar, an ancient kingdom with a great history, with an immense diversity of cultures, with a natural beauty that is unique in the world. i believe that we must first provide immediate humanitarian aid to the flood victims and secondly act immediately to do something about the crisis in the supply of medicines. thirdly, we have an obligation to provide economic aid in the face of the mass collapse of farms, and finally, mr president, we have a duty to mediate in this civil war and, above all, to support the african aspirations of the president of senegal.
- mr president, i have to go. the conflict in indonesia is no more a religious conflict than the conflict in northern ireland. fanaticism is only dressed in a religious garb. in reality, these are ethnic conflicts with very deep roots, namely the indonesian government's so-called transmigration programme, which seeks to systematically relocate the population of the main islands to other islands. the proof of my thesis is that in the moluccas, the ancient christian spice islands, there is conflict between christians and muslim immigrants. in borneo, the same conflict exists between followers of the natural religions on the one hand and muslim immigrants on the other. in aceh, there's the same problem between the ancient native muslim subjects of this ancient aceh sultanate and immigrants from the main islands like java and sumatra. that is why i think it is also necessary to point out to the government that it must put an end to these population movements, to these artificial settlement programmes, because otherwise a huge country that stretches from australia to the asian mainland cannot be held together, but is threatened with disintegration. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. in the 1980s there were violent clashes between hindus and sikhs, in the early 1990s in bombay and uttar pradesh between hindus and muslims. and now gujarat: murder, massacres, burnings on both sides and since february this year about 1500 victims. the hindu nationalist parties justify their radicalism by the increasing islamization of the neighbouring states and their influence on india. the supreme court of india's ruling on march 13 gives hope that the violence will end. it ruled that the site where fanatics demolished a mosque in 1992 to build a hindu temple should not be transferred to the radical hindu organisation whp. constitutional guarantees such as the muslim marriage law, which respects the traditions of indian muslims, are an expression of freedom of religion and expression in india. secularism is a part of the preamble of the indian constitution. article 25, which guarantees freedom of religion, also obliges the indian state to protect all its citizens. the ideal of peaceful coexistence between different ethnic groups and cultures is upheld as a principle. by sending some army units, the indian government was trying to make clear to the world public its willingness to end the violence. it also offered a relief package for the victims' families of some eur 35 million. the international criticism of many of the inadequate measures against radical forces has been acknowledged by the indian minister of justice these days, especially since india signed the globally accepted human rights conventions long ago. the ppe group believes that such insights should be taught in schools.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. the negative developments in zimbabwe are unfortunately inversely proportional to the international attention since the fraudulent presidential elections in march. one of the most dramatic effects, for example, is the growing food shortage, which, as commissioner nielson has already mentioned in another context, is largely man-made, i.e. by the mugabe regime itself. we are told that some 50,000 people have fled zimbabwe because they are being persecuted and harassed by mugabe's troops. we hear every day about looting of farms and about the ruling class in zimbabwe brazenly enriching themselves on other people's property while it still seems possible. but i would also like to point out another, scandalous, incident, namely the council's behaviour in this context. i received a reply yesterday to a question to the council and i asked what the interim balance of the targeted sanctions imposed on certain persons there is. i wanted to know what was going on with the refused visas. the answer was that this was a matter for the nation states. well, you might as well have asked the others! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i wonder how the council can make a country in free fall disappear from the operational agenda! in april it was postponed, in may further decision-making must also be postponed because the high level troika had not yet been sent, and now it is due to leave on sunday. the fact that is really to be criticised in this context is that, even in terms of reference, that is to say, in the terms of reference of this high level troika, france, belgium and the presidency itself are already trying in advance to water down the troika's mandate. that's actually incredible given the situation in this country! we are talking again about cooperation, although we have not yet even made an assessment of the measures we have taken. i really wonder what else needs to happen in this country to make the council pay a little more attention to its responsibilities. i hope at least that this high-level troika, which will be moving in southern africa on zimbabwe from sunday, will be briefed firsthand on the dramatic developments in the situation by diplomats stationed in harare, at least in a neighbouring country. we, as the european parliament, cannot accept that the council is trying to negate such an urgent issue in southern africa in this way, and that it is above all unwilling to make this development in zimbabwe, for example, a test case for the new african development programme. these are things we should definitely ask for.
commission. – the commission shares the concern about zimbabwe following the presidential elections, in terms of the legitimacy of the present government, the issue of freedom of the press, continued violence, the economic crisis and the associated food shortages. it is clear that the election results did not reflect the will of the people of zimbabwe. the process leading up to the elections, as well as the conduct of the elections, were characterised by deliberate attempts by the authorities to prevent free and fair elections. we are particularly concerned about the continued violence and repression prevailing in zimbabwe, the crushing of the opposition, civil society and the independent press. putting an end to violence and the resolution of the political conflict through negotiation is the highest priority. only with a degree of social peace can the rule of law be re-established, and, with it, the impartiality of state institutions, such as the security forces. the eu has applied targeted sanctions against members of the ruling party and a moratorium on bilateral ministerial contacts. it is possible that the council may decide to further extend sanctions in view of the stalemate and lack of progress in inter-party dialogue and the continued repression and violence we see in zimbabwe. i would like to underline that the situation in zimbabwe has now become a very real emergency, and is likely to become a protracted one. we have anticipated humanitarian needs and are addressing food shortages and the needs of refugees and internally-displaced people. eur 18 million is available to cover immediate needs. this figure is not fixed, but it reflects the needs assessment we have made so far. this is the way we normally do things. we have to ensure that this is the basis of our decisions. these funds will be managed by the world food programme and by different ngos, reflecting the need to avoid political games. although prepared to make a major effort to assist the population, we are fully aware of reports pointing to the government of zimbabwe's use of the food crisis for political purposes. in our contacts with the zimbabwean authorities we have systematically stressed that all of those affected by a humanitarian emergency need to be assisted, regardless of their political conviction, and reiterated the need for non-partisan food distribution. unfortunately, about 18 months ago, one of our attempts to distribute food in an even-handed way was disrupted by violence. moreover, we have emphasised that in zimbabwe – once a food-exporting country – the present food shortages are mainly the product of misguided policies and only partly the result of drought. the drought problem is, however, a regional problem and has the negative effect of making it more difficult to buy food in the region in order to assist zimbabwe. thus, things are more complicated because of the drought, but the real problems we are faced with in zimbabwe do not basically stem from the drought but are a product of misguided policies. we believe that the international community should follow the situation very closely. a european union troika visit to the sadc region will take place next week to confer with sadc countries in looking for courses of action, and to support regional efforts to broker a negotiated political settlement in the internal zimbabwean crisis. we hope to initiate a real dialogue on zimbabwe and to promote coordination between the eu and the sadc region. in fact, we managed to establish a close political dialogue with the sadc region at political level during the difficult months – winter and early spring – this year, but we need to move that discussion further in order to try to create a positive influence on the situation in zimbabwe.as to mr mulder's suggestion of doing something about the assets in europe of leaders of zimbabwe, we have not been very good at delivering on the justified, legitimate demand from nigeria to identify and retrieve the money that was stolen by the previous military government. some progress has been made, fortunately, with a number of court rulings and this is important. i mention it to illustrate the difficulty of simply delivering something like this, but it is an area that needs to be investigated. we have a question of extraterritoriality to discuss with these kinds of sanctions, and this is not very easy. there are important principles at stake in those decisions and discussions. so, much as i welcome the thrust and the direction of the thinking in mr mulder's contribution, we have to be careful about what we do.
- mr president, i have to go. a short question to the commissioner: is the commission prepared to work with the council to ensure that the terms of reference for this high-level troika which is now travelling to southern africa are not watered down and limited, but that they are actually discussed and negotiated with neighbouring zimbabwe on the spot, in a manner appropriate to the gravity of the situation?
- mr president, i have to go. the debate was interrupted twice this afternoon for more than a quarter of an hour, first before the urgent debate and then again after the urgent debate. i just wanted to say that i would ask that the session service, on thursday afternoons, wherever this happens, calculate differently in the future, namely that it automatically adds 20 minutes. if he gives 20 minutes more than he has so far, it will be very accurate. if everyone were to speak, as i hope they will, the worst that could happen would be that this vote would take place at 5.45 instead of 5.30. we have voted at 6.30 p.m. anyway. i would ask you, mr president, to tell the chamber that we can calculate a little more generously. i was interrupted by your predecessor on two speeches today, relatively on time. i respect that, but only then can there be no gaps in the programme.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the socialist group had requested a statement from the council and the commission on the common fisheries policy at the beginning of today's sitting. it had also asked that not only this declaration be made but that a declaration be made by the commission and the council on the common fisheries policy and the adoption of the decisions on which this common fisheries policy is based. we asked for this explanation because the public had the impression - and the spanish government and its minister for agriculture had a hand in this - that a member state government had exerted influence or pressure on one or more members of the commission in the preparation of these decisions. this would be of particular importance in terms of the relevance of this process to european law. the council and the commission should therefore have made a statement on this subject, i.e. on the adoption of these decisions. we are all the more convinced when we read in today's agency reports on the commission's decisions that the member of the commission in question, who was obviously under pressure from his government, commissioner de palacio, in an open letter, has been very critical of the commission's decisions - she was obviously absent from the crucial commission meeting. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the council is absent today. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's representative could at least explain today, in addition to the statement on the common fisheries policy, how these joint decisions were reached. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would not have spoken if mr schulz had not made these remarks. i do not want to judge the behaviour of the government mentioned by mr schulz, nor the behaviour of any member of the commission. but, mr schulz, your remarks would have been more credible if you had also criticised the fact that the german government, when it was supposed to receive a blue letter, put pressure on the council of ministers so that this letter was not sent. (applause from the centre) you would have more credibility if you had also made a member of your party who is a member of the commission - and i will not mention the name specifically now because i do not want to make this a subject of a great debate - a subject of discussion here too, when this member of the commission has broken the rules of the commission! i want to make it clear that i don't want to deal with the past here. but you're selective about the subjects you're addressing, and that's damaging to your credibility. this does not support any criticism of the individual behaviour of governments or commissioners, which may be justified. that is what i wanted to know. we agreed that commissioner fischler would make a statement today. i would like to welcome commissioner fischler. we should not misuse this declaration for partisan political statements. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i also make a procedural proposal, and i will not be responding to mr poettering's remarks. it's difficult, of course. anyone who knows me knows i'm about to do a major act of self-control! (cheers and applause) in germany there will be an election campaign in a few weeks' time, and mr poettering has made it clear that there is already an election campaign. that is why i do not respond to his comments. but that in parliament a motion for a regulation which we as a group put on the agenda and which i have justified in the matter must be accompanied by criticism of one's own government in order to be credible, so that statement is no better than partiality! that's why you're not credible! we call for a vote on our motion.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make a statement on the very topical subject, to ask a question on security, and at the same time to warn everyone who comes and goes in this house. yesterday at about 6 p.m., my coworker and i were attacked and robbed by a group of four or five young men at the visitor entrance of this house. my co-worker's bag is missing, and her hand is injured. we were in the yard, the security area, the security camera area. the robbery was captured perfectly, and i recommend this film to all of us as a lesson. i screamed and called for help and ran after the perpetrators in the park. it was only when my employee was able to get up and walk into the house that she received support and help from the security service. i can see that the security of all of us in the entrance area of this house is not guaranteed. i ask the question, why didn't the security services come to our aid? he could have heard me, and he heard me. what has parliament done since the last such incident? i would ask for a security zone or a perimeter around this house and also for access to the eastman building, which we must use as part of parliament. it is not possible that gangs of robbers can be allowed to run wild here and our security services can only monitor and harass our groups of visitors, our assistants and sometimes even the members of parliament. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the important remarks made by mrs klaas require further comments. the whole thing was recorded. so it's time for you, mr. president, to take disciplinary action against all those who were close to the security service and didn't intervene. you should also file a complaint with the relevant law enforcement authorities for failure to provide assistance. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am pleasantly surprised that you, mr galeote, as head of delegation, want to speak today on fisheries. you have three minutes. that's enough time to make up, i think! i hope that this official support, and i hope that you, mr galeote, will support this reform, is what i wish from all my colleagues. unfortunately, the fishing boat does seem to be going off the rails. the climate, not only within the committee on fisheries, is extremely bleak. i'm sorry to hear that. in future i would ask each of my colleagues to explain in what capacity he is speaking to this house. i would like to ask you, mr fischler, who will be our next contact in your directorate-general, after your important employee has been politically - yes, i say this - discredited? by the way, is the rotation to an advisory post without successor in office even attributable to the taxpayer? who is going to present to me and to us the data and facts we need to be able to support the reform? please also send us your calculations and the methodology. the attacks that just took place demand these answers. in this context, mr crespo, if he were still in the chamber, may i ask you, mr noguera, how you understand the north-south conflict which you have so often brought up? are we really at war, mrs. figueiredo? why did the spanish friends in the committee on fisheries particularly welcome the new grouping of amigos de la pesca? is this group integrating or splitting? why don't the other fishing nations join in? are they not wanted? where's the community? i was in vigo, spain, yesterday. some have said, "that's very brave of you, girl". but there are very different expressions of this. the alarm bells are ringing in several directions. i hope that all those who are speaking here today and tomorrow on fisheries are capable of integration. we all wanted reform because we had exhausted the seas. now we must bear the consequences - together!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. this reform of the block exemption regulation is aimed at reorganising motor vehicle trade in the european union. i believe that this reform project is extremely important, also for european competition policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to add, as rapporteur, that you, mr monti, have also personally, in a very intensive dialogue with parliament, with the rapporteur and with many members of this house, ensured that in the course of this constructive dialogue many of parliament's proposals were taken into account in your deliberations. what is the situation of traders in the european union at the moment, with the old block exemption regulation? what does the old block exemption regulation allow for in the formulation of contracts between dealers and the powerful car manufacturers? there are some very interesting observations about the current situation: now it's like, dealers only get to deal one brand. the manufacturer can now require the retailer to provide a service in addition to the trade. now it's just that spare parts can only be ordered from the car manufacturer and not from the spare parts manufacturer. now it's the car manufacturers who can dictate how many storage vehicles dealers have to keep on their premises. this situation is clearly characterized by a very uneven balance of power between trade and producers. i believe that the present draft of a new block exemption regulation can certainly broaden the base for smes and also offer consumers the chance to obtain better purchasing conditions by improving the market situation. in future, the dealer will be able to trade several brands. in future, the dealer will not be able to be obliged to provide services. in the future, there will be more independent workshops, independent repair shops, that can get their information -- we've made sure of that -- directly from the manufacturer, to be able to actually service and repair cars. this is a plus in the future, organised by this block exemption regulation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i'm not criticizing that. manufacturers must be able to reorganise their distribution networks. but in total, over 3 000 firms are currently being closed in europe. this reform will keep them in the market, this reform will give them a chance to stay in the market. on the subject of distribution structures in the european union: i believe that with the proposed distribution structure - as mr monti has proposed - we will get a very strong push for liberalization. this is a major change in trade in addition to the current difficult conditions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why there will be a large majority tomorrow in favour of a proposal to extend the transitional period for the establishment clause to 2005. at the same time, a timely review clause is called for to see whether the location clause is still necessary in the light of the market situation. the majority in parliament supports this proposal. i believe that this will also ensure that we have a large majority in this parliament in favour of mr monti's reform proposal. commissioner, we shall be supporting your reform proposal by a large majority tomorrow. i think that with regard to this reform, we must say at the end of this negotiation process that there is now once again an exception to the antitrust law for a specific sector. i also say that in future there must be fewer exceptions for certain sectors! the industry is therefore well advised to prepare itself for the fact that in 2010 there will not be an automatic connection scheme, but we will ensure a situation that is no longer characterised by an exception to the antitrust law.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to express my gratitude to you for having taken the right direction in what you have started, because the old block exemption regulation - with all its possible merits - is simply and painfully out of date. she's shown so many flaws that we really need something new here. but you also resisted the temptation to say: we do not want any more exemption regulations. no, you have put forward a proposal which i think is really welcome in many respects: more branded sales, for example, the abolition of the compulsory merger of sales and maintenance, the possibility of separating the two, the strengthening of independent workshops, independent spare parts manufacturers and more. this is a way of increasing competition for the benefit of consumers. however, and this is not surprising, the devil is in the details, and of course we have a little bit of a problem with some things. but i want to say clearly that this is a matter of detail and that in a long debate in the committee we have reached a good compromise in many areas. i should also like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to the rapporteur. i must say, however, commissioner, and you know this, that there is one point on which i have reservations: this point has the location clause, the establishment clause to it. you know, there's just different evaluations of this clause. you say, the commission says, what is being proposed here is bringing more competition and it is bringing lower prices specifically. i wonder if that's true. i wonder if what is being proposed is really competition and if it will lead to more competition. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. what at first seems plausible and reasonable can be fraught with danger: because it is a closed circle, the big ones can eat the small ones. i am concerned that this will lead, firstly, to the death of small and mediumsized enterprises in the distribution sector, to their being eaten up by the big ones, and that this will lead to a further process of concentration which will be even more rapid than is already the case. this could lead to prices rising again later on, as there is no longer enough competition. that is why we are not proposing to withdraw the whole proposal, but we are saying: let us include it in the regulation but suspend it. we can then really look again and decide again in the light of the concrete events whether we will continue with this proposal or not.
the commission has already done so. we have a debate today on a subject which affects every consumer, every citizen in the european union. all our guests are affected, and as far as industry is concerned, many jobs and a very large number of smes are affected. these smes are not only in the countries where the car companies are located, but they are also present throughout europe. i am a victim myself, and i hate to think about the last inspection bill, which was extremely expensive. i am therefore very grateful to the commissioner for this bold proposal for more competition. we have also included in this positive proposal a number of elements, such as the separation of the sales service, more brand sales, the elimination of territorial protection and the information obligations for workshops. so there will be a lot more competition here, and i am very grateful to you, mr monti, for that. i am also very grateful to you for the fact that you have sought dialogue with parliament very intensively, have exchanged views here and have repeatedly stressed that the vote of parliament is very important to you. i'm very grateful for that, too. we have a situation where on the one hand we have industry, and on the other hand we are strengthening consumer rights, and in the middle is the retailer. the dealer may be the one who suffers the most. i myself suggested in the committee, and i am very grateful to mr konrad for his support, that we should also strengthen the trader by introducing, for example, an investment protection clause. one point under discussion is the transitional period for the so-called location clause and the question of a review. i think we should not be afraid of the review. if we think today that we have a certain transitional period, and if we are convinced today that it may not apply, then we should state this decisively, we should justify it, and then we, those who represent it today, have already been right. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we as the european parliament will decide tomorrow, and i would be glad if the commission, starting with president prodi, although we are not formally involved in the decision-making process here, would respect the vote of those who are the only elected representatives of the european people. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would first like to say to the president-in-office that he should not be fooled by the low turnout in this house. we are very interested in latin america. we might be acting like a semiconductor. sometimes it's like that, the more vacancies, the better the quality. perhaps that is also the case in parliament. i would like to say to the commission, as mr fernández martín did, that it should speed up the implementation of the projects. when we members of parliament travel to latin america, we always get the following reply to our proposals: yes, you make good proposals. they decide to give money, but the money doesn't arrive. the credibility of the european union does not depend on a long wish list, but on whether we do what we promise. so my request, and i assume i speak for the whole parliament, is that you also carry out the projects. pay the money we decide to pay. thirdly, and i would like to address this to the latin americans who are not here today: the more latin america unites, the more mercosur unites, the andean countries unite, indeed all of latin america unites, the greater their weight in the negotiations with the european union and also with other countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. our negotiations with mercosur and other regions suffer from the fact that we are not dealing with one voice, but with many. it is also true that this slows down the negotiation process. i don't negotiate myself, but i've had a lot of people tell me that. it would be better if you spoke with one voice. i would also like to emphasize what i really liked about madrid, namely a parallel event, the mercosur-europe business forum. this was the third meeting between entrepreneurs, business associations and politicians from mercosur and europe. we need, as we have with the united states, an economic and technological dialogue between latin america and europe. perhaps the commission can do its part. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. we are currently discussing in the european parliament several directives which, incidentally, offer them trade opportunities, a directive on biofuels - we are also offering them new markets - and a directive on carbon trading as a result of the kyoto agreement. this too opens up new opportunities for cooperation, to the benefit of latin america. all of this deserves to be discussed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i support the resolution tabled by the epp, spe, liberal and uen. i think it is particularly good that we emphasize the common values between europe and latin america at the beginning of the joint resolutions, because it is important that we look at this partnership not only economically but also politically, that we talk about the common values and the things that follow from them. i think that some of the elements that the greens have tried to bring in are also positive, that we should talk more about sustainability, for example. but overall, the resolution of the greens and the uen too is too negative: opposed to the usa, against globalisation, against free trade. i don't think this is going to get us anywhere. we must have a better balance between legitimate criticism on individual points and constructive cooperation. i fully support the remarks made by mr salafranca sánchez-neyra on the budget. it is no use talking a lot and holding big summits and then at the same time providing less money. the commission has repeatedly proposed this in recent years. we have prevented this from happening again and again, but the commission should really make constructive proposals from the outset. mrs malmström and mr queiró have said a lot about cuba. i think it is very important that we do not send the wrong signals to cuba now that democracy in cuba is crying out for its right. we are against the embargo, of course, but we are also against dictatorship and human rights violations. that is why there can be no concessions for cuba in dialogue with the european union unless the human rights and democratic situation in cuba improve. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that, of course, we can agree to free trade with mexico and chile on a reciprocal basis, perhaps not on the same timetable, but with countries like nicaragua, honduras and bolivia we should also put unilateral preferences in the foreground, and i think that these countries have the same right to preferential treatment as most acp countries. i think that should be more part of the dialogue.
- mr. stockton, i appreciate the kind words you've spoken about my importance, but i have to say that i have a gun in my house, and that's quite enough.
- thank you very much, commissioner. have a good trip and kiss the ground when you land.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr deprez, on behalf of my group, for his excellent report on europol. we have spoken about this subject many times in this parliament and i think we all agree that europol is an important and proper authority of the european union. it creates greater security for citizens and can help us to curb cross-border crime. to ensure that, we need good staff, which of course costs money. we're in agreement on that. it is for this reason that it hurts a little to have to make our present position clear on the question of employees' salaries. i am very sorry that, unfortunately, as far as the officials are concerned, we simply have to deal with sanctions at the moment. we did not want to deal with officials, but with the council, but that is the situation at the moment as far as the parliamentary side is concerned. we have been asked, and here is our answer. we are calling for the establishment of structures which will enable parliament to control europol. the council cannot ignore this for the long term. i say to the council: the cooperation of the vast majority of parliament will depend on his conduct on this issue. my group sees the strengthening of parliament as one of the most important points for the future of a stable europe. the success of enlargement also depends directly on the parliamentarisation of europe. this applies to all areas, including internal policy and internal security. we do not want to be involved in decisions on money alone, we want to be involved in shaping domestic policy from parliament. budgetary law is part of this design. in this context, i would like to remind you that we have been very cooperative so far. the council has our full support for the post-9/11 measures. we have fully agreed to the rapid fight against terrorism. we also carried the lists of individuals and groups whose assets were to be frozen without hesitation, because we were convinced that this was the right thing to do. we have added to our agenda key elements of the fight against terrorism, in cooperation with the council and the commission. we are now expecting a move from the council, after our full support. we've made the advance. now it's up to the council to come to us. until that happens, we will support the proposal by rapporteur deprez on europol to reject the initiative of belgium and spain and hope that the officials of europol will understand us.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european convention has been meeting here since february. the commission's proposals are not only a means of improving the quality of life of the citizens of the union, but also a means of ensuring that the citizens of the union are not excluded from the european union. but all this does not seem to matter at europol. the tasks of this authority are decided by the governments among themselves, not by the council acting by majority vote, which is not exactly the epitome of transparency and democracy. we as the european parliament are being kept completely out of control and co-decision, and that is why i am saying quite clearly here: it is and remains a scandal that the governments of the member states refuse to change this. while democratic influence and control remain outside, the responsibilities of europol have been gradually expanding since 1998. there was a renewed surge after 9/11, keywords being money laundering and counter-terrorism. the commission is now considering the possibility of extending the tasks of europol once again. the preparations for enlargement are already under way there. according to newspaper reports, new buildings have already been built at the headquarters of the authority and the first contact officers from candidate countries, such as poland, have started their work. all these astonishing changes are taking place without the european parliament having the slightest opportunity to be informed and to exercise control. it has no right to request a debate on the annual activity report of the authority, nor to refer the director to the competent parliamentary committee. parliament is not even given the right to send two representatives to the supervisory board. we as directly elected members of parliament are still dependent on the newspapers for information, and that is why my group, mr deprez, supports your call for the initiative of belgium and spain to be rejected.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. (the sitting was suspended at 7.55 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the term mid-term review in the context of agenda 2000 is one of the key terms in the current policy debate at european level. each of us has his or her own personal preferences on this important subject. the debate in the committee on agriculture and the number of amendments tabled are proof of this. the two rapporteurs deserve our thanks for their earnest efforts to incorporate the legitimate concerns of their colleagues as fully as possible in their reports. the mid-term review must be an option for the future as a basis for the balance sheet, i.e. agenda 2000 must be a binding framework until 2006. the common agricultural policy must be developed on this basis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. our common agricultural policy must be long-term and predictable for all, which means that we must not lose sight of the objective of reducing bureaucracy through simplification. the production forms desired by society are to be achieved mainly by appropriate incentives and less by prohibitions and bans. a big question is how do we maintain and keep the countryside alive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to promote the development of the sector. we also want to strengthen the second pillar. but what does this mean in the agricultural sector? the aim must be to make it clear that landscape and environmental services do not 'cost nothing' but receive a traceable market value. the first objective is reliability and fair competition for the farmer, while giving farms more freedom to take a holistic view of their performance. the second objective is to ensure that the products are of excellent quality, regardless of the form of production, and that the necessary income is obtained. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. both reports and a large part of the amendments are based on the political will to continue the berlin decisions and to shape the enlargement of the community on the basis of this european agricultural model. the main concern is to maintain the market organization payment, with the instrument of volume regulation being a financial compensation as provided for. this longterm approach has been a cornerstone of the success of the cap and should not be underestimated. the development of cooperation models for rural development as an economic factor for the agricultural profession is appropriate to enhance competitiveness at national level. this requires a high quality of production and a high degree of natural management. the main content of the two reports is to ensure the multifunctionality of the european agricultural model in the long term. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council together. what is missing is a broad social debate on whether the risks of multifunctionality can be accepted. i mean, yeah. in conclusion, i would like to say that i am against any kind of regression of magnitude. the european agricultural model has not yet required this, and this speaks to the viability and the possibilities of the common agricultural policy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. since the vote in committee, we have tried to find a compromise with the council on the points at issue. we all wanted to avoid a conciliation procedure, but i must add that we are not going to do it at any cost. mrs paciotti has made it very simple from the outset, expressly stating that she supports all the points that the council accepts. it is a very strange position for a member of parliament to be in. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and we have also discussed this package with the council presidency in numerous meetings and discussions. the council, as always very tactfully, has of course cut our package and negotiated all the compromise proposals with the various parties involved individually. this has led us to accept, firstly, as a compromise on the issue of data retention, that national legal standards may differ from general european law, i.e. that they do not have to be decided on a case-by-case basis. we have also waived the time limit and have therefore, in effect, given way almost entirely to the council's position. in the case of e-mail advertising, we have agreed to the general opt-in despite strong reservations. the prerequisite for me was that there is a wide scope of application if there is a contact between interested parties and companies. instead, we have a restricted wording - companies can only advertise products that are similar and those that have already been requested by the customer. the scope of the cooperation we are proposing will also be reduced. i could have accepted all these restrictions as a compromise and i can accept it if the council had met us in the last question and had really accepted the opt-out position in the lists of participants. the council, however, only wanted to go along with a variant in which the decision is left to the member states. but this means that the council has not accepted any of parliament's key points, not even remotely. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. if the council wants to play poker here, we will play along, and that means for us to stand firm on this issue and support amendment no 14 by mr cappato. otherwise, we have indeed lost almost nothing by the unofficial negotiation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i am sure you have also received the letter from various civil rights groups which deals with the very point which has now become very important in this directive. the question is whether data retention, i.e. the storage of call data, should be allowed. this is not just some push for a little more surveillance, but a new quality of government surveillance. until now, police and other law enforcement agencies have only had access to what was spoken or written from the time of the surveillance. the aim of this paper is to introduce the possibility of retrospective interception of communications and thus also of retrospective restriction of fundamental rights. this is the new quality of the security state, which is aimed precisely at the destruction of privacy! what happens to the data the government collects about you and your surfing habits? the data are stored together. they'll be passed on to the next government. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. after all, even before september 11th, it was not clear how basic rights were being eroded here with the consent of western democrats. in germany, there is experience of such preventive restrictions on fundamental rights. the radical pardon did not charge those affected with illegal acts, but merely with doing things the government did not want. if i am to withdraw data on right-wing extremism from the internet today and lose my job as a civil servant tomorrow, then that will also be the case because of the directive we are discussing today. this paper still has privacy written on it, even though there's no one in it anymore. the only question that remains is what title the council's proposed initiative to impose data retention across the eu will have. the directive under discussion today paves the way for this push to develop the pan-european surveillance state.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. 'very well tightened up', said a major monday newspaper about the emissions legislation we are going to adopt tomorrow, and indeed we have taken another step with this legislation towards reducing the combustion behaviour of engines in relation to air pollutants. the new legislation now on the table will make motorcycles and scooters as clean as a modern euro iii car in 2006. it was a long process to achieve that. the motorised two-wheelers have been left somewhat out of the emissions legislation in the past. in this respect, a situation has arisen where the permitted limits are currently many times higher than the limits for vehicles such as cars or lorries. there is no justification for a motorcycle with just one person on it, or one person on it, to emit 17 times as much as a car with maybe four people in it. it was therefore right and necessary that we should also have introduced sensible legislation here, and i believe that the result we have finally achieved is demonstrable. we have set limits which reduce the permitted emissions by an average of 75%. i think that is a figure that we can all be proud of. we will achieve this in two binding stages. we had a little bit of a fight, but we finally agreed on this second binding stage, so that in 2006 this substantial reduction can be achieved for all newly registered motorcycles and scooters. but we have added safety nets to the limitation, so that these limits are not only nice for the approval process, but actually on the road, they actually reduce the emissions of motorcycles and scooters. we have agreed that the limits must be given a lifetime of 30,000 km. so in practice, in the field, you have to make sure that the bikes stay clean. then we agreed that if there's a reasonable suspicion, authorities can do a field surveillance, control models of a type. is there a mechanical, engineering or perhaps maintenance failure that leads to higher emissions? and we agreed that there's no cheating, that there's no electronic shutdowns. there's this one or the other example where manufacturers are able to show great results for the test cycle, but then when driven outside the test cycle, it's emitted on hell come out. this can't be. we have also agreed on this, so that in total we have a package of what is hand and foot. this hand-foot-holding is also reflected in the fact that we have changed the test conditions for type approval somewhat. so far, a warm motorcycle has been tested at 30 miles. this is of course a far cry from the real operating conditions. so we said, the measurement has to start with a cold motorcycle and it has to include higher speeds, it has to include a cross-country part, because of course in practice a motorcycle is rarely driven at more than 50 km. we have finally agreed on this in the conciliation procedure. i think it is fair to say that this is another piece of european air quality history, a true success story of the european union, which is making europe's air much cleaner. i thank all those who have contributed to it. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. there has been clear evidence for several years that the republic of korea is significantly and persistently distorting international competition in the shipbuilding sector through wto-infringing subsidies. in june 2001, the commission declared the negotiations with korea to be unsuccessful and recommended that the council and parliament initiate wto proceedings, accompanied by temporary safeguard measures for the highly vulnerable european shipbuilding sectors. parliament agreed to this procedure and also recommended that gas tankers should be included in these protective measures. the commission has now received a study which examined the competitive situation in various types of shipbuilding, particularly in the field of gas tankers. this study has now been submitted to the council. i have a few questions to put to the commissioner on this short matter: first, when will the study be made available to parliament and the public? secondly, does the study confirm the need to initiate wto proceedings against korea? thirdly, is there a difference of opinion within the commission on the study? fourthly, when will the commission initiate the wto procedure and will it continue to provide for the introduction of safeguard measures for the affected sectors? fifthly, how many jobs in europe are threatened by the distortions of competition that exist? sixthly, how many jobs have already been lost because of the lack of wto action and the lack of safeguard measures over the past two years? seventhly, how many orders has european industry lost in the last two years? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the honourable member, mrs riis-jørgensen, is present and the situation in the council is similar to that in parliament. there is a great deal of controversy in the member states as to whether the commission has designed an appropriate procedure by proposing, on the one hand, to initiate a wto procedure and, at the same time, to cushion it with safeguard measures. the vast majority of this parliament, when we voted on the riis-jørgensen report, thought that this was the right way to go. i assume that the vast majority will continue to hold this view in the future, but i would ask the commissioner to inform us of the measures he intends to take and to explain this to the council in the context of the new debate after the study has been submitted to the council.
commission. – mr president, despite the support given by the european parliament last november and the commission's expectations for a successful outcome of the discussions in the council, no decision on the temporary defence mechanism, tdm, was taken at the meeting of industry ministers in december last year. on the request of european industry, the commission has launched an update of its trade barrier regulation investigation which has just been concluded. the commission took note of the findings of the tbr report at its session on 7 may and authorised its transmission to the council. the updated tbr report will be discussed by member states at the tbr committee on 29 may. the updating investigation concludes that the findings of the first investigation as concerns the sectors of container ships and product and chemicals tankers were confirmed, namely that the korean subsidies in question were causing adverse affects to the eu industry within the meaning of the wto subsidies agreement. as regards developments in 2001 in the lng – natural gas carriers – sector, the updated tbr reports stresses the considerable increase in the korean market shares and concludes that further examination is necessary to determine whether a consistent trend emerges over the longer term. the commission will therefore continue to monitor the market. the commission's proposal on the temporary defence mechanism on which the european parliament was consulted in november 2001, is provisionally planned to be discussed again during the next industry council meeting which is scheduled for 6 june. the commission holds that a joint double response is necessary, that is the wto complaint and the temporary defence mechanism. furthermore, the commission welcomes the common position agreed by oecd members in paris to launch fresh discussions on a new agreement on shipbuilding involving major non-oecd shipbuilding nations. the commission considers that these are important steps towards addressing the problems raised by the korean practices, both in connection with the tbr case and temporary defence mechanism and, in the long-term, the oecd agreement. it therefore intends to actively participate in these discussions and carefully evaluate developments. there were also other detailed questions, i can transmit some replies in the form of our annual report and after having discussed with my colleagues who are working with this file, mr lamy and mr monti.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. almost exactly one year ago, on 14 may 2001, the council authorised the commission to initiate a dispute settlement procedure before the wto in order to put an end to unfair competition practices by the republic of korea. since then, not only has there been no improvement, but the disparities have continued to grow. the international competition is still extremely distorted by korean price dumping, with the result that the european union has lost further global market shares. there is a danger that structural imbalances will become even more acute. korean shipyards are, for example, actively seeking contracts for certain types of vessels, such as cruise ships, which have been the domain of europe. these continuing pressures are affecting an industry in europe which has had to cope with difficult adjustment processes, particularly in recent years. this applies both to capacity reductions and to the improvement of quality and productivity at the remaining sites. the regional effects of this structural change were and are particularly severe in the peripheral areas. the commission's proposal for safeguard measures is essential for the duration of the wto dispute settlement procedure if european shipbuilding is not to be put at risk. the council must therefore be expected to approve such temporary safeguard measures without delay. in addition, the procedures for the collection of anti-dumping and countervailing duties in accordance with the general agreement on tariffs and trade should be used consistently. threats have not had a discernible impact on korea's attitude so far. clear action is now required!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president, it is now really late! i admit i am tired, but i am not too tired to fight for our jobs in european shipbuilding. in the next few days, the whole world, or at least the football-loving world, will be looking at japan and south korea. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the background remains the same, namely dumping prices in korean shipyards. the distortion of competition described, and only recently confirmed by a community investigation, is reinforced by the expiry of subsidies in europe. the result is that more and more maritime industries are closing down, and the large number of redundancies only allows one conclusion: european shipbuilding is suffering an existential crisis! what are we doing in europe? as a coastal mp, i get asked that question all the time. i would like to say to those concerned that parliament has done its homework, but the other two main actors are neglecting their responsibilities. a little buzzing will make my annoyance clear. we are now discussing the third resolution in parliament and have already given our consent to temporary protection measures. however, there is still no green light for support for the yards. why would you do that? because the council has still not reached agreement and the commission unfortunately still has to take into account ship types which have already become part of the wto complaint. i would therefore like to make the main points of our common policy clear once again in this house. we urgently need a joint action. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because otherwise we're in a football game without a full back-up to try again from the beginning. the mills in the appeal process are slow to grind. but the shipbuilding sector in europe is dying. we should not underestimate the declaratory effect of the wto complaint, but it does have a powerful immediate effect. the resolution before you clearly calls for both, so that i expect broad support for the intergroup motion in tomorrow's vote.
- the minutes of the previous session have been circulated. are there any observations ?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the minutes wrongly state that i only asked the president to take disciplinary action following the statement and the description of the assault by mrs klaas. that's true, but it's only half the truth! i have also publicly asked him to bring a criminal complaint to the competent law enforcement authorities against the staff of this house who were guilty of failure to provide assistance in the assault on mrs klaas. i ask that the minutes be corrected accordingly.
- mr mombaur, i was present myself at mrs klass's and your speeches. i do remember that you brought up the issue of not assisting anyone in danger. i can inform the house and you that the bureau dealt with this matter yesterday and that there will be a written report on this which will shed light on all the circumstances. i would ask my colleagues here to add this aspect of not assisting anyone in danger to the minutes - on page 17 in the german version - on mr mombaur's speech. (parliament adopted the minutes of the previous sitting) communication of the council's common positions - composition of committees: see minutes.
- doc. a5-0162/2002 by mr hervé novelli, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (com (2001) 423 - c5-0438/2001 - 2001/0172 (cns)) on state aid to the coal industry.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. the commission is not ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the proposal for a regulation which the commission has put forward almost a year ago is a good and reasonable compromise between the conflicting interests which existed in the commission and in the member states. the fact that these conflicting interests and views have of course also existed in the european parliament, in the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, shows that this is not such a bad compromise, and if we then agree in the second reading that we want to support this very proposal from the commission, which is almost a year old, that speaks a little bit in favour of this proposal. we, my group, will support it in the vote afterwards, without amendment, and we will adhere to the agreement reached in committee. nevertheless, if mr novelli has made some critical remarks from his point of view, i shall of course make them from my point of view, because with any support in detail one can very well have a different opinion. mr novelli, if the translation is correct, you have said twice that the commission's proposal is to end production aid in 2007. that is not correct, but the production aid is to run until 2010. that's fine too. the closure aid is to end in 2007. i have a small problem, however: if we want to have such a strategic base and, of course, also need capacity adjustments in the long run, i can imagine that we will also need aid for closure and restructuring, especially if we say that this base must also be supported by the aid authorization law. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet possible to conclude that the commission has not taken a decision on the matter. i have some difficulties on another point, namely the question of the degressivity of aid. it is true that they must be set in a degressive manner. the commission's proposals seem a little too general to me. i would recommend that the council should think a little about whether it can refer back to what the ecj decided in a corresponding judgment in 1998. the last point is the post-2007 revision clause which was mentioned in the proposal: we should think about it again, otherwise we will give our full support to the commission's proposal. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. coal will continue to play an important role in energy supply in the foreseeable future. i agree with the commission on this point, even though the share of coal in energy production is now quite small compared with other primary energy sources. i think that the commission should have been even more careful in pointing out the unused capacity for coal-fired power generation, since improved technical methods, and in particular combined heat and power, can achieve a higher level of efficiency. the right integration of indigenous primary energy sources and therefore coal into the european strategy for energy security inevitably leads to the right of member states to grant aid in this sector, since community coal production is not competitive with imports due to geological conditions, environmental and social standards in the eu. the commission's proposals for operating aid, aid for closure and aid for old-age pensions are therefore both useful and necessary, although the duration of this regulation may well be disputed. what i miss in the commission proposal is that, in the context of the forthcoming enlargement of the european union, it is essential that the coal-producing candidate countries should be included in the scope of this regulation as soon as they become members, and the time limits now provided for them are far too short to allow them to undertake the necessary and painful restructuring of coal mining, for example in poland and the czech republic. poland produces more coal than the entire european union combined. in 2000, the figure was 102 million tonnes, compared with 85 million tonnes for the european union. we need to catch up. my group supports the commission's proposal.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has made a proposal and parliament is not proposing any amendment. the member states who wish to apply coal aid must decide and be responsible for this themselves, also in view of the fact that very high subsidies are paid here, the funds of which may be lacking for the promotion of other industries of the future. the european union is only required to determine the compatibility of this aid with the european market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it must not appear that the council is being led to achieve the kind of unnecessary unanimity now sought by unprecedented bribery on the model of the nice bribery conference. it is not appropriate to sanction clearly unlawful aid from other member states by means of a unanimous decision. the commission has decided to initiate the procedure provided for in article 93 (2) of the eec treaty in respect of aid granted to shippers in france, italy and the netherlands. this amounts to a subsidy of eur 7 000 per year per lorry to hauliers in some countries and to hauliers in all other countries. it is a scandal that such a thing should be sanctioned unanimously in the council in breach of the european treaties! such a policy, madam vice-president, is a flagrant violation of the treaties with unforeseeable consequences! i note that the conditions required by the treaties for such authorizations - even unanimous ones - are not met, and i call on the commission to challenge these arbitrary results in the council before the european court of justice and, if possible, to prevent them.
the commission is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a regulation on state aid to the coal industry. i know that this has been a complex issue, but as has been shown in the speeches today, i believe that in the end - and mr westendorp said it very well - the text we have presented is the only one around which this consensus can be built and which can allow a way out and a solution to a treaty which is expiring. as mr novelli said, this is an innovation. yes, in a certain sense it is an innovation when we move from a guarantee offered by a specific treaty to an internal regulation within the general rules. in any event, i hope and trust that the council can now reach a political agreement at the energy council on 7 june, and i hope that, thanks to the votes of this parliament, it will also have the support of this house, and that we, with the council, will complete the procedure for adopting this regulation. the commission proposal is based on the green paper's reflections on a european strategy for energy security and supply, and it is true that it is not a question here of whether we are threatened or not. i think what we have to consider is whether we are more fragile or less fragile, whether we are more secure or less secure, because i think that's the concept that we have to keep in mind. and it's not exactly the same to be threatened as to be more fragile. and i believe frankly, and that is why i have made this proposal, that it is precisely the maintenance of strategic coal reserves that allows us to be safer and less vulnerable in the face of certain crisis situations. the whole energy supply chain presents precisely those points where we are very vulnerable. i think that after the events of 11 september, we must consider that these are indeed very remote risks, but unfortunately they exist and we cannot ignore them. over the last few years, the european commission has been presenting proposals to encourage the contribution of renewable energies, mainly within the framework of indigenous primary energy sources. proposals that are supposed to increase our security of supply. in this respect, it is important that the member states of the union which have coal resources have a community framework which enables them to continue to maintain access to them and to maintain a minimum level of production which guarantees such access, within that approach to security of supply, to a minimum level of indigenous primary energy. the commission's proposal to withdraw references to the contribution of coal and renewable energies, to the creation of a base of autonomous primary energy sources, is not consistent with the principles of strengthening security of supply and, as i have just said, we cannot accept it. we want to emphasize that when it comes to energy and environmental issues, the commission's approach is global and takes into account all the issues related to energy sources and their use. as regards the amendment stating that the aim of the new regulation is to incorporate coal products into community law, the commission considers that coal products will de facto come within the scope of the ec treaty once the ecsc treaty expires. we therefore consider this amendment unnecessary. we believe that the commission's proposal, ladies and gentlemen, is a proposal which i would even call severe because of the requirement to continue the restructuring of industry by closing down those production units which do not contribute to the plan for safeguarding coal resources and by reinforcing the principles of progressive reduction and transparency in the granting of state aid. but i understand that it is what can and should be presented at this time. we also believe that it is consistent with the three pillars of the principle of sustainable development: security of supply, economic rationality, social and regional cohesion. a moment ago we heard how - by providing very direct knowledge of a region like asturias - these questions were raised. the commission has also proposed a number of measures to promote the use of cleaner technology. finally, our proposal - which i hope will receive the favourable opinion of the european parliament today - takes account of the dimension of enlargement of the european union, as some of the honourable members have said in their speeches. poland and the czech republic must continue the restructuring process which has been under way for more than a decade and, thanks to this proposal, we are giving them a framework within which to carry out these changes. ladies and gentlemen, mr president, i would like to thank very sincerely all those who have spoken, even those who have been the most critical, and i think that the text is a balanced text, which i understand does not satisfy some people completely and some people not so much, but i think that it is what can and must be done at the moment to maintain stability and a clear framework of relations in this key sector in some european regions in particular, but also key in the face of enlargement and key in the face of security of energy supply.
- thank you very much, commissioner de palacio! the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0135/2002) by mr philip charles bradbourn, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision (com (2001) 544 - c5-0478/2001 - 2001/0229 (cod)) amending decision 1692/96/ec on community guidelines for the development of the transeuropean transport network.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think there is no doubt that everyone wants to have a well-planned and sustainable transport system as the backbone of europe. however, what we have seen so far is a lack of planning and the implementation of outdated projects of national interest with dubious cost-benefit analyses. the commission's paper is still not free of this. the eu is not here to fulfil national wish lists, but has a macroeconomic responsibility, and that responsibility lies first and foremost in sustainable mobility and environmentally friendly means of transport, which are the future, and that means rail, above all. planning must be consistent with eu policies such as environmental protection. i therefore urge once again that planning for the transeuropean networks finally move away from the corridor approach and towards the territorial approach, that is to say, planning from the objective, what we want to achieve, and then looking at what is the best and most sustainable solution, which is also suitable for future generations. the attempt, and i shall now turn to the river basins in particular, to build huge reservoirs in europe, whereas rivers have another meaning, namely that they are habitats for people, for tourism, for the natural environment, is to be questioned in my view. i would like to stress once again that we must make ships more flexible, that is to say, we must make greater use of small flat-bottomed vessels for short-term, flexible and thus intermodal transport than we do of the large river-going structures.
- madam president! - what is it? i can agree with mr cocilovo and with mr sterckx's approach. today we are discussing a moderate revision of the tens. the real big revision will be in 2004, and then we will certainly sit down together and formulate sensible proposals for the tens. the rapporteur deserves our thanks for his work, but also for his ruthless conclusions. the crucial point is that three of the 14 projects on the essen list have been implemented, which means that the council was too silent at the time. he did not listen to parliament, and stubbornness, not wisdom, was the guiding principle. no one - not even parliament - can tell a member state when and where to implement a project. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the rapporteur has therefore proposed a very good idea: if a project is not implemented within a certain time, it will be deleted from the priority list. this proposal from the commission is realistic and reasonable. it is a question of environmentally friendly modes of transport, and we should therefore support it accordingly tomorrow. i would say to the council that it is well advised not to invoke an institutional conflict at this point. it is not worth it, because we have already made a number of changes to the tens to that end. that's why we should work well together... (the president cut the speaker off)
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. we shall be adopting a supplementary and amending budget today, which i am sure will please the finance ministers. because they're getting 10.5 billion euros back. we have withdrawn our amendments at first reading. we do this on the basis of mutual trust. we must rely on what the council has done and the council can rely on our approach. we did this because commissioner schreyer said last time that the funds we had reinstated could not be used. but we have to ask ourselves, why aren't the runoff rates better than we find them? we have a total backlog of eur 113 billion, of which eur 82 billion is in the structural funds. but it is not just the structural funds, but also 11.4 billion in the field of internal policies and 12.9 billion in the field of category 4. this cannot be tolerated in the long term. we must, after many years of lamenting the fact that these residues have to be removed, actually make a bit more concrete. the question is whether the fact that some of the programmes adopted are not coming into force until too late really matters. the question is also whether the way in which we allocate these funds, the amount of bureaucracy involved, does not prevent the use of money, which has been made available by the european taxpayer to improve the situation of many people in europe, in many places. i urge the socialist group to make a commitment in the coming weeks - and i ask the commission in particular to take action - to a joint efficiency force. this efficiency force should be composed of external experts from the administrative and administrative sciences, but also from the court of auditors, because of course if we want to work more efficiently, if we also want to work faster and less bureaucratically, the whole thing must be managed properly. these external people have to make suggestions to us on how to improve the application procedures. in addition, we will conduct surveys of those concerned: the commission officials concerned, the national and regional partners, the firms and organisations, the regional banks involved in the allocation of funds. the euro info centres, which have a great deal of expertise, should also be involved. the aim must not be to transfer these funds to the european budget and then return them, but to use them effectively for the specific policies we have decided on. we must act now more decisively than ever! (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. amendment no 1 - which is important in this vote - must be based on the english version. the german original does not reflect the position of the economic committee. there's been a mistake. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on this matter. i ask you to take note of that.
- mr president, i have to go. i have just been going over the voting list with the rapporteur and we have run into a problem with the voting procedure. we are unanimous in our wish to replace the first part of what we decided in committee with the epp amendment no 9. if we proceed accordingly with the voting list, we run the risk of accepting part of amendment no 22 as if amendment no 9 were finished. at least that is what the voting list says. we have agreed - and i think the rapporteur confirms this because we have just discussed this - to reject the first part of what we decided in committee - namely amendment no 22 - to agree to the second part and then to agree to amendment no 9 by the epp as well, in order to suspend the first part which we rejected.
in writing. - (de) i did not vote for the compromise amendment on article 15 (1) by my colleagues paciotti and palacio. the amendment to article 15 (1) and the related question of the obligation on member states to take measures, inter alia, to maintain national security, is not balanced in my view. the powers or obligations of national legislators with regard to the obligation to store data have not been limited or satisfactorily defined. with the amendments proposed by the council before us, member states can oblige the telecommunications companies to collect systematically all the data produced for all users and to make them available on request, subject to authorization. neither the important criteria specifying which data could be collected, and in what time period, nor those indicating who should bear the costs of data storage and processing (which in turn depend on the volume and time) were established. this remains a matter for the member states. furthermore, it was not specified what obligations, liability criteria and security measures were to be applied to the companies responsible for storing the data. at present, these issues are being addressed under the third pillar. i have been informed that a framework decision on the storage obligation is being prepared. in addition, the topic is being discussed in the cyber crime forum, set up at the initiative of the commission, where all relevant parties (e.g. judicial authorities, communications companies, data protection advocates) are represented. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - (de) i welcome the decision to include the motorway through the fichtelgebirge in the transeuropean networks. the enlargement to the east cannot be blocked by traffic jams. border regions can benefit greatly from enlargement. at the same time, efficient communication routes must be created to avoid the inconvenience of paralysed traffic. the doubling of crossborder transit traffic is still to be expected.
in writing. - (de) the political weight of the madrid summit is undeniable, since the states meeting there represent 870 million inhabitants and a quarter of the states of the un. despite some partial successes such as the association agreements with chile and mexico, the record since the rio summit in 1995 is not very convincing; i doubt that, despite all the declarations of intent, madrid will lead to a qualitative leap forward in relations between the eu and the latin american and caribbean states if three issues are not examined concretely and in a constructive spirit. 1. the latin america is an interesting trading partner for europe. the german economy alone has a trade surplus of 3 billion euros. but the real beneficiaries are the united states, which is imposing its geostrategic and economic interests on the structure of the free trade area and protecting it from external competition. europe is doing itself harm by abandoning latin america to the domination of the big american groups and banks, without any alternative. 2. the the negative consequences of unbridled globalisation are more striking in latin america than anywhere else, as shown by the impoverishment of large sections of the population, even in the middle classes, as well as the financial and state crisis in argentina. the world social forum in porto alegre has given rise to a counter-power which is also spreading to europe. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - (de) unfortunately, this is not the first time we have dealt with this subject. and unfortunately, nothing has changed for the better in the last few months. although the commission has found in its investigation of the international competitive situation that there are dumping practices and outright distortions of competition, the council and the commission have not been able to provide effective support to the shipbuilding industry. of course, it is too easy to blame only south korea's subsidy policy. the present situation is certainly also the result of the policy of global competition for places of establishment, as promoted by the member states and the commission in the wto. we have recently received news of the bankruptcy of the modern shipyard in szczecin, poland. thousands of jobs have been lost in a country which, with eu membership, is certainly facing major upheavals. no one in europe can and should hope to profit from it. in many cases, european shipyards are located in structurally weak regions. this has dramatic employment consequences; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. we cannot therefore accept the inaction of the council and the commission, and we are waiting for new initiatives at international level to solve this problem. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
- mr president, i have to go. i'm not going to say anything about legionnaires. mr president, i have a question for you which has nothing to do with the guinness book of records, but with what is possibly the longest immunity waiver in the world. what is the state of play in the procedure for the waiver of immunity of our colleague marcello dell'utri? last thursday the spanish supreme court rejected a request for the dismissal of the lawyers of mr berlusconi and mr dell'utri and authorized the spanish judiciary to continue the proceedings against the two men, including mr dell'utri, who is still our colleague. now, this procedure for the waiver of immunity is not about dumplings obtained in traffic, parking tickets, but about serious criminal offences, fraud, tax evasion in millions, suspicion of membership of a mafia association, etc. for over a year and a half, this procedure for the waiver of immunity has been lodged with the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights. the spanish judiciary has now settled the questions which concerned the spanish. there is no longer any reason to leave this procedure to the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights. i would now ask you, mr president, to do the following: first, if you have a more recent case, please bring it to our attention. secondly, if you do not have any new information, i would ask you to contact the chairman of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights with the aim of bringing the matter to the plenary as soon as possible. we in the socialist group want this for two reasons, firstly because of the facts and because of mr dell'utri, but also because it is unacceptable that such a wide-ranging procedure should not be brought before the house for such a long period of time. it is not only hindering us as colleagues, it is also hindering the colleagues concerned from being able to make the necessary statements here in the plenary and in the committee responsible to justify themselves. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i would like to thank mrs banotti for pointing out that we have had a bacterial problem of this kind before, two years ago, before the friday of plenary sessions was abolished in a plenary session. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of presenting this report. i do not mean that i do not take the subject seriously and that it should not be seriously considered, but i do think that it should not be used to stir up emotions, but that it should really be used to conduct an objective examination and not to mix up different issues that have nothing to do with each other. if there was a problem with the building, we'd have to move across the river to the palais de l'europe. we could stay there temporarily for this part-session. but i really want to speak out against this hysteria and this mood-making which is being practised here on a serious subject.
the committee on budgetary control adopted an opinion on the proposal. - mr president, i have to go. i would like to begin by congratulating the two rapporteurs on this debate and on these reports. i speak for the committee on budgetary control and i would like to say that 14 committees have submitted their opinions. mr. corbett, it was a lot of work just sifting through and classifying it. congratulations on making it. the committee on budgetary control has dealt with two subjects. the first concerns the court of auditors. you have done all this, in particular the appointment of the members of the court of auditors, as we do in the committee and in the plenary. this has been the case since the two reports by mr lamassoure and mr bourlanges in 1992 and 1995. i had to write it down so the rules would be clear. the second issue concerns olaf. it was a very controversial issue how the members should be treated in relation to olaf or how they should act themselves. we had then submitted an opinion from the committee on budgetary control to the constitutional committee, but it was received differently in the plenary. our position was therefore rejected at the time. then there was a lawsuit. i think the time has come for us to be able to present our members in a consistent and correct way in terms of treatment and action towards olaf, so that they are not thrown into a pot with the administration. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i want to support this. this is also the final answer to the request of the committee on budgetary control, which you were unable to take into account in your report. i would be glad if we could vote for it. then we wouldn't need the lawsuit and the appeal.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the euro as a currency in the euro area. - mr president, i have to go. the rapporteur has certainly faced a very important challenge in shaping the reform of the rules of procedure in such a way that this parliament can work in a particularly efficient, democratic and transparent way. i think that this can also contribute to a political profile of the plenary. it is therefore very important to avoid any tendency to bureaucratize the work of the plenary. i would like to thank the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy for the proposals adopted on the dialogue with the european central bank and on the economic policy guidelines. i would like to stress in this context that the relations between the institutions will change over time. we must actually re-shape these relationships so that they are always filled with new life. this should also be a feature of future policy debates; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether he is prepared to do so. i must now make a point which i think the rapporteurs and the house will have to reconsider. i think that amendment no 59 on article 110a is problematic. i see the legitimate concern to do everything possible to ensure that the right, important political debates are actually held in the plenary. but not all foreign and security policy debates are by definition of higher importance than, for example, the issues that were finally dealt with in the specialised committees, because it has become clear that only with an overwhelming majority can a second reading and a success in the council be prepared in the first place. the new rules must not lead us to organise, at the end of a debate in a committee, a vote against a report by a sham majority, which does not exist, in order to meet the formal requirements for being in the plenary. i really think this is a bureaucracy that can be avoided. the rapporteur may well come up with a better selection procedure so that we can reach an agreement this week. i think it is very important that this amendment should not be adopted in the form proposed. i would also ask you, mr rapporteur, to clarify once again what you are asking parliament and the committees to do with amendments nos 87 and 88, because we are not an executive that is dependent on pennies and pence and cents and ... (the president cut the speaker off)
adopted on 13 december. - mr president, i have to go. i was co-rapporteur on the necessary adjustments to the rules of procedure after the maastricht treaty. i know how difficult this is, but i would like to express my sincere thanks and congratulations to richard corbett. before i go into three points raised by the legal affairs committee, let me make a general remark. if we want to strengthen the plenary, if we want to lead the major political debates here - and that is a good objective - we must strengthen the responsibilities of the committees. the only way to do that is to increase the hurdles to getting from committee to plenary. it's very compelling. what richard corbett and the committee are proposing is going in the right direction. we may have to go a little further in the future. the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has always considered three points to be important: first, legislative initiatives. we are not going to vote for the report. we have a very limited right of initiative. the obstacles which parliament is erecting in our way are terrible. an initiative of mine on discrimination in legal aid, to give just one example, has been stuck in the conference of committee chairs after many, many months. take down those barriers! the second point concerns the vote on the confirmation of the president of the commission and the commission as a whole. we have very different procedures in the member states. in the circumstances in which the european parliament finds itself, i think that a secret vote, rather than a roll-call vote, is extremely important in both cases as a safeguard for the european parliament. i would like to add one last point: i agree with what has been said about olaf. a large part of my group will support this.
- mr president, i wish i had had a little more time to prepare my speech, but i'm sure i'll keep to the time. the european parliament must become the centre court of the european debate. that is our ambition, but it is not enough to want it, of course, but we must also adapt our way of working accordingly. i think that is the heart of the report adopted by the committee on constitutional affairs. this is a goal which the group of the european people's party supports in the long term. we would like to thank mr corbett very much for the many ideas he has developed here and which will help us to move forward. we would like to thank him for the precise work on a very complex legal matter. we also wish to thank him for the exemplary cooperation and openness with which he has shaped this consultation process which has been going on for one and a half years. we want our work to be more political, we want to focus on the essentials, and we want to make it a little more responsible. we want to be more political through the current hour that is to be introduced. it is strange that we always have to use instrumental crutches to bring a topical issue to this house. we must ask for explanations from the commission or the council in order to be able to comment on the burning political questions. the result is that the spectacle of the european summits continues to receive more attention than the decisions taken in this parliament. in order to achieve a better balance here, we need to amend our rules of procedure. we also want to work more concentrated. we must, as many colleagues have said, avoid time-consuming, routine decisions. we need a simplified procedure for non-disputed reports so that we can concentrate on our legislative work. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that is what i am saying. we should also be determined to work a little more responsibly once our decisions have become legal and are no longer just demands and resolutions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is not a question of the commission's being able to take action on the basis of the proposals it has put forward. we want to protect the rights of individual members and the rights of the political groups. the members of parliament must of course have the right to speak in their mother tongue here. the groups must of course have the right to put forward motions. however, in view of the enlargement to the east and in order to prevent a split in this house, we should raise the conditions for the formation of political groups a little. we must also limit - and this is my personal view - the individual procedures for submitting texts to the plenary, which are not part of the committee procedure, so that they can be better prepared, and we must limit them to cases of real urgency. i say this particularly in view of the urgency of what has become a procedure whereby a relatively small number of members can adopt parliament's decisions at a time when most of them have already left. the procedure must ensure that as many members as possible can be involved in group and committee discussions. exceptions to this rule are allowed only in cases of real urgency. the epp group supports changes in this house to improve the way we work, to make us more political, more visible and to make the european union more democratic.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. before i go into some of the proposals for amendments to our rules of procedure which my group does not share, i really do feel a sincere need to thank the rapporteur, our colleague mr corbett, for his immense work. for more than a year now we have been discussing how to make our own work in parliament more efficient and more lively. it is admirable to note the commitment with which mr corbett has worked in committee and with the other members of this house to bring about such changes. the report proposes to amend rule 50 of the rules of procedure. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a new regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. although there are many arguments in favour of this proposal, my group would like to see the current rule retained. (applause from the centre) why would you do that? the main argument against this amendment is that the extraordinary debate should remain inconsequential. the absence of a vote in the plenary on the subject in question is unacceptable in our view, not least because in our urgent debates we have so far focused on human rights violations in particular with resolutions which are an important source of encouragement and support for many of those affected in the respective countries in their struggle for democracy and human rights. no, my group does not want us to give up this important political instrument. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. it is therefore only too understandable that small groups scrutinize each paragraph. the rules of procedure must ensure equal treatment for political groups and must not restrict the parliamentary possibilities of small groups. on the basis of these premises, i would like to reject on behalf of my group the amendment proposed in the report concerning rule 110 of the rules of procedure, which provides that in future only two groups together or 32 members may table amendments in plenary, rather than individual groups. there are two problems with this proposal. firstly, it is not clear why 32 members should have more rights than one political group. secondly, we consider it to be the legitimate parliamentary right of a group to table amendments for a vote in the plenary. amendments express the political will of the political groups. the argument that the small groups would have no chance of putting forward motions anyway and would have prevented the vote, as mr van den berg has said, does not seem to me to be valid. i had asked the committee to draft the rules of procedure in gender-neutral language. richard corbett had promised me that. the last time, for some reason, it didn't happen. i hope that in cooperation with the services, this will now be taken care of.
- mr president, i have to go. i too believe that a number of sensible amendments have been proposed. i think that mr corbett has thrown out the child with the bath in some central points. my first criticism concerns the urgency of the matter. i have been dealing with the urgent matters in this house for years and i have not found that there has been any less serious and solid work done here than in any other area dealt with in this house, and i notice that it is mainly colleagues who comment on the urgent matters who have never been involved in these matters themselves. i am proud that, as a member of parliament, i have often succeeded in bringing about the release of people from unjustified detention and the removal of serious human rights violations in a matter of days, and i could call a number of witnesses who can confirm this. i therefore think that we can introduce an additional hour of time, which i do not object to. we can of course also focus and concentrate more on human rights in the case of urgent matters, but the monthly procedure for urgent matters with at least five items - 10 or 15 are usually submitted and we have to agree on five with difficulty - should be maintained. it has proved its worth, and its results are among the very great highlights and glories of this house. i would also like to oppose all the motions which restrict the small languages, which restrict the small groups, which bureaucratize and centralize this house. i would like to give just one example: we should no longer be able to show solidarity with colleagues who speak a minority language when they complain that their application is not available in their own language. we shall have member states which will hardly bring together the necessary number of twelve members. i protest , even as a representative of a great language ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the rules of procedure are the instrument by which parliament regulates its work. it is, as it were, the calling card we give out. as the only institution with democratic legitimacy in this european union, parliament is obliged to work with the greatest possible transparency and clarity, so that citizens outside can understand and assess the workings of this house. only by making the procedures as clear and simple as possible will we be able to achieve the desired acceptance of our work among the population. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this right, which is of crucial importance for budgetary control, is laid down in article 197 of the ec treaty and in article 44 of these rules of procedure. it is an expression of parliamentary control over the administration and must not be restricted. however, attempts to restrict this right have been made in the past, such as the framework agreement of july 2000, which limits access to documents and information for every member. this is one of the reasons why parliament has decided to amend this framework agreement as soon as possible. i take this opportunity to remind the president of his duty in this regard. i am very pleased that the report before us, in an addendum to rule 44 for written questions, explicitly states that the content of the questions is the sole responsibility of the questioners. this means that there can be no prior review by the president or any other body, and this too has been questioned in the past.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the european sky is becoming more mobile, and fortunately so is european air transport policy. the effects of 11 september on the air transport industry seem to be almost over, with annual growth rates of up to 5% again expected; this means that by 2015, air traffic will double. our political response to this challenge is, on the one hand, the creation of a single european airspace, and on the other hand, we need greater capacity at the congested airports. so more airport infrastructure is needed, and yet none of us can seriously imagine that we might double the number of taxiways by 2015. that is why we must generate additional capacity. the key to this is an optimal system of allocating take-off and landing rights at congested airports. the old slot regulation of 1993 is no longer able to meet the challenges of the present day, and it has not been uniformly applied by the member states because it was imprecise. it did not ensure fair and transparent allocation of the time-sharing, disadvantaged recruits and allowed for abuses such as grey market trading. the commission's proposal to re-regulate the award of slots is a necessary intermediate step. the final settlement must be the subject of discussion for the next few years. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the products and the quality of the products, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the measures to include the production of certain products. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the members for their good and thematic cooperation in the committee. we have succeeded in keeping the balance of the whole system in view, despite the differences of opinion. our improvements to the commission proposal are aimed at clarifying the commission text, at establishing uniform european criteria for the recognition of coordinated airport status, at further strengthening the powers and independence of the coordinator, at maintaining flexibility and planning security for the established airlines and at promoting flexibility and market access opportunities for new entrants. i would like to say something about the individual points. first, the crux of the regulation is the redefinition of slots as a right of use. so slots are not owned by airlines or airports, but are a public good. the committee also established that the definition of the right of use includes all airport infrastructure necessary for a flight. for the first time we have identified the link between airway slots and airport slots in order to allow better coordination between the two in the future. secondly, this is indisputable, but not without significance: we have further strengthened the position of the coordinator. we have relieved him of any liability for damages, and i believe that is essential for his independence. we have defined its powers more clearly vis-à-vis the coordination committee, it has the right to withdraw slots when airlines do not comply with their duty to provide information, and it has the right to cross-check its data with other coordinators and flight-scheduling intermediaries in order to disclose irregularities in flight schedules. thirdly, we should talk about the legitimate interests of the established airlines. the commission's proposal is not acceptable, but we are in favour of continuing to allow them to retiming in order to gradually optimise their flight plans. we have extended the use-it-or-lose-it exemptions to cover events such as 9/11, and we have withdrawn the commission's proposal to link a 'grandfather's tax' to aircraft size, because we believe that companies need more flexibility. this is good both from an economic and an ecological point of view. otherwise, it would have been contractually productive. fourthly, the legitimate interests of the new airlines. the commission's definition of newcomers has not been to the liking of many of the established airlines, but we think it is in principle correct. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's air transport market is not affected by the introduction of new technologies. to further empower new recruits, we have clarified their definition and facilitated their access to transmission and exchange of timesheets. fifthly, where there are clear rules, there must also be sanctions. we've established that slots are revoked after a single warning in case of misuse. member states may also impose fines. let me conclude by giving you a little perspective. many members of the committee wished to see a fundamental reorganization as soon as possible. i can relate to that. the need for renewal is not yet met by our interim measure today. however, first of all, the impact of the present regulation needs to be assessed, because the air transport market is a highly sensitive area and at the same time of considerable economic importance. that's why the quick-fire is inappropriate. we also have time and need time to reach a broad consensus among the main players in the air transport market. the commission has accelerated this consensus process with the study it commissioned on slot allocation models, but it is far from complete. the approach of including air transport in the logic of optimising overall traffic was unfortunately not incorporated in the slot regulation. i am sorry to say that, but we should nevertheless keep this aspect in mind when we are preparing future legislation. i hope that the report will receive the same majority in the plenary tomorrow as it did in the committee.
- the proposal for a regulation (com (88) 0406 final - doc. i too would like to welcome very warmly, on behalf of my group, the report by mr stockmann, because it is an excellent report, which goes very deep. i would like to say on behalf of the majority of my group that my colleague, mrs foster, whom i very much respect, has tabled a minority opinion of my group this evening. the majority of my group, as well as the majority of the committee, support the commission's proposal to clarify the legal nature of slots and to make it clear once and for all that the commercial trade in slots among airlines is and will remain illegal. the slots are not owned by the airlines or the airports. they have only a servant function. they are designed to ensure the efficient, economic and environmentally sound use of airspace. in this respect, my group will reject the three amendments tabled by mrs foster tomorrow as well, because we believe that the commission is absolutely right. secondly, i believe that the purpose of the reorganization of the slot regulation is to make the rules for allocating slots more transparent and competitive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the airlines are able to operate in the community. we need competition, and i hope my british colleagues will agree with me on this point. we need competition, and therefore we need new slots for new airlines to organize competition in air transport better for the benefit of passengers. finally, the functions and independence of the coordinators will be strengthened. this will increase the possibility of taking unused time from existing airlines and allocating it to other airlines, in order to increase the efficiency of economically and environmentally sound use of airspace. that's the objective. in conclusion, mr president, madam vice-president, let us once again say that i hope that the council, under the spanish presidency, will take a substantial step in june. we did our homework. we have produced 52 amendments in committee, but the amendments are for clarification. i hope that the commission will step out of its shadow and support most of our amendments. in any case, it seems to me important that the council should reach a decision quickly. we want the revision of the time-slot regulation to benefit the airlines as soon as possible. the airlines have been hit by the general economic recession and the events of september 11. we believe that by reorganizing the slot regulations we are serving the airlines, the airports and the passengers. we therefore ask for support for the stockmann report.
- thank you, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0187/2002) by mr mastorakis, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the common position of the council (c5-0115/2002 - 2000/0327 (cod)) with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european maritime safety agency.
commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to be here today to listen to this debate. first of all, i would like to congratulate mr mastorakis on his excellent work. as he said, we are closing the procedure, because amendments nos 2, 4 and 5 are accepted by the commission, because they clearly improve the text we received from the council. and not only do the commission support them, but this morning the relevant council group has expressed its support and its willingness to incorporate and accept them. we could therefore complete this procedure, the adoption of the legislative text, if tomorrow, with these amendments, parliament gives its support to the text, which would be adopted by the council at its next meeting. i would like to say that, as mr ripoll and mr watts have just said, we have been discussing maritime safety for a year and a half. we have taken up the challenge and worked together to prevent the recurrence of terrible events such as the shipwreck of the erika, where there is not only a risk to human life, but also a pollution of the sea, with terrible consequences for the people living along the coast, for the flora, the fauna, the flora and for the defence of the environment. of the six initiatives that made up the erika i and erika ii packages, this is the fifth. the sixth initiative, the only one still pending, the fund initiative, the increase in the guarantee of the level of support and the guarantee for oil pollution is currently being discussed in the international maritime organization, and we hope that a decision will be reached, which will allow for a solution at international level, such as the maritime sector, and which will not oblige us to return to a european initiative. an international solution would be much more positive. if that is achieved, as we hope, within the framework of the international maritime organization, this would be the last initiative for the erika i and erika ii packages and we would have completed our work. i would like to thank all the honourable members and especially the various rapporteurs who have spoken on the various proposals - the five - which we have discussed and worked on, but also the whole house and especially the commission services, the directorate-general for transport and communications, because it is thanks to their efforts, their work, their professionalism and the speed with which they have responded that we have come this far. i would also like to thank the council for having agreed once and for all to respond to the citizens' demands: that we provide a framework for greater safety and protection for the maritime sector in general and for pollution caused by oil spills in particular. such a harsh reality has enabled us to move forward with other initiatives which will have a positive impact on maritime safety, on the improvement of maritime traffic and, therefore, on the maritime sector in general. thank you very much. i think that we can very possibly conclude the erika package and the agency will be set up as soon as possible, but as you know, ladies and gentlemen, we are not the ones who decide on the seat, but we hope that they will agree at the next european council and tell us definitively where it is located, and the sooner the better, because it is urgent. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr mastorakis. thank you very much, mr. president.
- thank you, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. declarations of financial interest - agenda for the next part-session: see minutes (the sitting was closed at 9.50 p.m.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i cannot share the opinion of the liberals. i would like to inform you, mr schulz, that this is simply because the liberals yesterday indicated that they were going to reject it. i assumed that the fellow was a member of the squad, but that was probably a mistake. but what is not, can still be! i should like to say that this second report by mr ayuso gonzález relates to the compromise proposal from the council. it provides that it will not be a common market organization but merely a market organization. this leads to the abolition of article 10, because article 10 states that national aid is prohibited in a market organization. it is obsolete, and i ask that you accept this urgency.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask, on behalf of my group, but also in consultation with all the shadow rapporteurs and the coordinators of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, that my two reports on the rules for the participation and dissemination of research results in the framework programme and the euratom programme be postponed until the july part-session. the council has already taken a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the council will take it into account. it was not possible to have a formal vote on this agreement in the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy. that is why i am now asking for these two reports to be postponed.
the rapporteur. mr president, i hope that we will be able to complete today legislation that was already discussed in this parliament a few years ago. of course, this legislation is about health protection. of course, we all want cosmetics - soaps, shampoos, perfumes - to be healthy, that is, to pose no danger to the people who use them. of course, all our colleagues have an interest in making the european cosmetics industry competitive and maintaining its competitiveness. we have always considered that the production of cosmetics also entails jobs and that these jobs deserve to be safeguarded. i am pleased to say that the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has adopted the position of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, which is a very important one. we want to. what are we trying to accomplish here today? the second reading is intended to change the council's bad, weak and unforeseeable common position. the council, the ministers of the member states, have missed an opportunity to set the course and also to listen to what their people want. what do the people of europe want? if you were to take a survey, you would probably hear very different opinions in many countries. but most people would agree that there is enough variety in soaps, deodorants, perfumes, lipsticks. we don't need a hundred thousand of them if they're going to torture animals for a long time. so no more animal testing for cosmetics, and you'd find overwhelming public support for that. that is the support you will find in this parliament. we said in committee at the second reading that yes, there should be no more animal testing for cosmetics. we also go further and say that from a certain point on, cosmetics that have been tested on animals should also no longer be sold. we believe that this is the only way to increase the pressure to find alternative testing methods and tests that do not torture animals, that do not make animals suffer for a long time. what more do we want? we want to label allergenic fragrances that cause allergies in humans, which have been identified by scientists as allergenic. we don't want to ban them. we want them to be labeled and people who are allergic to them to be able to make a choice. we also want to make the shelf life of cosmetics more visible to consumers, so that when they open a cosmetic product, a sunscreen, they know whether they can still use the product next year or whether it is harmful or no longer effective. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope that we will be very much in agreement when we vote this afternoon and show the council by an overwhelming majority that we think its common position is extremely bad. i would have liked the commission and commissioner liikanen to have been a little more courageous and not to have waited for parliament to force them to change their minds with an absolute majority at second reading. i would have liked the commission to have shown a little more flexibility and courage on some points, as i am used to seeing from mr liikanen. i hope we can at least agree that this partnership is working. then i would like to say something about the partnership. there is a lot of debate in this house, and some of us still say that debate is a good way of explaining to the european people the differences between why they should vote for certain parties and why they should not. i have to admit, i'm more concerned about the case right now. i am very grateful to the colleagues from the other groups for the extremely fair, extremely cooperative cooperation. i am also pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative of proposing a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks arising from exposure to asbestos at work. all the organisations involved - parliament, but also industry, consumer organisations, and also patients' organisations representing allergy sufferers - are convinced that parliament has a unique opportunity this afternoon to finally pass legislation which will then, in a few years' time, put into effect the cosmetics legislation that people want and need. i hope that we will have the courage to show this to the council and the commission by an overwhelming majority this afternoon. i am sure that the commission will be able to support this. i hope i find yours, too. we shall confirm this today and, if necessary, in a conciliation procedure.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my dear dagmar roth-behrendt, i would like to thank you for your kind words. animal testing should be abolished in cosmetics as soon as possible. we decided that in this house in 1993, but we had a weak partner on our side at the time. it seems to be the same now. this weak partner is the commission. in recent years it has not consistently shown the will to continue to promote these european decisions at wto level, so that wto partners will understand at an early stage that we are ready to move forward. we want to put them in a positive frame of mind. that is why i am very disappointed, mr liikanen, with all my personal respect, by your motion and i hope that we will now finally get a ban on animal testing in the next debate, which i will be calling in five or six years. but after these five or six years - and that's the crucial thing - the guillotine must fall. everyone should know that after five or six years, animal testing is really over, except for the exceptions that we want to make here and now on scientific grounds. we know that every principle accepts an exception. but exceptions have to be exceptions. that is why we must not have a new document after five years in which the debate is restarted. we can't explain that to our children, we can't explain that to the creature. the commission has the power to deal with the wto partners worldwide at an early stage. we have demonstrated this with the leghole traps, the traps with the animal skins, and we have done it very well. if you do not surprise the other wto partners, but involve them in the debate early enough, you can find a way. i would like to encourage you to take this step. you're man enough of your personality to play a pioneering role in that, too, all over the world. i would urge you to do so. (applause from the centre)
the committee on budgets the commission is not i would like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to conclude by thanking you once again for the debate. it was a very lively debate, marked by emotion, by sobriety and touching on various aspects. i am very grateful to the colleagues who spoke in the debate. i am grateful to mrs flemming for having referred to leonardo da vinci, and i have been trying all along to draw parallels between mr liikanen and leonardo da vinci. i am not sure that the commissioner will be able to give us a full answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a full answer to the question. i am very grateful to all the colleagues who have supported me and who will, i hope, support the proposals in as large a number as we did when we voted this afternoon. if cosmetic - that fits here - changes are needed, then i am convinced that we must do so in the conciliation procedure. i would like to say a few words on the points raised by mr nobilia and, finally, by mrs jackson. i have to say to mrs jackson: i could not withdraw the amendments even if i wanted to because the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection adopted them with 44 votes in favour. that is why it is now the position of the committee and not just mine, and i am the parliament's faithful rapporteur on that. and i also want to say that i'm a lawyer, not a scientist, and so i did something very simple. i have taken the position of the scientific committee on cosmetology, which is composed of scientists from the european union, who have found that 26 substances cause allergic reactions, 13 of them highly allergic reactions and 13 of them allergic reactions. the fact that these substances are labelled is the most banal thing in the world. we label nuts in chocolate and everything else for allergy sufferers, and we have to label that, too. i can understand why the flavouring industry woke up late and is now trying to influence us all three days before the vote. i do not want to ban their products, but i do want the substances to appear in one language, not 11 languages, with the chemical name in the list of ingredients, as the scientific committee on cosmetics has suggested, by the way. i believe that we owe this to the consumers of the european union.
the commission has already done so. mr nisticò has produced an excellent report, and i fully support its content. i do not want mr lund's statement to give the wrong impression. it is necessary that this directive establishes a uniform situation in the member states as regards the safety and quality of blood and blood plasma. patient protection is a top priority, both in terms of infection and care. so basically two things have to be ensured: the quality of the blood and that we always have enough blood and blood plasma available in the european union. i expressly support the council's common position because it increases the safety of blood and blood components. at the same time, it sets the stage for optimal availability of life-saving medicines in europe. plasma is needed to make vital medicines, such as clotting factors 7 and 8 for patients with haemorrhage and immunoglobulins to prevent infections in patients with a compromised immune system. a shortage would endanger the health of many patients. we cannot, as politicians, take responsibility for this. the voluntary and unpaid blood donation is a fundamental principle and should remain so. however, in the future, compensation for the costs of plasma donation cannot be excluded in the eu. at present, almost 50% of the european union's human blood and blood plasma needs are imported. the main importing country is the usa. the new directive should also not restrict the import of plasma from compensated donors. the emea study, published late last week, clearly shows that the safety of blood products from compensated and non-compensated donors is absolutely equivalent. there is therefore no reason to impose the unpaid donation on the basis of safety concerns. this would inevitably lead to shortages of supplies, including medicines produced as blood plasma. amendments nos 7, 19 and 20 are therefore unacceptable.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the amendment of the 2013 food labelling directive that we are now dealing with is an important step towards optimising consumer protection within european countries. the fundamental change in dietary habits and the resulting change in food production and processing - for those who still clean their own vegetables, those who still cook according to basic recipes - have made more and more finished products part of our diet. policies must respond by introducing new rules for improvement and consumer safety. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. already today, 8% of adults and 3% of children in the european union suffer from allergies. the effects can range from respiratory illnesses to life-threatening conditions. the only way to ensure a high level of safety for the people concerned is to avoid foods that are dangerous to them. this is why information on allergenic ingredients is so urgently needed. the labelling should strike a balance between practicable and clear labelling on the one hand and the legitimate right of consumers to full information on the other. the commission proposal has provided a good basis for this. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive. the abolition of the 25% rule is particularly noteworthy. but what is absolutely new, or rather what i see as the main focus of the amendment to the directive, is the list of allergenic substances based on the codex alimentarius. for the first time, it is proposed that allergenic substances should be labelled in all cases and at all times. this list of allergenic substances must, however, be kept under constant review to ensure that it is up to date with the latest scientific knowledge. in this context, a way must be found to keep this list up to date in cooperation with the european food safety authority, the commission and the european parliament. this means that new substances must be able to be absorbed, but in the light of new knowledge it must also be possible to remove substances. i therefore ask for your support for my amendment to the continuous monitoring of the list. in addition, this list requires detailed guidance for interpretation in annex 3. for example, what is meant by nuts when they are also called nuts? what products are referred to as crustaceans? does that include the snails? the commission proposes to abolish the 25% rule and to introduce small exemptions for labelling of between 5% and 2%. these apply to foods already regulated by the community, such as chocolate, sauces and mustard preparations, and to foods which do not require a list of ingredients, such as milk. mixtures of spices are subject to a 2% labelling exception. in the context of seasonal changes in supply, it is particularly important for smes to be able to react quickly to changing market conditions through regulation and/or regulation. all these facilities, contrary to the view of some critics, do not represent a weakening of consumer protection but a reasonable system and an alternative to the abolition of the 25% system. this does not affect the basic obligation to label all allergenic substances. i have been very much involved in labelling and in its practical implementation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the labelling of foodstuffs is not distorted. the commission's proposal will improve consumer protection in the european union and provide consumers with more transparency and information. this is an important message for the people of europe, especially in the light of the current difficulties. in conclusion, i would like to thank all of you for your help and support. i would be glad if the amendments i have proposed were accepted by a large majority of the members of this house. (applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on agriculture and rural development. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: so here we are again: farmers demonstrating, we are dealing with food issues. i think it is important that we continue to fight for consumer confidence, and more precise labelling is particularly important and necessary for foodstuffs. as the author of the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs klaß, for her excellent cooperation. although we had slightly different views on some of the details at the beginning of the debate, we were on the same page overall: the committee on agriculture and rural development and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection have complemented each other very well, and i think that should be mentioned and appreciated, especially in these days. the commission proposal has already been a welcome step forward in the field of food labelling. but i guess nothing's so good it can't get better. that was our task in parliament. the previous system, which required all ingredients of foodstuffs including the constituent parts of compound foods to be indicated on the label in the so-called list of ingredients, also provided for exceptions. mrs klaass raised this so-called 25% rule. the often heard reasoning that labels are too large and unreadable because of the many ingredients they contain was perhaps a bit far-fetched. the commission itself pointed out that in member states where this rule did not apply, there was no uncertainty. the problem with this 25% rule was probably mainly that consumers could not know when buying processed food whether it contained substances that had an allergic effect, and even very small amounts were important to the consumer. i think that it is in this context that the difference between amendments nos 7 and 12 needs to be examined in greater detail, whether this scientifically developed basis for the classification of allergenic substances is correct before or after the adoption of the directive.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the labelling of foodstuffs has become a recurring theme in this parliament. when a major change to the labelling directive was decided in 1995, there were similar discussions on the issues facing us today. the need for today's debate, however, arises, in my view, solely from the fact that allergic reactions to certain ingredients have increased in humans and in some cases have led to threatening conditions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. the production process has not changed since 1995, i think. what has changed, however, is the attitude of this parliament, because we have already discussed the pros and cons of the 25% rule. today, that's not an issue. so i think we are going back to 5%, because the approach to this change, to give the consumer the confidence that he can identify the allergens that threaten him, is well established. that is why we should continue along this path. but today we are again in a state of confusion between the information we need and clarity. i am referring firstly to the clarity of the label and secondly to the clarity of the directive. the consolidated version of 2013/ec was a redundant act. the first time you apply this directive you need a legal expert to apply it correctly, because it is very complicated in my view. so you understand me correctly: i do not know of any other change than what we are deciding here today. i would like to point out that the next amendment to the labelling directive will be about whether we can omit essential elements from the labelling, since the knowledge of the public has already been greatly expanded. we also assume that in restaurants and bars where mixed drinks and many dishes are prepared, he knows what is in it and that he can also ask questions. perhaps we should take this approach to the next change in the preview, because i think the next change is coming. i am thinking, for example, of alcoholic beverages.
commission. – mr president, i would like firstly to express my thanks to members for their interest in this proposal and especially to mr bakopoulos, the rapporteur for his constructive work. this is an important directive as it would introduce a ban on certain colourants for textiles and leather articles as there are colourants that have been shown to pose risks to human health. it is a far-reaching proposal as it covers the marketing and use of a large number of textiles and leather articles. the proposed directive will also encourage the marketing and use of alternative colourants. i can understand that members have concerns going beyond the proposed directive with regard to material other than textiles or leather and i would like to address those concerns. the commission's approach is to identify articles containing the dangerous substances that have clearly been shown on the basis of sufficient data to pose risks. currently the commission has no information that these colourants are present in toys made of materials other than textiles or leather. however, toys containing dangerous substances or preparations are already banned by the toys directive. furthermore, within this framework the commission is actively considering the risks posed by such substances in toys. against this background, the commission is unable to accept amendments nos 1 to 4.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would ask that the legislative proposal be put to the vote now, because there is no point in referring it back to committee. (applause from the centre)
the rapporteur. the commission is not i did not expect the commission to do otherwise. we must convince them, by a very clear vote here in the house, that they must overcome their lethargy! (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in my group there are different ideas about how the electoral system for elections to the european parliament should be designed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i personally think that the compromise reached in the council is acceptable on the whole, because it represents a step towards a more homogeneous european electoral system. the decision on the incompatibility of simultaneous membership of the european parliament and a national parliament was overdue. it is particularly gratifying that the citizens of gibraltar can finally take part in the european elections. i very much hope that the citizens of the candidate countries will also take part in the elections in 2004 and that there will be no delay in the accession negotiations. however, i am concerned about the recent actions of my government and i urge them not to question the timetable for enlargement. i would like to address four questions on which my group sees an urgent need for change in the context of the right to vote. firstly, we reject the closure clause. they are undemocratic because they disadvantage smaller parties and restrict political pluralism. secondly, it is high time that the right to vote in european elections was no longer restricted to union citizens. it is difficult to see why people from third countries who have been living and working in our member states for several years are still being denied the right to vote and stand as candidates. why are we not taking an important step towards integration here, especially in view of the alarming increase in xenophobia in our member states? thirdly, we need to lower the voting age. the council of the european youth forum addressed the convention at the end of april and called for the age for voting to be lowered to 16 years. i support this demand of the young people and hope that the youth convention in july will also make a massive effort to do so. fourthly, the recitals rightly refer to gender equality as a problem. i think it is unacceptable that only about 30% of the members of this house are women. here, the political parties are asked to finally make changes to their own rules on the list of candidates for gender equality.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is all too true that the electoral procedure for the direct elections to the european parliament has been an almost endless story since the 1970s. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council. the european treaties give the european parliament the right to propose, but the council must act unanimously. we have already fulfilled our obligations with the anastassopoulos report four years ago, but the council of ministers has taken a very, very long time. if something has happened, we are glad that we finally have a common electoral procedure in time for the 2004 elections, but i must thank mr gil-robles very much for mentioning the points which parliament has long called for but which have unfortunately not been included. we have therefore no choice but to say yes or no to the council's proposals, that is to say, according to the motto 'bird, fresh or dead'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european parliament also calls on the convention to revise the ec treaty on eu voting rights. it is not acceptable that the european parliament, which has the right of initiative in electoral legislation under the treaty, should no longer be able to vote on final decisions. the european parliament must be given full co-decision on a matter so fundamental to a parliament. i cannot help but notice that the proposed text on the introduction of territorial constituencies, with the corresponding protocol declaration, is a solution to the delicate problem between the united kingdom and gibraltar, since it is sad that a country like the united kingdom, with its centuries-old experience of empire and its centuries-old democratic tradition, has to be made aware only by a judgment of the european court of human rights that it has greater responsibilities beyond the actual territory of the united kingdom. this solution will finally allow the citizens of gibraltar to take part in the elections to the european parliament. this is certainly a success for democracy in europe.
i have to say, madam president, when groups of visitors come to me in strasbourg, i find that the majority of these citizens assume that the meps were elected here by the same process and that we are paid equally for the same work we do here. the more surprised most citizens are to find that both are not european but national. the procedure for electing the european parliament is national, 15 different procedures, 25 different procedures after enlargement, and although we do the same work here, we are treated very differently. it is therefore high time that we get a europe-wide statute for members and their work and that, of course, the electoral procedure for the european parliament is also standardized to such an extent that it has a europe-wide representativeness. i also thank mr gil-robles gil-delgado, who has made a major contribution to the next step towards a common electoral procedure. i would also like to mention the gaps that still exist, which the council has left. one of these gaps is the absence of european lists in the european elections. we all know from the last european elections that they were almost purely national elections, internal political disputes that have very little to do with what we do and should do here. only if we have european lists will the european parties make an effort. then they will try to mobilize citizens beyond national borders. that didn't work out. we urge the council to introduce these european lists in the next review of this electoral procedure. i also agree with mr van den berg that it is impossible for us to vote from thursday to sunday and for the votes of the citizens who voted on thursday to be put into the archives by sunday evening before the results are known. what we are getting here is a first step, and a good one. the second step must be taken urgently.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i do not want to join in the lamentation over the failure of bali and omit the points that have already been raised. i would like to draw attention to the priorities we have set ourselves, particularly with the cotonou agreement, and the first of these is the fight against poverty. this means providing basic services, health care, clean water for all, basic education for all children, and, where possible, educational opportunities for adults. this is not an end in itself, but a basic prerequisite for finally gaining insight into the problems of every society and every living environment. those who have to fight for their survival every day are hard to win for high goals. we have a responsibility to free them from having to go out every day in search of their daily food. in this context, it is important to point out that women play a key role in any development and that we must contribute to this - and this must be strongly called for in johannesburg - by enabling women to actively participate in the development process and to contribute actively to the improvement of living conditions. women are the agents of development processes throughout the world, and they are the ones who bring about changes in civil society. the other point i want to make is the need to create access to global communications to enable social benefits. i do not want to hide the fact that i am concerned about the spanish presidency, which is apparently planning to abolish the development council. this would be a completely wrong signal for johannesburg! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, a question relating to the prohibited substances. the fact is that in the european union certain substances will be banned in the future as they have been in the past. how does the commission intend to ensure that these substances are investigated in the member states in the future? how can we exclude the possibility that products containing these banned substances will be marketed, as they are in germany with nitrophen? the ban was passed a long time ago. in all that time, not even nitrophen has been tested. it was discovered by accident.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank you for your consistent approach. it is sometimes helpful in federal systems that the countries then also feel obliged to act consistently here. i have three questions. firstly, should not feed be regularly inspected, and not just the food that is produced from it? secondly, should this not apply in particular to imports from countries where nitrophen-containing spraying agents are still used or are still in large stocks? thirdly, if you check for nitrophen again, which you have indicated here, do you expect that traces of nitrophen will be found in other countries and in the conventional area?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it's not going to change. i understand the displeasure of colleagues from other countries. i think what has happened in germany - and i say this as a german - is a scandal, and our farmers are the ones who are affected. minister künast has created nothing but eloquent announcements. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. this has not been achieved. we wanted to see the authorities report earlier in connection with the lannoye report. we argued for 2003, 2005 was set. my question to the commissioner is: what do you think of this scandal now? shouldn't we have called the authorities earlier?
commission. - mr president, the white paper on european transport policy foresees that, unless major new initiatives are taken, heavy goods vehicle traffic will increase by 40 to 50% by 2010 compared with 1998. experience shows that transport growth, especially in border regions, will accelerate as a result of enlargement. in order to tackle the bottlenecks resulting from this situation, the white paper sets out a policy to ensure the rebalancing of transport modes. a considerable part of this transport growth should be recorded in infrastructure other than road, i.e. either rail, inland waterway or maritime transport. the commission proposal to revise the decision on the guidelines for the transeuropean transport network has the general objective of reducing bottlenecks. in this context, the commission has proposed to add a number of links with the candidate countries. in order to strengthen the east-west corridors, it has also proposed two new priority projects: the combined transport project, the stuttgart-vienna high-speed railway and the danube improvement project between vilshoffen and straubin. the commission has also proposed to amend the regulation on the granting of community funds in the field of transeuropean networks, raising the maximum ceilings for co-financing from the current 10% to 20% of the cost of investment in exceptional cases, including projects carried out on the borders with the candidate countries. the commission is planning a wider review of all the transeuropean networks in 2004, taking account of the new configuration of the european union, that is, the one resulting from enlargement. as far as rail freight is concerned, we have already presented not only the first railway package, which was approved a year and a half ago, but also the second railway package, which aims precisely to boost rail freight transport by creating a railway of the 21st century, dynamic, competitive with the road, customer-oriented and therefore providing a quality service. i hope that the work of this parliament and the council of ministers will soon give the green light to these very important measures. finally, in the field of logistics, thanks to the new marco polo project aimed at promoting interoperability and subsidising the development of alternatives to road transport, companies in the candidate countries will be able to obtain financial aid if they apply for it together with a company in the european union.
i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us the full details of the matter. mr wuermeling and i are concerned in general in the border regions, because in our country the volume of traffic is not only 40 to 50%, but even more. the citizens living in the border regions along the main roads are faced with congestion, noise and exhaust fumes. when they go to work, they have to drive behind trucks from the czech republic, slovakia, romania and bulgaria in columns all the time. my question is this: you mentioned that railways and railways should be given special support. have measures been taken or are there any support for measures to shift freight traffic from road to rail in the border area and have you also held talks with deutsche bahn on this? that would be my request.
the commission is aware of the fact that the increase in traffic will be concentrated in a significant way, that is clear, in the border areas, and that is precisely why we are promoting, through various projects, the recovery of rail freight traffic within the current 15 countries of the european union, as well as the maintenance of rail as a mode of transport within the candidate countries. in other words, already through the pre-accession funds, we are trying to ensure that the applicant countries do not shift their transport towards the road and that they maintain their share in the railway sector at least equivalent to the present one. i am aware of the problems, inconveniences and inconveniences suffered by the coastal communities from the major roads and, in this connection, we are looking at how the quality of this traffic can be improved. we have of course spoken to deutsche bahn and, from next year, the first railway package will be put into operation, which means, firstly, that within the european union there will be, for the first time, a european railway network, which does not exist today, that we will be able to overcome the national railway networks and that we will integrate these national networks into a european network. the european network will allow the different transport operators - including deutsche bahn - to compete with each other and to have non-discriminatory access to it. i believe that with these systems, and then the introduction in the coming years of common or at least interoperable technical standards, we can really build a european railway that can really compete with the road.
i have to say, madam president, thank you for that answer. first of all, i must apologize for being a little late, but i'm glad i made it. we are, as you know, reforming our rules of procedure; i'm involved as a shadow reporter, and the sensitivities are very high here. i would like to begin by thanking the commission for its commitment to closing the gaps between the transeuropean transport network in the european union and the tina network in the applicant countries. this is very important. it has put forward proposals to supplement the transeuropean networks and has also made financial commitments to this end. i think that's very positive. we in the region are of course now discussing some of these infrastructure projects very intensely. what we still lack - and here again my demand - is a fairly reliable projection of the percentage by which freight traffic in particular will actually increase. it would be very important for us to know this, and also for the people who have to bear the disadvantages of new transport links.
- the next item is the continuation of the debate on the report (a5-0207/2002) by mrs hautala, on behalf of the parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 76/207/eec on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment for men and women as regards access to employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions (pe-cons 3624/2002 - c5-0185/2002 - 2000/0142 (cod))
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the outcome of the conciliation procedure for the equality directive is now in sight. i would like to thank our rapporteur, mrs hautala, very much. i am convinced that this amended directive will prove to be a milestone in improving career opportunities for women. we have managed, literally at the last minute, to reach a compromise on the definition of sexual harassment in the workplace, which prohibits all forms of unwanted sexual behaviour, verbal and non-verbal expressions that offend the dignity of the person concerned. direct and indirect discrimination have also been enshrined in eu law for the first time, making them binding in 15 member states and soon in 10 more. a qualitative breakthrough of enormous importance is that women are not to be placed at a disadvantage in connection with pregnancy and motherhood and are entitled to their previous jobs or to equivalent jobs after parental leave. it has been a hard fight to get fathers on parental leave and adoptive parents under the protection of the directive. by 2005, member states, including the candidate countries, must ensure that independent bodies are set up in enterprises to draw up equality plans and to take preventive action and have the necessary resources. there are real sanctions for violations. it is not clear whether this voluntary commitment between the federal government and employers' associations in germany, which is moving in this direction, will meet the high requirements of our eu directive. if companies do not significantly increase their efforts to promote women, the way forward is to take them to the european court of justice.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the amendment of this directive had become urgently necessary in order to take account of the treaty of amsterdam, which contains new provisions on equal opportunities for men and women. however, many extensive judgments of the european court of justice - such as the kalanke and marshall judgments - also give rise to an adjustment. we have been arguing long and hard in both the european parliament and the council for a workable compromise. we have never lost sight of the objective of ensuring equal treatment for men and women in access to employment. the definition of sexual harassment has been refined to the last, although there is still some disagreement on whether it should be included in legislation. a compromise was reached on the establishment of one or more independent bodies to analyse and monitor the implementation and application of the directive. such places, which may also be part of existing institutions, are worth supporting. the directive also refers to the rights of adoptive parents in the member states where adoption leave is recognised. the right to return to the original job or to an equivalent job after maternity leave has also been restored. the directive now obliges member states to introduce a number of binding measures on equal opportunities. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. you need support for this too. only when we have achieved that family, that childrearing, that elderly care is equally the responsibility of men and women, and only when it has become a matter of course for men to take parental leave for family responsibilities, only then have we moved closer to the goal of equal opportunities, equal rights, equal responsibilities.
commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my colleague, mrs diamantopoulou, who will be very sorry not to be here this evening, i would like to congratulate you all, and in particular mrs hautala, on the agreement reached by parliament and the council on this extremely important directive. this agreement could not have been reached without the willingness of parliament and the council to compromise. the political agreement of 17 april 2002 substantially strengthens the text of the common position adopted in june 2001. we can all be proud of the efforts we have made, as we have made a great step forward towards our common goal of equality between men and women. i think we have managed to resolve all the important issues and to a large extent have responded to the concerns of the european parliament. the issue was complex and inspired various amendments. i believe that the text finally adopted is a compromise in the noble sense of the word, because we are giving the men and women of europe a tangible result, a very firm directive. we have made considerable progress in the fight against discrimination based on sex and have ensured the effective and sustainable implementation of a fundamental principle of the treaty in the member states. the new directive is characterised by a clear wording, which ensures legal certainty and consistency with similar anti-discrimination legislation. i particularly welcome the innovations introduced, namely the approval of a common european definition of sexual harassment in the area of employers' responsibilities, the prevention of harassment and sexual harassment and the establishment of equality plans, the provision in the text of an extended mandate to bodies responsible for implementing the principle of equality. the institutions have shown their firm will to find the compromises necessary to bring this matter to a successful conclusion and i hope that this will set a precedent in the context of future cooperation between the institutions.
- visually speaking, mrs. diamantopoulou would have been a little more pleasant, but in terms of content, you defended the subject as well! the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the following reports are requested for joint debate: - a5-0211/2002 by mr van velzen, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a council regulation (com (2002) 43 - c5-0212/2002 - 2001/0122 (snc)) adopting a specific research, technological development and demonstration programme: 'integrating and strengthening the european research area' (2002-2006); - a5-0206/2002 by mrs zorba, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the amended proposal for a council decision (com (2002) 43 - c5-0213/2002 - 2001/0123 (cns)) adopting a specific research, technological development and demonstration programme: 'structuring the european research area' (2002-06); - a5-0210/2002 by mr piétrasanta, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the amended proposal for a council decision (com (2002) 43 - c5-0214/2002 - 2001/0124 (cns)) adopting a specific research, technological development and demonstration programme to be implemented by the joint research centre through direct actions (2002-2006); - a5-0209/2002 by mr alyssandrakis, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal and amended proposal for a council decision (com (2002) 279 - c5-0333/2001 + com (2002) 43 - c5-0215/2002 - 2001/0125 (cns)) adopting a specific research and training programme (euratom) in the field of nuclear energy (2002-2006); - a5-0208/2002 by mr schwaiger, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal and amended proposal for a council decision (com (2002) 279 - c5-0334/2001 + com (2002) 43 - c5-0216/2002 - 2001/0126 (cns)) adopting a specific research and training programme to be implemented by the joint research centre for the european atomic energy community (2002-06) through direct actions.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner busquin, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. my report deals with the direct actions for the european atomic energy community which are being implemented and realised by the joint research centre and its establishments at ispra, petten, geel, mol and karlsruhe. this specific programme has several priorities, the political objectives of which i would now like to discuss in detail. but first, a word about training. it is very important that in the decades to come supporters and critics of nuclear energy can certainly agree a sufficient number of highly qualified young nuclear researchers in europe actively contribute to ensuring nuclear safety in operating nuclear power plants through their research and also to controlling the source of danger of fuel cycles, if necessary. the same applies to the safe storage and the speedy decontamination of nuclear waste in the coming decades. it is therefore important to maintain the high standard of the joint research centre and to further develop its research capacity through the training of young scientists, through training and scientific internships. this can be particularly promoted, inter alia, by networking with international, national and regional bodies at different levels. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but there are two principles i would like to stress here: firstly, the observance of the general ethical guidelines which must also be observed by the researchers of the european union and in particular of euratom. acceptance of research by the population of the member states plays an important role in this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, the principle of equal opportunities for women researchers must be respected. this applies both to their training and to the transfer of important research assignments, either alone or in a team. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the most important point for me is to contribute to the safety of nuclear power stations and the associated fuel cycle through research. the citizens of europe can demand that nuclear safety be of the highest standard in an enlarged european union. the strict west european rules, which are very sophisticated but not fully harmonised in the member states, must be incorporated into the community acquis and applied to the nuclear power stations of the applicant countries of central and eastern europe. a european nuclear safety code should be drawn up by the european union with the help of the expertise of the joint research centre, its research results and the competent national authorities and be put into effect throughout europe before enlargement. it is therefore also a valid right for the applicant countries. the member states must accept this code as part of the community acquis before accession and then apply it. the commission and, in particular, vice-president de palacio, have welcomed and supported these ideas in the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy. i also assume that you yourself will take these suggestions positively. we therefore hope that the commission will submit a proposal on this subject this summer. for example, it is not acceptable that the ignalina nuclear power plant in lithuania should continue to operate without being converted. the other alternative is, of course, to close it down, if possible before lithuania joins the european union. overall, the european union and the joint research centre have a very large research capacity in the field of nuclear safety. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's nuclear waste is not disposed of in a manner that would be contrary to the interests of the community. the second is the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and, of course, of fissile materials. this control - the so-called safeguards - is provided for in the euratom treaty. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the recent thefts in germany are a warning sign. this, of course, includes the tracing and safe storage of stolen nuclear material. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. cancer research by the institute for transuranic acids together with the german cancer research centre is one example.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on agriculture and rural development. the commission is not i'm referring to five reports times two minutes is ten! i am happy to admit that agriculture is not so much affected by nuclear energy, if we leave aside the wind which has just been mentioned. i shall therefore try to be brief. the committee on agriculture and rural development regrets, in principle, that there is no specific core area for the agricultural sector in the sixth research framework programme, but that projects are divided into the food safety, environmental protection and development chapters. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it would be appropriate to have a separate research package here, especially since agriculture is one of the major fields of practical application of research results, alongside nuclear energy and pharmaceuticals, both in terms of scope and practical application. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. it is not to be taken as if research is just beginning, but it has been the basis for the livelihoods and enjoyment of past generations and of the present - much more than this new technology indicates. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european food safety authority, the establishment of a european food safety authority and the establishment of a european food safety authority. but we also have to see that new technologies can threaten food security. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the use of seeds, for example, is not, or is not, primarily concerned with the breeding of resistance, but with the attempt to produce resistance through genetic manipulation, often even as resistance to plant protection products in the synthetic sector. but we don't just have the chemical domain, we also have the biological domain. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the introduction of a new system of controls on the use of pesticides. the main issue would be to promote resistance development in the seed sector through research into the natural development process of the seed, rather than focusing on training in the new field of genetic technology. the second problem is that the application of the new genetic technology leads to contamination, which was initially ruled out by the research in the companies operating in this sector. the jump from genetically engineered rapeseed to a related weed was ruled out before, but now it's happened! we also have the transfer and contamination from applications in conventional fields to the biological field. but there it is prohibited by the european union's legal system, excluded. organic farms must not work with genetically modified organisms. so research would also be necessary, if you are researching in the field of genetic engineering, how to prevent contamination of other areas. there is little happening at the moment, except that postulates are being put forward. i am speaking on behalf of the committee and i must make it clear that we are not against new developments in the field of technology! we are simply opposed to the idea that research provides something and that the risk then lies in the application. i have made a number of points. it is also important that the risk is not transferred to farmers in the application and to consumers in the execution of food production, but that damage must be delimited and that damage and risk research be carried out, as we have already prescribed in the nuclear field, to estimate what can happen in practical application, what is possible in the case of biological transmission for damage in other areas, so that we do not always become wise by damage, but are informed in advance by research on potential risks.
- thank you very much, mr graefe zu baringdorf. - thank you very much. you really did say what you had to say, and you said it well short of your allotted time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i thank the rapporteurs for their excellent work. i support the reports before us. i am very much in favour of the van velzen report and the zorba report. i think they improve the commission's proposals and put us in the right direction. i think it is very important what mr van velzen said about cancer research. this must remain a priority for european research funding. we have already fought hard for this in the framework programme, and that is why it is important that we emphasize it again here. in the context of sustainable development, we should use research to combat environmental problems. i have tabled a number of amendments to this effect, which have been supported by the committee, for example on research into sustainable biofuels. contrary to what mr graefe said about baringdorf, i believe that biotechnology can play a very, very positive role in the environmental field. on the subject of ethics and research, i would like to say that i would ask the commission very much to support amendments nos 17 to 20. they were already part of the package in the caudron report and could indicate a positive direction, namely that we are supporting the very technologies which can be an alternative to what we have been arguing about here in parliament very often. so it's about a positive, constructive approach. the famous nistico motion, which we have been very much debating here, the nistico motion on cloning and stem cell research, has not been tabled. the main reason is that there have been very serious problems in the council with certain aspects of this request. i still do not understand why the council could not approach this proposal. the european parliament wanted to go further than the common position. but if i now hear that the council is starting to discuss ethics on the basis of a declaration by five member states, then we can only be happy with that and i call on the commission to behave constructively here and to facilitate an agreement in the council. the european parliament will certainly not object to the introduction of something in the field of ethics which is even closer to our proposal than was the case in the commission's statement and the common position.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the sum of eur 17.5 billion approved by the council was, after all, up for debate, that is, for distribution. i have to say that i have had to resign from the position of spokeswoman for the committee on budgetary control, not because i refused to work, but because the committee decided not to give an opinion this evening, because it is a question of new methods of integration and coordination, which are not intended to be subject to ex ante evaluation. i would like to take my time, however, because i have noticed in practice what i consider to be critical: the commission's negotiating contracts with small and mediumsized enterprises in the framework of eligible project proposals under the framework programme for research are the subject of this report, mr busquin. how can projects which i consider to be excellent in terms of content be doomed to failure because the applicants do not pass a credit check by the commission? a credit check which is shortsighted - i mean - and stiffens on profit margins and liquidity, completely ignoring the willingness of companies to innovate and invest. a credit check which places high barriers in the form of protective measures, especially for smes, and finally a credit check which has a demotivating and humiliating effect on companies which are innovative and less profit-oriented in their own right and should therefore be preferred partners in the research framework programme. the cofinancing must be done with care so that community funds are not misused or misinvested by private companies, that is clear. such an examination, however, requires more refined and case-oriented decision parameters. otherwise, instead of being encouraged, innovative impulses are systematically excluded and we end up with a similar accumulation of resources and thus empty resources as in the case of the european structural funds.
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council! the spanish presidency has done a good job so far, but the seville summit will be the final decision on how we can really assess the spanish presidency in the end. mr president-in-office of the council, i would like to emphasize what the president of parliament has just said, and also the president of the commission, namely that our group expects a high-level political working group of our three institutions to be set up in seville to discuss and come to conclusions on how we can improve our legislation and that, as the president of the commission has said, we can reach an institutional agreement by the end of this year 2002. the prime minister and president of the council, josé maría aznar, has made this promise here in parliament, and i would ask you very, very warmly and urgently to get a decision in seville on the setting up of such a political working party. if that happens, we will judge the spanish presidency much more favourably than we have done so far. as regards the reform of the council - and i fully understand that, mr president of the council - you have been very reticent, i suppose because you do not have a mandate to speak about it today. i can certainly assume that the spanish presidency will do everything in its power to ensure that we have a distinction between the council as a legislative body and the council as an executive body, and that we also have transparency where the council acts as a legislative body. this is what we expect of seville. you mentioned that the president of the convention, valéry giscard d'estaing, would be making a report. i would very much welcome it if all the governments of the european union's member countries would follow this example, that their representatives in the convention also report to the respective cabinets, to the respective governments of the member states of the european union, so that there is a close feedback, as we do at parliamentary level. i would like to leave no doubt in the minds of our group that the debates today in the council and at the seville summit must be conducted on the basis that we are strengthening community europe, because we need strong european institutions and we must not fall back on mere cooperation between governments. i am saying this in the context of a visit to the united states in the last two days. if we do not act as the european union - and we are hardly perceived as the european union in america - if we do not make the european union strong, then we will lose more and more weight in the world. that is why our aim must be to strengthen the european community. (applause from the centre) we recognize that the spanish presidency is taking a firm stand in the fight against terrorism. our perception in europe is different from that in the united states. the united states is at war because it has been attacked on its own soil for the first time. we must understand this and we must do everything in europe to help dismantle the networks of terrorism. but we must also say that terrorism and the fight against terrorism must not be a reason for violating human rights, in africa or chechnya or anywhere else! and we have to make a clear distinction between terrorists on the one hand and the arab and islamic world on the other. that is why it is so important that the european union continues to make efforts to contribute to peace in the middle east. that we tell the israelis that you have the right to live within secure borders, and that anyone who attacks those secure borders must expect determined resistance. but we also have to tell the palestinians that they have dignity and the right to live in secure borders on the basis of a palestinian state. we welcome your efforts to combat terrorism, we welcome your efforts to protect the external borders of the european union by means of a common european border police, and we hope that we will see results in seville. we recognize the spanish efforts in the sixth framework programme for research as a great success and we hope that we will also be able to confirm the road map for the enlargement of the european union in seville, which will be discussed more intensively this afternoon. i can only emphasize what commission president prodi said: that we, as the european parliament, as the european council, as the european commission, as european institutions, encourage the countries of central europe to conclude the negotiations on the basis of the acquis communautaire, so that we can reach a result within the time frame provided and the peoples of central europe who sign the accession treaties, as well as malta and hopefully cyprus, can take part in the next european elections. we in parliament, we in the group of the european people's party, the european democrats, feel that we are in any case advocates of the peoples who want to join the european union, and i ask you very warmly that we all make our contribution to ensuring that we can comply with this road map. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president of the commission! i would like to speak exclusively on the india-pakistan conflict. mr president-in-office, you have rightly pointed out in your remarks that this conflict is destabilising and endangering the whole region. the concern about this great danger has led us, the foreign policy leaders, from almost all the political groups, to adopt a common position, which can be found in the seville resolution. in this resolution we call on both states to make every effort to calm the situation and to find a constructive dialogue between the two states as soon as possible, which could lead to a solution of the conflict. the responsibility of both sides to de-escalate the conflict is clear. that is why i welcome the measures taken by india in the last few days. firstly, to lift the ban on the overflight of pakistani aircraft, secondly, to appoint a high commissioner to islamabad and, finally, to order its warships back to their ports. we also expect president musharaf to continue and substantially increase his efforts to stop the infiltration of terrorists across the line of control into kashmir. if he keeps the promises he made in his speech of 12 january this year, then a great step towards resolving the conflict will have been taken. i was in kashmir a few weeks ago and at the line of control at an indian post at an altitude of 3 400 metres; that is why i know what i am talking about. the fight against terrorism can only be effectively conducted by pakistan. pakistan has a responsibility not only to intercept the terrorists at the border but also to punish and remove them from the way. the last point, which plays a special role in the whole debate, is the consolidation of democracy. india is a democratic country and we hope the same for pakistan when free elections are held in the autumn and a democratic government is formed.
- after this discussion on the budgetary procedure, i can give the floor to the commissioner responsible for the budget.
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has been working. the revision of the financial regulation is one of the most extensive and major legislative acts of this parliamentary term. i would therefore like to thank the commission for the excellent cooperation it has had with the european parliament and the council, and in particular with the two committees, the committee on budgets and the committee on budgetary control, and i would like to congratulate the two rapporteurs, mr dell'alba and mr van hulten, on the very clever negotiations and the positive results for parliament. i would like to thank the commission very, very much.
commission - ladies and gentlemen, the commission can accept amendments nos 2, 4 and 5, which the council should be able to adopt before the end of the spanish presidency. at this stage, however, the commission considers that amendment no 6 would jeopardise the agreement reached with the council and is therefore obliged to reject it. our common objective should be to see the rapid adoption of the regulation establishing a european maritime safety agency.
commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission congratulates the rapporteur, mr nisticò, and the committee on the environment on the progress made on this important matter. we hope that work can soon be completed to enable the new powers conferred by the amsterdam treaty on public health to be implemented for the first time. the commission can accept amendments nos 1, 9, 12, 15, 17, 19, 25, 27 and 28. the commission can also accept some of amendments nos 2, 3, 5, 6, 10, 13, 14, 16, 18, 20 and 21. the commission cannot, for the reasons stated by commissioner byrne in the debate yesterday morning, accept amendments nos 4, 7, 8, 11, 22, 23, 24 and 26.
- the session is now adjourned and will resume after the solemn session. (the sitting was suspended at 11.58 a.m. for the formal sitting and resumed at 12.35 p.m.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this is not in accordance with the agreements we have reached on this point in the committee and in the group. the point is that we will only open such a procedure if we also have prospects of the corresponding majorities in the further course of this difficult procedure for establishing human rights violations in member states. we therefore do not agree with this oral amendment.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we in the epp group have tabled amendments nos 142 and 144 on this point. now that amendment no 142 has been adopted, i do not think that there should be a vote on amendment no 144 because it deals with the same subject.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the services have indeed found that the amendments are identical. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the question is whether we demand that the high commissioner be present at debates on foreign and security policy, or whether we say, in a more polite way, that he should be invited. i think that, since this is a matter of foreign and security policy, we should choose the diplomatic formulation; the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
mr president, mr fatuzzo, as usual, made an explanation of vote, because his request has already been met by our rejection of the amendment.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make just one brief comment on this: the point is that we should have an obligation to examine the financial implications of the committee reports. there is a passage in rule 159 which refers to legislative reports. we have already adopted a formulation for this. article 160 now refers to non-legislative reports; we should ensure that the same wording is used in both cases, because it makes no difference in the case whether a financial statement is drawn up for a legislative or non-legislative report. in this respect, the vote on motion no 88 should have eliminated the need for a second vote.
in writing. - (de) i voted against the recommendation in the dell'alba report and therefore against the new financial regulation. it no longer provides for any independent financial control to verify the work done before the eu budget accounts are drawn up. it is a violation of the treaty establishing the european community that requires such an independent financial control. if such prior checks are not carried out, the risk of irregularities and fraud increases. the commission has long been warned about this, the last time by its own accountant, who was relieved of his duties shortly afterwards. the commission will pay dearly for not taking such warnings seriously.
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i welcome today's debate on enlargement, which can set a clear signal in the run-up to the seville european council. the various resolutions before us today for decision once again demonstrate the key role of the european parliament in the quality and speed of the enlargement process. i am grateful for the reliable cooperation between parliament and the commission on this issue. i should like to take this opportunity to thank all the rapporteurs of parliament for their constructive cooperation with the commission. i would also like to express my special thanks to your president, whose presence in the future member states is encouraging and confidence-building. the resolutions and today's debate are the culmination of a very intensive process of work in the european parliament over the past few months. the result is a clear yes to the strategy and timetable for enlargement. the assessment that 10 countries have the capacity to conclude negotiations with us at the end of this year, if they remain on a reform course, is confirmed. i am grateful for the high degree of agreement in analysis and conclusions. parliament called on both sides, the european union and the future member states, to make the most of the months ahead, to keep up the pace and to mobilise all forces once again in the final push to achieve the common goal. i join that appeal. i have often referred to the period 2002 to 2004 as the 'window of opportunity'. a window that is wide open, but which could close again if we do not take advantage of the opportunity that is offered to us. this is a chance we must not let slip. everything we've accomplished would be at stake. the commission has also been active in the field of education and training. there is no doubt that we are feeling the headwind at the moment. the climate has become more hostile, the sceptics are becoming louder, agitating against europe in general and against enlargement in particular, and in doing so they like to rely on ignorance, fears and prejudices. i believe that we must work together to ensure that the citizens of europe can recognise the historic necessity of this enlargement and overcome their reservations. in europe after the fall of the iron curtain and in a globalised world, european integration is the only way to tackle the problems that burden and worry people. it is true that we need more europe: for peace and security at home and abroad, for growth and employment, for the protection of the environment, for the highest possible social standards, for equal opportunities for all. the message must be clear: european integration and enlargement are not the problem; they are an essential and indispensable part of the solution. we have the best arguments on our side. the europe of the past has left deep wounds and scars everywhere. the generation in europe whose cities have fallen into ruins, who have suffered hunger and who have known the misery of war, flight and expulsion, that generation is still alive. it is the generation that has suffered for decades under the most violent ideologies of the 20th century. but in addition to the memory of this suffering, another memory lives on in europe: the memory of good neighbourliness, of civil courage, of human decency, of resistance to inhuman systems and of individual courage. there is no doubt that europe, with its close proximity to one another of the most diverse peoples, with the most diverse memories and ways of life, is a fragile continent. the wounds have closed, but the scars are thin, and we all still feel that when i think of the debate which has been re-ignited in recent months on the so-called beneš decrees. parliament will be considering this question legally. i just want to say this: the fundamental link between this question and the success of enlargement lies in the way we talk about it. the debate can only be conducted with mutual respect and with respect for the suffering and the different experiences of all. it must be conducted in a way that does not inflict new wounds but allows for healing. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. that is why we have european unification. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. and he must extend his hand to integration and cooperation. (applause from the centre) ladies and gentlemen, we have reached an agreement between parliament and the commission: the efforts made so far by the candidate countries and the results of the negotiations justify the assessment that one of the most difficult projects undertaken by europe in its history can be brought to a first major conclusion in copenhagen. we are indeed on schedule. the balance sheet of the spanish presidency is positive and i would like to take this opportunity to thank the spanish presidency, and in particular the foreign minister, josep piqué, and my good old friend, ramón de miguel, for an incredibly ambitious presidency. the spanish have certainly pushed us - they can, but that's a good thing. that is what the presidency is for, and the results have been worth it. as mr ramón de miguel has already said, we are coming from the last round of negotiations at ministerial level in luxembourg. the result of this round of negotiations is as follows: we now enter the final round with 10 countries. the union has common positions on all the subjects of the negotiations, including all the chapters of the financial package with the exception of the agricultural sector, but there is in fact only one issue on which there is still no agreement, and that is the question of direct income aid. it is not unexpected that considerable difficulties have now arisen in this matter. it's coming to an end. it's about burden sharing. i think we have to tell the citizens of europe frankly that the enormous political and economic benefits of enlargement are not to be taken for granted. this was fully recognised by the member states in berlin in 1999. yes, solidarity is required of us now, and it is in our interest to show it. the cost of enlargement must be discussed in depth, but then, please, also the cost of non-enlargement. the signal from luxembourg last monday has caused uncertainty in the candidate countries. it would be pointless to deny that. the candidate countries claim to have a promise. they are building on that promise, and it is that if they meet the conditions, they can join. of course, there can always be delays. but i warn against a delay which would be caused by the member states not being able to agree among themselves. i would like to add two brief remarks on this occasion: in the current debate there are two arguments which the commission cannot accept. the first argument is that we cannot conclude the enlargement negotiations in this way because we do not know the financial implications for the period after 2006. this is an argument which reveals only a modest intellectual claim, because it applies to all the policies of the european union. (applause from the centre and the right) there is no european union policy at all whose financial future after 2006 we already know today. i remember very well what the presidency presented in the first half of 1999, after the berlin outcome, namely the agreement of the european union on the financial conditions for enlargement before 2006. i wonder why, if the same figures were sufficient in 1999, they should not be sufficient in 2002. the second point i want to make is that the argument that direct payments to farmers - whether you like it or not, i will leave that entirely open - are not part of community law cannot be taken seriously. it is enough to read community law. it's on the paper. there is european legislation on this subject, which was adopted with the consent of all. so to say that direct payments are not part of european community law is like saying that the moon is purple. you can say that, but it doesn't change the reality. ladies and gentlemen, for the first 10 countries with which we want to conclude in copenhagen, there are still 14 technical negotiating chapters open today. i am assuming that this number will continue to decrease until the end of the spanish presidency. the aim will be to achieve the end of the technical negotiating chapters for the final phase of the negotiations. that's a great accomplishment. i would like to point out in this connection that the accession conference this week succeeded in resolving one of the most difficult and perhaps the most important issues in the whole process, namely the closure of the ignalina nuclear power plant in lithuania. i would like to say that i am surprised at the public opinion in europe. i think that the commission has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the matter, and i think that the commission should be able to do so. (interruption of the debate) yes, like chernobyl - a nuclear power plant of the chernobyl type. (interruption by mr cohn-bendit: as in the ukraine!) yes, but ukraine is not a candidate country and i have no way of influencing ukraine in this context. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the nuclear power stations in the community are not affected by the nuclear accident. this is an incredible achievement for lithuania, because this nuclear power plant is about as important to lithuania economically as the automobile industry is to germany. i think lithuania deserves high praise for the courageous and far-reaching decision it has taken in the interests of the whole of europe. i'm very, very grateful for that. ladies and gentlemen, for the final round of negotiations we now need clarity on how many countries we can expect to be in copenhagen. this is a requirement for the institutions chapter, among other things. the commission will present its assessment of the situation in october, just before the brussels european council, and will make recommendations on which candidate countries can be concluded by the end of the year. i expect the brussels european council to take its decision on this basis. the commission will be guided in its proposal by the principles of negotiation alone. there is no political pre-selection. the only criterion will be whether a country actually fulfils the conditions for accession or not. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. this would ensure that the negotiations between october and early december would focus on very few issues. the first is the question of the total amount of funding. if this sum is fixed, the breakdown between the individual candidate countries and the individual policy areas is more or less a matter of calculation, thanks to the excellent preparatory work carried out under the spanish presidency. secondly, and this is very closely linked to the agreement on the overall budget, it concerns the shape and size of the budgetary mechanism, which was already decided in principle under the spanish presidency. thirdly, we must expect that some of the issues in the agricultural chapter - i am thinking in particular of quotas or direct income aid - may remain on the table until the end. the months of negotiations ahead of us are going to be difficult. but i am convinced that with flexibility and political restraint, sensible solutions are possible. i should like to make it very clear that the conclusions of the european council meetings in gothenburg and laeken cannot be interpreted as meaning that the european union will only agree on its common positions in copenhagen, but that the conclusions of gothenburg and laeken can only be interpreted as meaning that the negotiations themselves will be concluded in copenhagen with the candidate countries, so that they will join in time to take part in the 2004 european elections, as the european parliament has requested. the commission has already mentioned bulgaria and romania for the spanish presidency. i can confirm that. both countries need some time to meet the accession criteria. but that is precisely why they need a clear signal that the train will not have left for them in copenhagen. the commission will therefore put forward proposals for an improved and strengthened pre-accession strategy for those countries with which negotiations cannot be concluded in 2002. the negotiations with bulgaria and romania are to be pursued as far as possible and additional aid is to be mobilised. ladies and gentlemen, the latest progress report, as well as your resolutions, have shown - as expected - that the biggest problems in the candidate countries on the way to meeting the copenhagen criteria are in the area of correct application. the causes of the difficulties of most of the candidate countries are undoubtedly rooted in their past and are a facet of the difficult process of transformation. to help the candidates to do this even better, the commission last year proposed the mobilisation of additional funds and announced action plans. a report on the action plans on administrative and judicial capacity will be submitted to the seville european council. adopted on 5 june. we are very clear and very explicit about the areas where the candidate countries still have weaknesses which will have to be overcome in the future. but let me also say something at this point: the report also highlights the complex and differentiated set of tools for analysing, reviewing and monitoring administrative developments and legal practice in the candidate countries. this is not even close to what happened in any previous enlargement. never before have candidates been so thoroughly vetted. never before has a prospective member country had to expose itself to the critical eyes of all in such detail. i also believe that it is safe to say that never before have future member states been better prepared for their new role. this is another reason why the current enlargement round is not comparable with previous ones. we have very high standards. the approach has, however, borne considerable fruit and set standards in the candidate countries themselves. if we continue to work here, and the commission has proposed to do so beyond accessions, this will have lasting effects which may even be an incentive within the existing union. i know that the commission's reports on the preparation of the candidates, on technical assistance, on institution building, on twinning, on the instruments of monitoring and control, etc., are not of particular interest to the public. but we would not go to that trouble! this is really about the credibility of the whole process. we want to make sure that all avoidable risks are eliminated. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is the ratification of the treaty of nice. it's been known for a long time. the barcelona european council reaffirmed that the treaty must enter into force. but unlike some observers, i am counting on the irish experience of integration, on their support for european integration, on the awareness that integration has enabled ireland to develop in ways that few would have dared to hope for 30 years ago. the question now is whether the countries of central and eastern europe can catch up as ireland has been able to do. that will be decided in the second referendum. on the way to copenhagen, we do not overlook the fact that enlargement brings us closer to important partners in eastern europe. the union will in future also have borders with belarus and ukraine, in addition to russia. in a few years, the republic of moldova will also be our neighbour. the commission's stated aim is to exploit the positive effects of enlargement and to promote the development of democracy and market economies in our future neighbours. the development of a strategic partnership with russia and ukraine has laid the fundamental foundations for this. but i am not only pleased with the outcome of the last eu-russia summit, especially because the discussion in moscow and kaliningrad was confined to the issue of inland transit, a question which concerns not only the eu but also lithuania and poland. you know that the russian side is calling for visa-free access, but poland and lithuania are opposed to this, as are the parliament and the commission. the european union will finally decide on its position at the seville european council. but i want to say: the real problem of kaliningrad's geographical location is how the european union and russia can work together to ensure that the situation in kaliningrad improves and that the region can benefit strongly and permanently from the development of its neighbours. i would be glad if there were an intensive dialogue with russia on this. the public's attitude to enlargement leaves no one indifferent. it depends on a lot of things, on information, on presentation, on our ability to give convincing answers. we all know this from our own political experience. the commission, with the support of the european parliament, has therefore launched a communication initiative which is equally applicable to the member states and the candidate countries. the seville european council will be informed of the implementation. but there is also a need for honesty in this matter. the commission, parliament and the council can do a great deal. but it cannot replace the necessary efforts of cities and communities, of regions and member states, of business and science, of art and culture. recent surveys show that there is still a lack of information on enlargement. i therefore urge that, where this has not yet happened, we should start talking to the citizens and address their questions and fears. the strategy we have is also correct, and the results are already impressive. the same applies to enlargement as to european integration as a whole: we must also stand up for this europe outside the institutions. risks and problems must not be concealed. but it remains the same: the greatest risk to the future of europe in the peace and security we all want, the greatest risk would be to let the historic chance of unifying our continent pass because we are abandoned by our courage at the last few metres. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to thank the commissioner and the commission as a whole, but also the spanish presidency of the council, for the good progress made in the negotiations over the last few months. after talks with the future council presidency, i hope that the timetable which this european parliament originally formulated will be respected, because the political will is there. i believe that we as a parliament must attach great importance to the fact that the appropriate pressure is exerted. mr ramón de miguel has rightly said that there must be a solution in the agricultural sector too, because there is no future. there is no alibi for delay. this is also true in many other areas which the commissioner has mentioned, such as institutional problems. we must put our institutional problems in order, whether by ratifying the treaty of nice or by whatever means. anyway, these are our chores to do. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this cannot be a reason for delaying enlargement, because this would no longer be understood in the applicant countries. we cannot allow any further delay because of our own incompetence. it is also natural that we should evaluate candidates on the basis of their performance. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that we should be able to negotiate in such a way that this becomes possible. this means - and we say this very clearly in our report, also as the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy - that we must not invent new conditions, either on the part of the european institutions or on the part of the member states. the basis for negotiation is the acquis communautaire and not what might still be desirable. but we can't go after that. this must be done in a political process with the future members, but cannot be a condition for accession. sometimes we have to be open in this house. i think that the commission's proposal is a good one, and i think that it is a good one. i may even agree with them politically. however, they have nothing to do with the subject of 'negotiations on the implementation of the acquis communautaire'. it is all about the acquis communautaire. if, for example, the environmental chapters are closed, we should not reopen them because it is thought that a certain road or a certain canal cannot be built in a certain country, if i analyse some of these proposals here properly. i think that we ourselves should be precise, honest and consistent in order to make progress. but if we behave in this way, it also means that the candidate countries must know that each country is individually assessed on its ability to meet the conditions. we see that ten have a chance to do this. we also see that it is able to have the market maturity, to meet the political criteria and at the same time to bring about the legislative implementation of the acquis communautaire. but we will also have to look closely at which countries are able to ensure judicial and administrative implementation by 2004, when accession becomes effective. this is a very crucial question. there can be no political discount on these issues either. we must ensure that this is enforced accordingly. we are also making a kind of request, because it is the only way to do so, to the countries that will be in the first round not to go into a theory of the bus, following the motto 'we are in, the bus is full', and possibly to veto the countries that are to be in the second round. we should also be politically mindful of the fact that candidates who are not present for the first time do not face additional difficulties. the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, which is in charge of this area, is looking with great concern at a number of problems. we see that in certain areas minority issues are still unresolved. the issues of corruption and organised crime are also still important. we attach great importance to the schengen criteria being respected, because it is also important to tell our own citizens that this is not creating an additional level of uncertainty. i also think we must understand that the kaliningrad question must not be a reason for the failure of enlargement. but we must also see that the sovereignty of poland and lithuania must be accepted and that there must be another solution than a corridor solution, which i do not find acceptable for legal and historical reasons. there are so many practical ways of meeting russia's legitimate wishes. i believe that we will find a solution here, just as i believe that it is up to the member states of the european union and the candidate countries to decide who will join the european union. this is also my answer to the question relating to cyprus. we must see that in this european enlargement, when we talk about issues such as discrimination, etc., it must be made clear that all citizens of this european union are equal, that there must be no discrimination against nationals and that there must be no discrimination against citizens living in the european union. this is the only point which interests me personally in the debate on the beneš decrees. we are not here to legally recall the past, but we can only ask that we do not find discrimination in the application of the law today. i believe that a country which operates under the rule of law is also capable of doing so, and if i read the verheugen-zeman paper correctly, i see the possibility of reaching an agreement. i would like to express my support for your position, commissioner, mr president-in-office, that this is a matter of historical importance. and i would also like to add to what i said earlier. it is not that we are trying to bring history into the european union as a tool of struggle, but that we are making sure that we learn from history so that what we have had in the past of suffering, expulsion, murder, wars, will never happen again, and that the unification of this entire continent represents a unique opportunity for us. the european union, starting with the montan union, is about ending the cycle of violence, not about settling accounts, but about stopping the cycle of violence in europe once and for all. it is not a question of dissolving the nation state - the nation state will retain its identity - but of weakening the nation state so that it is never again able to wage war against others. the european union's legal order is therefore the future of this continent. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the enlargement of the eu is entering its decisive phase. the reports and speeches in this series do not conceal any open questions, but they do speak in favour of the accession of the applicant countries. that is a point of view which our group shares. it seems that there are no other alternatives in view of the state of negotiations and the adoption of the common acquis. however, the quality of integration and the problems within the eu itself can also lead to other considerations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is about the eu and nothing else. the eu sets requirements for the candidate countries that are not met in many of its own member states. the backlog of reforms within the union is enormous. the willingness to share in solidarity is not very strong. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration. the reasons for this are too simple to be found in ignorance and lack of transparency. the citizens' debate on europe, which was called for in nice, has not yet been launched on a real scale. the burden of the process of adjustment to the european union is even greater. the reports rightly call on the candidates to take a more decisive stance in the fight against corruption. the causes and sources of this are not mentioned, for example, capitalist privatization and the rapidly growing social contradictions between the growing wealth of a few and the poverty and unemployment of many. the commission's lack of strategic positions on accession is most evident in agriculture. anyone who warned in time that agenda 2000 contained elements that were far removed from reality was branded a troublemaker. the 5% which is open to debate here has a weight of x for the farmers and is not just five per cent. but i think it is naive to think that the enlargement process to include up to 10 countries is solved by the agricultural policy alone. the field of social inequality is much larger. the willingness to show solidarity is much lower and the commission's work in many areas is far too superficial and bureaucratic to meet the new demands of integration. there are many important questions that remain open. a change of trend is needed. i hope she comes at the right time.
the commission has already taken a number of measures. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. in view of the short time available, i should like to focus on one point only, namely the presidential decrees which have been mentioned several times today. in this context, the statement by the czech parliament of 24 april this year is helpful, stating that no new legal relations can now be established on the basis of presidential decrees. we are, however, interested in the question whether there are not discriminatory elements in the current czech legal order, such as a 1992 law on the restitution of property taken from owners during the communist regime, with the condition that the return is conditional on continued czechoslovak citizenship. it is necessary to check whether this is in accordance with eu law, as well as the so-called criminal immunities act of 1946. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the czech republic is able to comply with the acquis. i am firmly convinced that a clear signal to those who were expelled in 1945 and their descendants would be helpful. a signal that the property relations that have been created after the second world war are inviolable and should not be touched. if this signal were to be received, fears in the czech republic would be reduced and the energies currently being consumed by such fears could be put to productive use in the czech republic's preparations for eu accession in 2004.
the commission has already done so. it seems that the member states have somehow forgotten that enlargement is a continuation of the historic project initiated by the fall of the berlin wall. i share the commissioner's view and above all his concern that the project is stumbling because of the apparent lack of responsibility on the part of the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. do you not know that delaying the timetable is what is giving rise to nationalist forces in these countries? i therefore call on all democratic forces here in parliament, in the member states and in the candidate countries not to make this great historic project, for which so many in europe have worked, the plaything of electoral propaganda. i have just had the opportunity in latvia to see how difficult it was to work out the copenhagen criteria piece by piece. it is precisely because of the history and the efforts in latvia that it is not possible to communicate to the people there if the member states are not prepared to do their homework here. it is clear that the obvious failures in european agricultural policy cannot continue unchanged for ever. it is also clear that europe needs a constitution. it is very important that this should take place in parallel with accession and not delay it. the enlargement of the european union was the decisive impetus for encouraging the forces of reform in europe to finally develop a democratic europe. i would like to illustrate this by using the example of latvia. latvia, despite the opposition of the majority of the political elite, has amended an electoral law, thus granting the russian-speaking population unrestricted passive voting rights. this is a matter of course for our countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if this country can do it, why can't we? this comparison may not seem relevant to you. but it is relevant to the expectations of the candidate countries. we must show what we expect of you, namely a willingness to integrate and a willingness to reform. without constitutional reform and financial solidarity, europe will not move forward. the problems to be solved are to be solved here. it is not the place to point the finger at the enlargement countries and say that they should do this or that if we are not able to do it ourselves. i would certainly recommend that latvia should join by the end of 2002, because i believe that it can solve the remaining problems. the commission must also continue to promote decentralisation and a policy close to the citizen in order to make this process a success.
the commission has already taken a number of measures. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the committee on budgets believes that we should send two signals to the commission, the council, the european public and the applicant countries. firstly, we want to make it clear that we want to create the budgetary conditions for enlargement to begin in 2004 with up to ten candidates. secondly, we want to make it very clear to the commission and the council that, in accordance with article 25 of the interinstitutional agreement and on the basis of article 272, the adjustment of the financial perspective is to be made jointly by parliament and the council, on a proposal from the commission, by a qualified majority in the council, by a majority of the members of this house and by three-fifths of the votes cast. i would add that all those involved should work towards the end result being able to find majorities in both the old eu and the new countries. this is a huge challenge and a huge commitment for us. the initial financial perspective includes an indicative financial framework for the six new countries from 2002. but this framework should serve as a basis for negotiations to ensure that the berlin decisions, agenda 2000 and the acquis communautaire are respected. in the light of the decisions taken at the september 2001 plenary session, we expressly welcome the gradual integration of agricultural and structural policies, simply by taking account of the experience gained prior to accession, budgetary discipline, wto rules, but also by taking account of the internal situation of the candidate countries. we also welcome the fact that the existing aid for agriculture in the new countries is to be adjusted upwards to 100% of the aid level then in force by 2013. it is clear that there is a need to discuss the future of the union after 2006 today. will there be an extension or a recast of the financial perspective? what is the situation with regard to agricultural policy, the structure of direct payments, rural areas, new social needs in the light of international competitiveness and the wto? the question of initiating a comprehensive reform of the structural funds mechanisms on the basis of the experience of absorption, simplification of procedures, greater consideration of local circumstances - all this is necessary. i would like to take up what the presidency has said: let us not over-ride the accession negotiations and let us think about it. the european council in strasbourg on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the future of the european union. i do not think that is acceptable. the simplified model of direct payments in agriculture, including the consideration of special support through a separately administered cohesion fund with particularly favourable conditions for the new countries, is a good approach. i would add, however, that along with the improved use of the structural funds in the applicant countries, there must also be talk of phasing out the special conditions. we would like to expressly support what mr verheugen has said about the assistance to the new countries in the field of administrative aid and aid for the decommissioning of nuclear power stations, also subject to definitive decommissioning criteria as a prerequisite for this aid. new members, this means new external borders, this means new partners at the external borders, and this raises new questions with regard to crossborder cooperation and the european union's external policy, including implications for category iv of the budget, and that is why we would like to be consulted on these questions in good time. a financial compensation for the applicant countries as a temporary and degressive lump sum to be shown on the expenditure side, in order to avoid a net contributor situation in the first years, is something we will certainly support. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to conclude by making a very important point. if there are so-called net contributor countries who believe that the cornerstones for the period after 2006 should be set out today in all policy areas, i would like to remind them that a new financial perspective, whatever it may be, will ultimately be adopted by consensus, and that this will make it clear that, on the basis of the commission's proposals for the enlargement process, we have the possibility of ensuring budgetary discipline in the future as well, and at the same time we have the responsibility to find a solution in a balanced negotiating process in the interests of the old member states, but also a solution which meets the legitimate interests of the candidate countries. in that sense, we should all get to work. (applause from the centre)
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the forthcoming enlargement, which we are talking about here, is of course an unprecedented challenge for the european union. the number of members will almost double. the eu's population will grow by almost 50%. what will not increase substantially, however, is the gross domestic product of this new large eu. it will only increase by about 10%. the wealth gap between the current eu-15 and the enlargement countries is enormous. this enlargement will be a great burden for all of us. but we agree: what do they matter in the face of the historic opportunity of the political and economic reunification of europe in peace and democracy, in political and economic stability. but already now many of our regions bordering the candidate countries are feeling the harbingers of enlargement. it is precisely these border regions, which are facing enormous pressures directly in the wake of enlargement of the union, that must bear the brunt of enlargement on behalf of us all. these border regions need our solidarity. we must help them to cope with this difficult situation. of course, not all border regions are the same. one is better, the other is worse. but many have not been doing well for a long time. for many decades these regions have been on the absolute fringe, almost at the end of the world in our view. this is not a particularly attractive situation, which is also explained by the fact that a number of these regions are still objective 1 regions. they still have a large deficit compared to the eu average. the situation in these difficult border regions is characterized by high unemployment, a lack of prospects, including resignation, the emigration of young people, the devastation of the inner cities, the devastation of the villages in the countryside, and the consequent loss of infrastructure, for who would think of building roads, for example, when it seems that no one needs them anymore? the loss of infrastructure, but also the loss of quality of the site, of attractiveness, of quality of life: a vicious circle. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a fact that borders have long been semi-permeable, semi-permeable. this is not necessarily a fair competition, because we know how wide the wealth gap is between these neighbouring regions on this side of the border and on the other side. this means completely different living, working and social costs, and, incidentally, very different environmental standards for a long time to come. a situation which distorts competition to a great extent. it is particularly difficult for small and medium-sized craft and service enterprises, smes, to manage. this is why i have paid particular attention in my report to the support for smes in border regions. i would have liked to have set up a separate budget line for this purpose, to guarantee this support. however, i had to realise that this position was not a majority position, because it is also true that setting up a new funding instrument, for example, takes a lot of time. the time is running out for the smes concerned. they need help fast. i therefore decided not to pursue my idea and to use the proven and long-established support instruments such as interreg. finally, i have the impression that the commission recognizes the absolute need for strong support for smes in the problematic border regions. we should also recognize the need for temporary transitional measures in the field of freedom to provide services and freedom of movement for workers. we need to open it gradually, gently, please. the amendments tabled now, which negate these needs, naturally do not have my support. it must also be said that we are taking care of our border regions very late, and with totally inadequate financial resources. that is also what my report says. it would be unfair to use the bulk of this meagre budget to promote the expansion of transeuropean networks. the tens are of interest to the whole of europe. the border regions benefit only indirectly from this. in the border regions, there is a need for regional transport links, and particularly cross-border regional transport links. there's almost nothing there. what we are now starting with this community action for the border regions is really only a beginning, a first step. let us be aware that reducing the existing deficits is a task for generations. so further action must follow. of course, the border regions are now moving towards the centre of europe, and of course this offers enormous opportunities for the future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. until then, we have to help. let us set an example and put this report on a broad basis of approval in this house. a signal to the citizens of these difficult regions that we are not sacrificing them to enlargement, that we are not abandoning them, but are taking them by the hand to set out together on the road to a good future. (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. before i come to the sapard report, in this joint debate, a few words on the enlargement negotiations. the committee on agriculture and rural development of the european parliament strongly supports the commission's negotiating line in the field of agricultural negotiations with the candidate countries. we call on the council, and here particularly on some member states, to support the commission in its negotiating line in the agricultural sector. i have been a committed reformer for many years in the committee on agriculture and rural development. it will remain so, and we look forward to the commission's communication on this subject. but one thing must be clear: the reform debate must not interfere with the accession negotiations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the converse is also true, of course, that the accession negotiations and the understandably emerging demands of the candidate countries must not interfere with the reform discussion. it will run in parallel, but it must not block each other. we think that is a very important point. of course there is disagreement, some member states do not want direct payments at all, the countries that come, they would rather have 100% - i say to the candidate countries - they will be grateful to the commission again for its proposals. on sapard: so while we are arguing about the level of payments in the accession negotiations, we are not making full use of the possibilities of sapard pre-accession assistance. we're pushing large sums of money like a snowplow. of course, there are reasons for that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. of course, the decentralized management of the programme that has been chosen is a very demanding management. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this was not done for good, benevolent reasons. but we must recognize that we should have known that this generous compromise with decentralized and increased self-responsibility of the candidate countries would not bring the desired rapid success. we hope that this year in particular will see a boost. but we're not going to make up for lost time. that is why we had already recommended to the commission last year from the committee on agriculture and rural development that if we were to manage the programme in such a way that it would ultimately also have a learning effect for the later period of full membership, why not also implement other elements of what we have successfully practised in the rural areas in the union of fifteen? why not include a leader-like programme, which we have called inpard? the committee on agriculture and rural development is of course opposed to this request: ladies and gentlemen, it is too late for that. we don't have the right legal basis. the commission's argument is popular when it does not want something. it may be that if we now enable organisations and people to develop their own creative ideas in rural areas with a leader-like programme, it probably won't start until they become full members. but even then, we would have bought time if we tried to engage them in this way ourselves. and we might have the chance, through such a programme, of having all the money lost - not floating down the rhine, i cannot say - floating back into the coffers of the finance ministers. we are not happy, we all are not happy, we know that! the commission cannot be satisfied that the sapard funds have not been used as we would have liked. but let us at least make sure that we get the last few metres right so that we can see that all the member states - and there are differences in this sapard programme in the individual candidate countries - are learning about the eu and that the money that is badly needed, also in the area of reforestation around agriculture, in the area of slaughterhouses, in the area of dairies, is helping them to produce the quality so that the products are marketable on their own european market. it is also important to make clear to these applicant countries that this is not just about the quality they will have to provide on the eu market once they become full members. we cannot make any difference in the quality of agricultural products produced, whether for the eu's internal market or for export markets. the apology of some candidate countries, don't get upset, we are not exporting anything to the eu at the moment, we are even buying in ukraine and russia, then it will no longer apply. we can't let that happen. we need money and help fast. the money spent now with sapard and other programmes in the applicant countries will save us money later when they become full members. let's make the best of it. (applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs and internal market. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the committee on legal affairs and the internal market is very pleased that the chapters relating to the internal market and the related chapters have already been successfully negotiated. the single market is therefore now established. but we remain concerned about the shortcomings in the administrative and judicial systems of the future member states. i would like to tell you about something i learned in prague this weekend, namely that it takes about a year to register a foreign company in the czech commercial register - unless you invest eur 2 000. in the internal market, there must be no confusion between rights and obligations because of the lack of enforcement of environmental, social and consumer standards. we need fair competition in the enlarged internal market too. i thank mrs sommer for her report. this is a powerful boost for fruitful cooperation and growth at the junction between east and west in the border regions. we strongly support the sme priority and hope that this will also be implemented in future calls for tenders.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i was asked to write a horizontal report on industrial policy, research, energy and foreign trade for 12 candidate countries. that was hard enough. it is impossible to describe this in detail in a minute. i therefore refer you to the explanatory statement of my report. anyone interested should look in. let me address a question which is very close to my heart and point out, a little more specifically than my colleague willi görlach, that coming from a region which has been in the union since 1990 and which has experienced a great deal of solidarity over the last 12 years, i can appreciate very well the efforts made by the candidate countries, the countries of central and eastern europe in particular, to become eligible for accession. i would also like to ask the european union, and in particular the council, and in particular two countries which have always been the driving force behind this union, namely germany and france, to remove as quickly as possible the obstacles to the unification of these countries and to enable us and myself to make a european election campaign in 2004 on both sides of the oder and the neisse.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. - madam president! - what is it? i wanted to impress the commissioner, mr fischler, but unfortunately he is not here at the moment. but if all goes according to plan, we may be able to land a big fish at the end of the year, for once. the fisheries sector is also exceptionally ahead of agriculture in the enlargement process. the fisheries chapter has already been closed with all candidates, albeit with restrictions for poland and malta. however, there are also encouraging developments here, as poland has withdrawn its request for special access rights. the extension will considerably lengthen the coastline and increase the number of fishermen. in everyday life, there are no unsolvable problems, but there may be some difficulties that need to be overcome. in particular, there is a lack of more effective administrative structures, a single register, effective controls, truly adapted hygiene and environmental standards and measures against 'cheap flags'. but we should get a handle on that. i am therefore confident that together we can tackle these problems and set the stage for an enlarged european fisheries.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on employment and social affairs. - madam president! - what is it? the border regions with the future member states of the european union need our full attention, now and especially after enlargement. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the youth is leaving because they no longer see a perspective. we can only stop this negative trend if we support these regions, modernise the infrastructure, establish transport links and equip small and mediumsized enterprises to meet this challenge. they are the ones who create the majority of jobs. if the eu and the member states themselves promote and support the border regions with major problems, including with a view to avoiding wage dumping and unfair competition, a neighbourhood on the border will grow to the benefit of all. the historic task of enlargement must be achieved. we have no choice.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. madam president, from the point of view of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, it is of course important that now that sapard is entering its operational phase, where funds are actually being drained, that these funds be used for rural development and less for agricultural production capacity. i would just like to mention two key figures: the commission has already proposed that the community should provide for a 15% share of agricultural production in the candidate countries and that 50% of the agricultural area should be further activated. it would therefore be wrong to continue to intervene in the production structures in order to improve them. it would be better to create alternative employment opportunities in rural areas, whether in craft or small-scale industry. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we are on the verge of a truly historic accession round. the european house can and will be extended eastwards. at the same time, the european union will be enriched by two beautiful and culturally valuable island states, malta and cyprus, as a result of further southern enlargement. but you will not be surprised to hear that i am now going to deal with one of these two countries, cyprus. cyprus is the country most in line with the acquis. that has already been pointed out. we can therefore safely assume that cyprus will be part of the first round of accession and that the next european elections will also take place in cyprus. the question is: will all cypriots, greek and turkish cypriots, be able to take part in this election? i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the middle east. we wish. we hope so. it is really time that the last divided capital of europe finally became a living capital again, that the cypriots of both ethnic groups can live together peacefully in cyprus. i very much hope, as the president-in-office of the council has made clear, that a political solution will be found by october at the latest. the fact that there are direct negotiations for the first time in a very long time shows the catalytic effect of the accession process that we had hoped for. i also hope that turkey, the candidate country, will understand that a solution to cyprus is in turkey's own best interests and that denktash cannot cling to a two-state model. the solution must be a state capable of acting and making decisions at international and european level, not only in the interest of cyprus but also in the interest of europe. cyprus must speak with one voice. if this solution is not reached by october, then we must ensure that cyprus' accession or membership acts as a catalyst for a solution, because the vast majority of turkish cypriots want to belong to the european union and to be able to live in a free cyprus even after accession.
i have to say, madam president, the nice decisions require the accession negotiations to be completed by the end of the year, with the possibility of demanding the necessary co-decision rights in the national parliaments for the remainder of 2003. in the complex regulatory framework of the accession negotiations, the chapters on agriculture, finance and regional policy have been of particular public interest. the public is more attentive than ever. i am referring specifically to the citizens of the eu. i would ask the european commission to provide the europa points, where they exist, with better financial resources to enable them to fulfil their current tasks. the current proposal to gradually align direct aids to farmers by 2013 cannot be the last word. this model is not convincing because it lacks sufficient justification. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the cap. my group expects that in the long term the european agricultural policy should not be a two-track policy. my group also calls for the integration of the applicant countries into the common agricultural policy to be organised in accordance with the specific macroeconomic developments of the countries, with particular regard to social policy requirements. eu enlargement can only be the joint work of the eu, the member states and their regions. the development of border regions is of particular importance. all actors need to step up their efforts, but they need the targeted attention of the european union and the national states. the current economic development programme for the border regions, amounting to eur 245 million, is not sufficient. availability is linked to further outflows and inflows into the regions, thus putting an even greater burden on the already weak municipalities. however, the burden on the eu budget is small. if the spanish presidency of the council cannot agree on a final outcome on direct agricultural aid - for electoral reasons, as unfortunately happens in germany - then the last few months will be a hunt for opportunities, and in my view there will be only losers.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i believe that much more needs to be done in the eu member states to educate them about eastern enlargement. at least that is what i observe in the events in the constituency with our citizens. i would like to speak today in particular about the challenge of agriculture and eastern enlargement. i congratulate mr olsson on the very successful report on the enlargement of the european union and agriculture. how can the new member states be successfully integrated into the common agricultural policy? this is a key issue for most of the candidate countries and is crucial because agriculture is more important in the cee countries in terms of its share of national income than the eu average. this is also true of employment within the economy as a whole. the accession of 10 countries in 2004 will result in a 29% increase in agricultural area and a 74% increase in farms. the consumer circle will, however, grow by 24%. how can we best shape accession and integration in the long term? i believe that the structural change in agriculture will and must take place in the countries of central and eastern europe. the european agricultural model, with its dual role for farmers - production here, landscape management there - must also be validated there. the high standards of hygiene in production and processing must, in my view, apply from the first day of accession, otherwise european consumer policy will become a farce. environmental concerns and alternative jobs in rural areas are to be financed under the second pillar of the common agricultural policy. we share the commission's view that it is right to start aligning financial compensation payments slowly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if i think that our citizens do not know enough about eastern europe, i also stated at the hearing that the farmers concerned in the applicant countries still have a lot of work to do in terms of information at home. (applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on agriculture and rural development. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am submitting an opinion from the committee on agriculture and rural development on the böge report, and this gives me the opportunity once again to comment on the transfer of direct payments. the committee on agriculture and rural development welcomes the commission's proposal that direct payments should now be given in a certain staggered manner, but also says that this should not in any way prevent us from restructuring aid in the forthcoming reform. we believe that this is not the case either, because the 35% given leaves room for manoeuvre. if it is said that a level playing field is to be achieved by 2013, it is not said what that leveling-off is in 2013. if we had had the 45% modulation at the top of the last reform, which was the idea at the time, we would now have a difference of 35% to 55%. it wouldn't be that big. we therefore expect the commission to make proposals shortly which will lead to reform and which will then, as mr cohn-bendit said, make enlargement possible and stable. we also think that the proposal to grant direct payments in the semi-subsistence sector is reasonable, but we propose to increase them from eur 750 to eur 1 500. this would have taken holdings of 5-6 ha into full compensation. in poland, this would be about 50% of the holdings. so, again, there's the staging, the social component, involved. we see that there is room for manoeuvre. we particularly welcome and call for greater investment in the second pillar when the funds are being re-allocated. these are funds which are needed above all in the candidate countries. it is obvious that the rural areas need development. i would like to say that the commission is very much aware of the fact that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations on the cap for a number of years. we say that it is urgently necessary to involve the civil society in the applicant countries in the work of these projects, so that the joy of the european union will be increased and we can then also sit back with a little more satisfaction and calmness when voting. i would like to ask you, commissioner fischler, to put your bureaucratic apparatus in motion. there are examples. you just need to copy them. we're always ready to help, too.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am speaking as an administrator, and as an administrator you sometimes feel that you must first of all say very clearly that we too, who deal with the finances of enlargement, are in full support of this enlargement. we know that this is not just a financial issue, it goes far beyond that. it is a question of peace on this continent, a question of standards, a question of security for the people who live on this continent, in all parts of this continent. in order to be able to vote on a challenge as big as the one we are facing, we must not only have political will, but we must also ensure that those for whom we make policy, namely the people, give this policy a backing. that is to say, they must have confidence, and confidence exists when they feel that the funding of these issues is also being done properly and in an orderly manner. i would like to say that this enlargement will require something of everyone. if you dream of being able to move about in a flourishing landscape without any difficulties, you do not understand the matter. we want to make the financing of enlargement subject to very strict controls, which means that we do not want to issue blank cheques to the acceding countries, but we also do not want to create obstacles. we welcome to a large extent what the commission has proposed. in the case of the structural funds, one of the most expenditure-intensive areas, we are pleased that it has followed parliament's approach and, in order to increase the absorption capacity of funds in the applicant countries, is seeking to introduce a regulation modelled on what we are doing in the cohesion fund area. we are also very clear that this model is a model for transition. we are not going to create a cohesion fund here, which will then create another model in the future, or another fund, which will then not run out, but to the extent that it is possible to move to the normal structural funds, we will have to do so. we support the commission in the field of agricultural aid. we are in favour of rural areas being seen as targeted units. we also believe that direct aid is now part of agricultural income and that by 2006 there will be a simple model that is financiable, clear and that we can support. for the time after that, we have to think about what it's going to look like. there are no blank cheques today, because we only know the financial framework until 2006. at this point, we can guarantee full support. after that, we'll have to think about it. but this also requires a lot of the negotiators. we shall be very critical but constructive in our support of them. we have a similar situation in the field of foreign policy. if we look at the future development of foreign aid, we must be aware that there are things here that are not yet visible. i will give you a simple example: kaliningrad. we will of course also be very critical of the european union's external aid here, but we are very confident that this is possible and that we can make progress in this area. the citizens can be assured that there are no problems at all until 2006. we need to negotiate properly for the time after that. all those at the table have a high degree of responsibility. we as a parliament will be involved in deciding how things go here and we will be looking at this very carefully. we will, however, be very positive about these questions, because we believe that enlargement of the european union is the task of the future, which must be undertaken, in which everyone must know where it is going, in which it must be discussed beforehand, how much it will cost, but we will certainly be constructive and positive about it, as we have been so far.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! my remarks shed light on the management of the eu structural funds, which is in need of improvement, not only with regard to enlargement. the 12th annual report on the 2000 structural funds, the cohesion fund and the structural instrument for pre-accession of the countries of central and eastern europe shows, as the rapporteur rightly says, a considerable backlog in commitment and payment appropriations. the adoption of the new forms of assistance for the structural funds' programming period has been much slower than expected and desirable, despite the reduction in objectives, concentration and simplification of planning. even if eu finance ministers are currently happy about every euro not spent at eu level, as they are relieving the net payments of eu member states in the short term, this is a misplaced austerity, as eu funds are urgently needed in times of rising unemployment. the reasons for the difficulties lie both with the member states and with the european commission. there is a lack of suitable projects in some cases. the necessary co-financing is often lacking. but there are also significant administrative bottlenecks which are one reason why funds cannot be called in from the member states. according to the 2000 annual report, no intervention was approved for the new community initiatives, so that the budget implementation rate for this area is 0%. it's a disaster. it is therefore necessary that in future the commission should ensure a timely start to the new planning period and insist on early preparatory work by the member states. the commission is also required to strengthen its control of the implementation of the programmes and to inform the european parliament in good time of any irregularities it detects.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it has been stated on several occasions today, and i can only emphasise this, that the advantages of eu enlargement to the east of course outweigh the disadvantages and that many will benefit from this enlargement. but there are also problems, and we must not ignore these problems if we want to involve the citizens, as mr walter has just said. this is particularly true at the points of enlargement, i.e. in the border regions. many of the border regions are already peripheral areas with major structural deficits. that is why we must not leave these regions alone. we have, among other things, the community action for border regions, which i think is a very good instrument. the main part relates to transport. we must give priority to regional transport, as we made clear in the sommer report. it is not enough to invest in tens, because it is not just about the routes from warsaw to berlin or from vienna to prague, but also about the routes from one small town to another small town across the river. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. trade across borders is a necessary step. there is now a pilot project there which has finally started and hopefully will be a great success. but we will only succeed if we simplify the application procedures and if we achieve better coordination between the support instruments, such as interreg and phare-cbc. i would also like to stress that we do not need new instruments, but that we want to optimise the existing ones. finally, we must also consider whether we can increase the co-financing rate in one or another area. the community's action is a genuine european added value. people are coming together in the border regions. you might work on one side and live on the other. this is where they can meet, learn from each other. that is why we should support this process as much as we can.
- mr president, i have to go. as the vice-chairman of the lithuanian delegation, i would like to focus on this country and in this context on the ignalina nuclear power plant. i expressly welcome the fact that it was possible at the beginning of the week to hear from the government of this country, from prime minister brazauskas, that the country definitely intends to shut down the second reactor of this nuclear power plant in 2009. this was made possible because the european union has made commitments for the period 2004 to 2006, totalling some 245 million euros, but i also say that we will have to continue to support the country after 2006 in the whole process of decommissioning this nuclear power plant. i doubt whether the 2.4 billion euros that lithuania wants to have distributed over 20 years will have to be borne entirely by the union, because every country that operates a nuclear power plant normally has to make provision for the time afterwards. i think it is interesting that in connection with ignalina we are for the first time asking a candidate country to do something, and rightly so, which is not in the acquis communautaire, because - god forbid - we have no community acquis on the safety of nuclear power stations. i think that is a political scandal and i hope that we can reach a common standard in the future. i hear that even certain circles in the council, the usual suspects, are now opposed to the fact that the accession treaty with lithuania also expressly states that they must close it and the reasons for which they must close it, because they are afraid that this could indirectly create an acquis. i hope that commissioner loyola de palacio will make good on her announcement that a package of measures will be drawn up for the first time within the framework of euratom to establish common standards for the safety of nuclear installations. this can only be the highest technical standard possible if we want to continue to use nuclear energy, but for me it is an opportunity to really point out one thing: let us not ask the candidate countries to do something unfair that we do not ask of ourselves. in this case, it is right that we should demand this, but then we ourselves will have to draw our own conclusions within the union as regards the safety standards of nuclear installations.
mr president, i would like to compliment the council and the commission for having listened to a five-hour marathon of all the european parliament's wishes on the accession process. you have noted that there are many comments and requests concerning this historic project. i myself am a member of the romanian delegation and a deputy member of the bulgarian delegation. so just a thought: these countries are, of course, very worried about being forgotten. when the door opens for ten countries at the end of this year in copenhagen, the question will be asked in bulgaria and romania: what about us? i would like to ask what signal we are sending to these countries at the end of 2002. is there a schedule for the second round? is there also increased accession aid so that we can improve the process of adjustment? it doesn't always have to be money, mrs. schreyer. there are other ways to help. we must not forget these countries. the first accession process is only the first stage.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! i should like to thank all the rapporteurs who have followed the subject of eastern enlargement very closely, not only this year but also in recent years. i think we have made a pioneering contribution here as a parliament. the political support and the support of the people in the enlargement process is the crucial point, and this can of course only be done by democratically legitimised forces such as members of parliament as representatives of the people of europe. we are therefore faced with an important task. i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, mr böge, also as a member of the committee on budgets, because i think that the financing of enlargement is, of course, the most serious question that is being put to us from all sides and which, of course, also particularly moves the people in the european union - and in the acceding countries, for that matter. i think that the approach we have found in the committee on budgets, mr böge, is a serious approach. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. i think that's a very smart approach. i am also very grateful to mrs sommer, because i think that in her report on the border regions she has succeeded in highlighting the problems of the people directly affected by enlargement, who are already experiencing on a day-to-day basis what it means to live in a region where there is a strong economic gap, and in ensuring that a strong signal is sent from parliament to provide appropriate support, since we can provide the appropriate funds as a parliament in the context of the budgetary procedure for 2002. it was a hard fight, but we made it at the end of the day. i expect that in the course of the 2003 procedure we will still find some money to provide additional funds for these areas.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the main theme of this afternoon's debate is 'enlargement of the european union'. i think that we all agree on one thing, and it has been made clear in the speeches by our colleagues: we want the enlargement of the european union, and we are working hard at all levels to ensure that we achieve this great political objective in a responsible way. the timetable is ambitious. we are seeing the end, although there are still chapters to be solved, such as agriculture and regional policy. in this context, let me refer to yesterday. we had a demonstration of farmers from the existing community outside parliament. they have expressed their concerns about their future and demonstrated for the mid-term review of agenda 2000. they were concerned about a fair future for their businesses and, by extension, for their families. what impressed me most was the solidarity shown by colleagues from the future member states, despite the bad situation our farmers are currently in - falling milk and cereal prices. i have been called upon to do everything possible to ensure that the people of the existing union and those of the candidate countries are not left to their own devices. we need to talk about the problems there, too. firstly, sapard as a concrete example. the funds are not going to be used to the full. they should be preserved for agriculture and the countryside. secondly, the remaining funds needed for rural development must be borne by all structural policies and not just the common agricultural policy. thirdly, full harmonization in the internal market is essential. i'll just make this short and say thank you, because some of you have been here a long time.
- the next item is the report by mr marques, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the proposal for a council decision on the aiem tax system applicable to the canary islands (com (2001) 732 - c5-0691/2001 - 2001/0284 (cns)).
- i must reject the commissioner's latest proposal on moral grounds.
- no, no, mrs lulling, i'm not going to. that's not how it works, forgive me! you may have the floor on a procedural motion, but that's all for now!
- to make this quite clear, mrs lulling, i shall now read to you rule 122 of the rules of procedure, on interventions on a personal matter: 'any member who requests to intervene on a personal matter shall be heard at the end of the discussion of the item on the agenda for consideration or at the time of adoption of the minutes of the sitting to which the request for intervention relates. the speaker cannot speak on the substance of the debate - as you have just done - he can only refute either what was said during the debate and which concerns him personally - not me - or opinions which have been lent to him or correct his own statements. i say this only for the sake of the order of the debate. i let you speak, but you asked for the wrong words. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0182/2002) by mr garcía-margallo y marfil, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision (com (2002) 10 - c5-0027/2002 - 2002/0015 (cod)) adopting a community programme to improve the functioning of taxation systems in the internal market (fiscalis 2007).
- mrs lulling, i would ask you to keep your private conversations, either at a lower volume or outside the chamber, because that really disrupts the debate. you really don 't need a microphone when you 're talking !
- thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- report (a5-0219/2002) by mr berenguer fuster, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive on insurance intermediation (5462/1/2002 - c5-0148/2002 - 2000/0213 (cod)).
i have to say, madam president, i hope you all have been able to strengthen yourselves tonight with the delicious dutch matjes that we were offered here in the house. i would like to thank our colleague, mr albert jan maat, from the bottom of my heart. it was a great event, and i can only confirm - and i think you will confirm this with me - that fish is a fine thing! i do not want to make the vote on the refill a fateful issue in the run-up to the fisheries reform, but i hope that those who reject the commission's proposal for a regulation as presented will agree to a compromise tomorrow morning, namely to allow the return of sea bass alongside cod, just as the commission has proposed for good reason. i've also changed my mind in the meantime. i hope that others will join me, because in the meantime i have checked it, not out of my own good will, but deliberately, on the basis of scientific foundations, for example, from ices. who is going to seriously question their data? has the commission put forward a proposal containing measures to restore cod and hake stocks? both species are seriously threatened in their populations. no one denied that tonight. so if we want to be consistent, the sea urchin must not be left outside. and prevention is better than cure! i'll put that in the book for the doubters. we must deal with the biological conditions and the natural problems of an accurate stock analysis. the fish swims. so no one can determine the exact number. this is why it is a popular game to question the recommendations of the international council for the exploration of the sea (ices). we have been watching for some time where this is going, not just with cod and hake, and not just in european waters. i want an economically viable, ecologically responsible and socially acceptable fishery. to do that, we need healthy stocks first. action is needed to break the vicious circle of more and better boats chasing fewer and fewer fish. - what? other sectors of the economy are also cutting back on excess capacity. unfortunately, the fisheries sector has to get used to this, because the fisheries sector in europe must be maintained, but on its own feet and not at the tip of europe and not without fish in its own waters.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the debate this evening is about the question, and this was the sole mandate of the european council, of how to bring transparency and statistical aspects into the field of agricultural alcohol. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs ayuso gonzález. it has made exemplary use of the limited scope of the european parliament in agricultural matters. the commission's proposal is not a proposal for a directive, but for a directive. the rapporteur has succeeded in working closely with all those concerned to propose a genuine compromise in which all can find their place. after thirty years of discussion, we are now going to introduce a regulation in this area which will provide for the required statistical surveys, firstly under a simple council regulation. secondly, it does not in principle require any statement on the law on aid. thirdly, synthetic alcohol is included, which is a direct competitor of agricultural alcohol. i would urge the commission to abandon its opposition to this compromise line. the commission has so far been unwilling to insist on a unanimous vote in the council in the case of a qualified majority, unless there are legal concerns. but in this case, there is no reasonable reason to insist on unanimity. the commission's instruments are fully adequate to control this sector, which is free from distortions of competition. in the candidate countries, there is not a single candidate who wants to adopt or copy the german model which is the subject of the dispute. if the commission insists on its legal position, i would like to make an equally urgent appeal to the spanish presidency. as far as the interests of german consumers and our cultural landscape are concerned, i would appeal to mrs künast to ensure that, by voting on 27 june, we reach a unanimous decision on this matter. the european parliament has done everything in its power in the course of long negotiations and we now expect your support.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. for years the european parliament has been asking the commission in vain to propose legally binding rules forcing the car industry to reduce the risk of injury to pedestrians in the event of a crash by introducing passive safety measures at the front of the vehicle. the commission has instead submitted the communication on a voluntary undertaking negotiated with the automotive industry. however, this does not only include passive but also active security measures. since substantial parts can take effect immediately, it is a useful tool for achieving the policy objective of reducing annual accident deaths and serious injuries by 50% by 2010. however, i expect all parties to regard the negotiated commitment as a contract to be respected. the commission can certainly confirm to us that information indicating that the car manufacturers are already questioning their commitment on one point is incorrect. the motion for a resolution before us will encourage the automobile industry to intensify its research in the fields of passive and active pedestrian safety and will not contribute to paralysing development, as some lobbyists fear. the public interest is finally being taken into account in the area of pedestrian safety. the proposed two-stage improvement of pedestrian safety is in line with the objectives of the white paper on european transport policy. in phase a, which starts immediately and ends in 2005, there will already be substantial measures. these include the fitting of anti-lock braking systems to all new vehicles from 2003, the immediate technical fitting of daytime running lights to all new vehicles, the obligation to no longer supply vehicles with frontal protection handrails and the implementation of the european committee for the improvement of vehicle safety (eevc) 's modified pedestrian crash tests. however, in view of the importance of the eevc r & d programme, it is suggested that the four system tests be qualitatively developed for phase b. in order to ensure real legal certainty for phase b, the commission is invited to draw up a framework directive. in particular, it should set out a clear timeframe for further steps and detailed statements on the monitoring process. it is also expected that this directive will prescribe consistent, practical test methods that take into account quantitatively more than the eevc test surfaces and that take into account the interaction of test bodies. this poses a broad challenge to the innovation and research activities of the automotive industry. the mature consumer will increasingly evaluate future cars on the basis of their safety-relevant values for occupants and pedestrians and will orient their purchasing behaviour accordingly. security is increasingly becoming a marketing and selling tool. this will benefit consumers and improve road safety. i recommend adoption as voted in committee.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. this new instrument, with which we are trying - and it must be seen that we are trying in a technical field, where we have to admit that we are overburdened as parliamentarians anyway - to regulate technical matters by law, this new instrument requires a double standard of confidence, mr commissioner. we trust the commission first of all, because even before the framework directive comes and we adopt it, we must expect you to check whether the commission is really fulfilling its commitment from tomorrow onwards, so to speak, over the next two or three years. the second trust that is required, and which you must share with us in theory, is that industry actually implements what it has declared it wants to do. i would therefore appeal to industry and the commission to show us and the citizens we represent that legal commitments are a good instrument, particularly in technical areas, for rapid improvements. but as i said, we as members of parliament - and this is how i see it - have an obligation to check whether the commission and industry really deserve the trust, whether they really do what they have promised, quickly and effectively. the second point, commissioner. i believe that when this directive and this system come into force, we as a parliament must also be free not to insist on old technical standards. that is why, mr bouwman, i cannot agree with your motion for a resolution, because in paragraph 14 of our motion for a resolution it is stated that we expect a directive to take either the four eecc tests as a benchmark or other methods which offer at least the same or perhaps better protection. we in parliament should not pretend in 2002 that we already know the correct test methods for 2005 and 2010. i therefore call on the commissioner, mr president, to make proposals to us on the basis of objective criteria and modern knowledge as to what the right tests for the framework directive are.
mr president, i have something to say on paragraph 48 which is a little more important. because it says something wrong. it says: ... a treaty concluded between the republic of yugoslavia and macedonia last month. but the contract was signed last year. he was the trigger for the kosovo crisis. i ask that this great mistake be corrected.
mr president, we accepted the text in its original form during the negotiations. we have recognized the obvious error of not calling a state by its name. that is why it has been corrected and now reads: "the former republic of macedonia". that's the official name of this state. we think that parliament can only make a fool of itself if it gives a state a name different from its own because of certain attitudes or political tendencies! (applause from the centre)
mr president, we must be clear about what we are voting on. i think the text you have in your hand is called 'the former yugoslav republic of macedonia'. if so, it is a separate vote to vote out the 'former yugoslav republic'.
mr president, we have just voted on texts in which it says, for example, 'india' and not 'republic of india' or something else, and so in this text it says 'macedonia'. if someone wants to change this for obvious political reasons, it is an oral amendment which must be dealt with in accordance with the procedure. (applause from the centre)
mr president, contrary to what has just been said, this report says 'cyprus, slovenia, slovakia' from beginning to end! i propose that this be replaced in all cases by the official name of the state. (applause from the centre)
mr president, i would like to table an oral amendment to liberal amendment no 38. it states that the candidate countries should start by implementing anti-discrimination laws. but i suggest they speed up the implementation. this includes the candidate countries which have already started to do so. this means that the english expression 'to start preparing' is replaced by 'to speed up'.
in writing. - (de) mrs ayuso, the rapporteur, has drawn up a text which responds to the compromise proposal between the council and the commission on ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin. the fact that we are dealing with this issue now, urgently, in strasbourg, gives us the chance that after the vote a decision can finally be taken! only then can we get the planning certainty that our farmers and the distillery industry, which has traditionally been based on small businesses, need. it is absurd to disadvantage the producers of agricultural alcohol and not to take synthetic alcohol into account. that is why we referred this matter back to the committee on agriculture and rural development several weeks ago. the change in the language order introduced in the commission's new proposal finally allows member states to decide on additional national regulations of their own. only in this way will small distilleries be able to survive in the eu. the cultivation of potatoes and cereals for the production of alcohol and the use of fruit from scattered fruit trees all guarantee the survival of these valuable crop landscapes, which, without the additional national regulations, would be in great danger.
in writing. - (de) a unanimous vote in the european parliament's committee on agriculture and rural development took place on the common organisation of the market in ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin. i reject a cmo for alcohol of agricultural origin and call for 'light regulation'. that is why i support the compromise proposal tabled by the spanish presidency of the council in its entirety, that is to say without the aid article. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to a firm in difficulty. the production of agricultural alcohol now generates additional income and is therefore a sort of crutch for many family farms. this is not only the case for fruit and the maintenance of the growing landscape, but also for many small and medium-sized enterprises, which need the distillery as a "brick" in the family farm to obtain a significant additional income. that is why i ask the commission to adopt the spanish compromise proposal and the european parliament's position.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the first world day against child labour was declared yesterday on the initiative of the international labour organisation. 250 million children are seen by their parents as an investment in the survival of their entire family. early in life, they are exposed to the most intense physical exertion. it robs them of all ease and childhood. they have been used as cheap labour not only on plantations, in quarries, in mines, but also by manufacturers of sports equipment. and now, during the world cup in japan and south korea, we must not forget that many of these soccer balls were made by children. fifa committed itself in 1998 to eliminating child labour in the production of officially licensed products. but now the richest, most powerful football association in the world has had to admit that it cannot guarantee that. the ppe group condemns, as all the others have said, all forms of child labour. fifa and the sporting goods manufacturers must finally adopt a code of conduct and then also implement it in a controlled manner in order to put an end to this misconduct. the industry, the associations and the governments should cooperate in this, as mrs martens and the other members have just stressed. the european union and the ilo must verify that these labour guidelines are being consistently observed. a step in the right direction is the red card action against child labour, which was launched during the african championship in january this year. we call on fifa, the national teams and the manufacturers of sports equipment to do everything possible to ensure that the 2004 european football championship in portugal becomes the first international football tournament free of child labour. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat child labour, and i am sure that the commission will take them up in the next few months. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. anyone who has ever seen the vast river landscape of the congo or the adjacent great lakes from the air knows that this is one of the most fascinating expanses of land on earth. it's actually kind of a continent within a continent. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. just as religious motives were misused in europe during the thirty years' war for radical political and economic interests, so in the vast landscape of the congo and the democratic republic of the congo people's ethnicity is being misused and exploited for corporate interests, for raw material interests, for the interests of great powers. as in the thirty years' war, the neighbouring countries are involved in this civil war with troops who are not returning to their home countries at all but are themselves becoming part of the marauding gangs in this vast state structure. so, sadly, it is a problem of god that will take a long time to solve. we must first of all consolidate this vast empire that has emerged from decolonization into a state entity. it's just going to be a gradual process. this step-by-step process must be based on what was agreed in sun city, but we must be clear that this will not be possible overnight, but that it will require many, many small steps, and that we can only speak of democracy when we have ensured the elementary functioning of the state. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. belarus is the only neighbouring country of the enlarged european union with which we cannot have a normal relationship. and president lukashenko has been overriding all democratic rules since the beginning of his rule. parliamentary and presidential elections were only there to support his one-man rule and to legitimize it externally. after 1996, when it also abolished the democratic constitution, the osce sent an observer mission to the country with the aim of re-establishing dialogue and helping to restore the foundations of a democratic legal order. it has a very modest mandate, but even that was too much for president lukashenko. the european parliament, the commission and the council also worked closely with the osce mission, and this cooperation increased our appreciation of the performance of this mission, which repeatedly tried to establish a dialogue in a hopeless situation, in order to at least develop the minimum criteria we had set out to find a way back to normal relations. but even that was too much for mr lukashenko, and after the presidential election - and he made that clear in his big speech last month - he does not want to have an osce mission in the country. it is not that this was a country that is not in the osce and that has not accepted the rules, but that it has signed the rules of the osce, of democracy. yet he is paralyzing the media, and anyone who disagrees with him is subject to his arbitrariness. i think we must protest strongly here, and it is clear that normal relations with the european union will not be possible without the beginning of a dialogue on the basis of the osce mission.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think that mr sacrédeus has raised something very important. belarus will be the european union's neighbour in the very near future. what was called poland in the middle ages was in reality a federation of poland, lithuania and belarus in three equal parts. lithuania and poland will be able to join the european union as soon as next year or two, while belarus today seems to be further away than the democratic republic of congo, which we mentioned earlier. this is tragic and is the responsibility of mr lukashenko in particular. the belarusian people took part in the democratic movement which led to the overthrow of communism, in the democratic movement which led to the dissolution of the soviet union. that is why we must strongly support the democracy movement, the human rights movement in this country, which is supported today from prague, from warsaw, from other places, by former civil rights activists and also by us, who are sending these people there the signal that we know that they are europeans who actually belong to us. of course, we must use all democratic and diplomatic means to ensure that the osce really becomes operational there, that the attempt to remove controls fails, that the attempt to hide these repressive measures behind an umbrella of authoritarian measures fails. but i would be very careful about involving moscow in this process, because moscow, as a former colonial power, has of course a responsibility for what is happening in belarus today. we have to work with everyone, including russia. but i see a special responsibility on the part of the european union, which must make it clear that this european people will also have a place among us one day, but first of all the osce, then the council of europe must do their job, and above all, which is very crucial, human rights must be helped to make a breakthrough. we cannot allow the whole thing to be shielded and obscured by a regime. (applause from the centre)
- ladies and gentlemen, i have the honour to welcome, on behalf of the european parliament, a delegation of members of the national assembly of the lao people's republic, who have taken their seats in the official gallery. (applause) this delegation is led by vice-president pany yathotou and is visiting us in strasbourg on the occasion of the third interparliamentary meeting between the european parliament and laos. we hope you will have an informative visit to the european parliament.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. malaysia could be a model in many ways for much of asia, yes, even europe. if you look at the constitution created by the wise founder of the state, tunku abdurahman, where the different states are federated, where the nine sultans elect a common head of state every five years, where the different races and religions live together relatively free of conflict and violence, then you could say that malaysia has the makings of a model state, and also economically, despite the setbacks of recent years, this country has been witnessing excellent development for decades. the more dramatic it is to see the autocratic features that mr mahathir's regime is beginning to adopt. at one point he tries to take action against dissenters in the name of a politicised islam. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of democratization in the world. that's what this internal security act is about, that there should be a proper judicial review, that there should be proper evidence, that there should be proper detention conditions, and that there should be proper legal means to challenge detention. none of this is granted to political prisoners in malaysia. that is why we must use the next eu-asean summit and the next eu-asean summit to press vigorously for a partner as important as malaysia to respect human rights, to return to its roots, to renew the peaceful coexistence of different religions and ethnic groups, and to finally end these repressive measures, which have been steadily intensifying in recent years, which is reflected in the increasing number of political prisoners and which is incompatible with malaysia's status as a preferred partner of the european union.
commission. – mr president, the commission welcomes parliament's motion for a resolution on the abolition of the death penalty in japan, the republic of korea and taiwan. the eu works towards the universal abolition of the death penalty, which is one of the pillars of its human rights policies. in the process of attaining this objective and in accordance with the eu guidelines on the abolition of the death penalty, where the death penalty still exists the eu calls for its use to be progressively restricted and insists that it be carried out according to minimum standards. the eu also presses, where relevant, for the introduction of moratoria. the eu reaffirmed its commitment to the abolition of the death penalty by tabling a resolution at the commission on human rights in geneva this year. many activities which aim to contribute to the abolition of the death penalty have been supported under the european initiative for democracy and human rights. funding such projects has recently been reaffirmed as a priority in the commission's communication, or policy paper of 8 may 2001 on the union's role in promoting human rights and democratisation in third countries. the commission welcomes some of the recent positive steps taken by the three countries concerned, and, firstly, the frank exchange of views at a seminar in tokyo in may 2002 on "justice and human rights in council of europe observer states: the abolition of the death penalty" and the establishment of a japanese diet members' league for the abolition of the death penalty; secondly, the bill tabled to abolish the death penalty in the republic of korea which was supported by a majority of the national assembly last year; thirdly, the amendment to the penal code of taiwan which reduces the list of crimes for which the death penalty is mandatory. however, conscious that a great deal remains to be done to abolish the death penalty in the asian region as a whole, the eu decided in 2001 to enhance its strategy for abolishing the death penalty in that part of the world on the basis of the 1998 guidelines on the death penalty. the forthcoming eu annual report on human rights for 2001/2002 will provide an overview of the action taken in the region. the eu will continue its efforts to abolish the death penalty in the region.
- thank you very much, mr liikanen! the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
- doc. b5-0367/2002 by mr van dam, on behalf of the edd group, on foot-and-mouth disease and the world cup in south korea; - b5-0369/2002 by mr redondo jiménez and others, on behalf of the ppe-de group, mr kreissl-dörfler and others, on behalf of the pse group, mr mulder, on behalf of the eldr group, mr lucas and mr wyn, on behalf of the greens/efa group, and mr berlato and mr hyland, on behalf of the uen group, on foot-and-mouth disease and the world cup in south korea; - b5-0377/2002 by mr jové peres and others, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on foot-and-mouth disease and the world cup in south korea.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the animal health rules are respected. the fact is that the introduction of this dangerous animal disease into unvaccinated populations is causing an explosion of disease. we have seen this only recently, when the outbreak of the ics in britain. we also know what damage will be done. now it doesn't matter whether the foot-and-mouth disease is present or has broken out in south korea or any other country on earth. the mobility of people and goods, which we can move from one place to another in a very short time, makes the danger potentially ever-present. i ask the commission whether the means of prevention are sufficient to eliminate this danger in the long term. we know that the european strategy for the control of animal diseases still has its gaps. the level of knowledge, which normally has to be improved over time, still applies to the case of non-vaccination. i ask the commission whether it is not worthwhile trying to change the strategy for the future control of animal diseases, particularly in the case of the icc, so that prophylaxis is much better controlled. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal is not killed. i've seen it time and time again, when i do open day, the townspeople walk through the stables without any precautions. i think that all of this together would be a way of putting an end to this dangerous disease. i am very much in doubt whether we can eliminate them altogether, and that is the view that we have taken over and over again in recent years. i therefore call for the introduction of a preventive measure, which can also be called a preventive measure, and i ask the commission to give an appropriate response.
commission. – mr president, the commission wants to thank the european parliament for this timely reminder of the risks of foot-and-mouth disease. the outbreak in the republic of korea coincides with the world cup when many thousands of europeans are present to support their football teams. clearly, we need to be alert to any potential risks that they may come in contact with the disease and return with it to the european union. we should not, however, focus our attention only on korea. the fact is that foot-and-mouth disease is widespread throughout the world. all foot-and-mouth-affected countries represent a potential risk to member states and therefore the problem must be addressed in a general way. although it would appear that the outbreaks in the republic of korea are at least 40 km away from the nearest football venues, the potential threat to member states cannot be ignored. therefore, this issue was discussed with member states at the meeting of the standing committee on the food chain on 8 may 2002. i also understand that mrs redondo, chairperson of parliament's committee on foot-and-mouth, raised the issue directly with my colleague david byrne. this is no doubt in the context of the ongoing work of parliament's temporary committee on foot-and-mouth disease. i understand the issue of controls, including on passengers at points of entry to the eu, is the primary focus of the committee's work. the commission has subsequently reminded all member states that, in accordance with eu law they are not authorised to import from the republic of korea foot-and-mouth disease susceptible animals and their products (fresh meat, meat products, meat preparations, milk, milk products, etc.). they have also been advised that imports of foodstuffs from korea by passengers are not allowed under eu legislation. the commission has requested that all member states ensure that public awareness of travellers visiting korea is specifically addressed at airports and that controls at points of entry into the community on goods coming from the republic of korea are reinforced. following the 2001 foot-and-mouth epidemic, the commission has been preparing a number of proposals addressing the issues related to foot-and-mouth, including measures to raise public awareness. the commission intends to present a proposal shortly to raise public awareness and reinforce controls on passengers at points of entry. however, the technical and logistical problems, and consequently the financial implications associated with such procedures, should not be underestimated. it must be borne in mind, that unlike australia or new zealand, the eu has a long land border. there is passenger traffic of millions each year between our member states and third countries where foot-and-mouth disease is endemic. in addition, there are air-traffic links with 90 countries that are not internationally recognised to be free of foot-and-mouth disease and infection. the extent of the challenge is also highlighted by the existing difficulties in combating drug smuggling in international transport. in conclusion, i wish to thank the european parliament for raising public awareness of the risk from foot-and-mouth disease. i am sure that the issue can be addressed in greater detail following the report of the committee on foot-and-mouth disease and in the light of the commission's forthcoming proposals on foot-and-mouth disease. i shall pass on the record of this debate to my colleague david byrne.
- thank you very much, mr liikanen! the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
- the joint debate on the following six motions for resolutions: - b5-0333/2002 by mr messner and others, on behalf of the green group, on nepal; - b5-0345/2002 by mr van den bos, on behalf of the eldr group, on the situation in nepal; - b5-0358/2002 by mr van den berg, on behalf of the pse group, on the situation in nepal; - b5-0365/2002 by mr thomas mann and others, on behalf of the ppe-de group, on nepal; - b5-0368/2002 by mr collins, on behalf of the uen group, on the situation in nepal; - b5-0378/2002 by mr di lello finuoli and mr seppänen, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on the situation in nepal.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the renewed escalation of violence in nepal is worrying and threatens the stability of the entire region. in late may, a night attack by maoist rebels on the nepalganj army camp killed over 100 rebels and many soldiers. since the conflict began six years ago, the number of victims has risen to 3,500. despite international appeals for peace, there is no sign of an end to the violence. moreover, according to information from families in kathmandu and the west of the country, with whom i have been in contact for years and whom i visit regularly, the fighting is intensifying day by day. the rebels are deliberately destroying infrastructure, cutting off the power supply to the population, and assassinating poorly trained police officers and government officials in the provinces. but the overwhelming majority of nepalese still support the monarchy. she is supporting king gyanendra, who has gained considerable authority in the past few difficult months. at the request of prime minister sher bahadur deuba, he dissolved parliament early and called for new elections on 13 november this year. he called on all sections of the population to make a clear commitment to democracy by voting at high levels and thus contribute to domestic political stability. the european union is rightly providing nepal with some 15 million euros over the next five years. but it should monitor, and i speak on behalf of the epp-ed group, that these elections in november are fair, free and secret by sending independent observers. the european union should be available as a possible mediator in this conflict, commissioner. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the progress of the negotiations. we also expect a proper trial for the arrested krishna sen, a leading guerrilla leader, and four other alleged members of the banned communist party. nepal -- i know it very well -- is one of the poorest countries in the world, but also one of the most fascinating. it is deprived of its main source of income in tourism at the moment. why would you do that? the lack of security in this beautiful himalayan region has led thousands of foreign visitors to avoid the country. but apart from orderly relations within this state, what the people of nepal need above all is concrete measures, sustainable measures, economic and structural reforms in all parts of the country, to finally get out of poverty. poverty is one of the main causes of violence.
commission. – mr president, i must admit that i was about to say that finland generously allowed england and germany to go to the world cup because it wanted to be free of foot-and-mouth disease, but the real reason was bad luck in those two games. i now turn to nepal. the commission deplores the increasing number of victims of continuous clashes between maoist and government forces, particularly following the promulgation of the state of emergency. the ec is also particularly concerned by the consequences of the suspension of constitutional guarantees and by reports of abuses perpetrated by terrorist attacks and counter-insurgency forces. the eu was disappointed by the interruption of the negotiations with maoist leaders started by new prime minister deuba in november 2001. the new wave of terrorist attacks is having a disastrous impact on the economy and progressively disrupting the entire development process in nepal. the commission is further concerned that the recent dissolution of the house of representatives marks a blow to democracy in nepal. the anticipation of new elections on 13 november 2002, the establishment of a "caretaker government" and the extension of the state of emergency will not help ensure a solution to the maoist problem. it will further increase the democratic deficit of nepalese institutions, while further delaying the most urgent administrative reforms. the commission calls on the nepalese political class to abandon the internal rifts and personal rivalry that are one of the causes of the endemic state of crisis of nepal. despite the political crisis, the commission is committed to support for nepal's sustainable development. the primary objectives of the new ec cooperation strategy for nepal for 2002-2006 will be the consolidation of democracy, conflict prevention and poverty eradication. development activities will be located in the most deprived areas of the country, including the west, with the hope of improving poor socio-economic conditions of local populations and thereby reducing any pro-maoist sympathies. the commission is at present considering the possibility of supporting the electoral process of 13 november 2002 with eu observers. the commission has also planned the mobilisation of conflict prevention resources through the rapid reaction mechanism following an overall assessment of the situation and a detailed report carried out in february 2002.
- thank you very much, mr liikanen! the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 5.30 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 4.55 p.m. and resumed at 5.30 p.m.)
- mr president, i have to go. it is only two technical corrections. firstly, in recital k, it is 3.5 million. read the speech. no one knows the exact number, so we ask that you simply speak of millions. the other point relates to paragraph 5. it is said that an agreement was signed on 19 may, but as was rightly pointed out in the debate, it was signed on 19 april. we ask that these two points be corrected.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. allow me not to take advantage of the five minutes. i don't think it's worth it in this case. it is a relative trifle. to tell you right off the bat: the legal affairs committee recommends, also on my proposal, by a very large majority, that the immunity should not be waived. the colleague in question is accused by the athens prosecutor general's office of possibly having used his influence as a member of the european parliament with regard to his partner in order to incite her to slander her former partner. the attorney general's office, in its decision to revoke the recruitment notice of the athens prosecutor's office, explicitly referred to the member's status as a member of the european parliament. i quote from the report: the allegation of the complainant - that was the complainant, the former life partner - appears to be valid, since the attached copy of the judgment in soundso gives evidence that he provided at least psychological assistance to the offences of defamation, in any event, also in view of his status as a member of the european parliament and the consequent weight which this gives him. in normal circumstances, in such a case, we in the committee assume that this is a case of fumus persecutionis, that is to say that it cannot be ruled out that the prosecutor's office, in this case the prosecutor general's office, may also take action against the member because of his status as a member of the european parliament. and in view of that, the vast majority of the legal affairs committee felt that the immunity should not be waived in this case. i ask the house to decide accordingly and not to waive the immunity tomorrow. thank you very much for your attention. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. for the second time, the commission is trying to deal with matters which do not really need to be regulated at european level. that is the content of this report and the subject we have to deal with. is the free movement of goods today impeded by national driving ban regulations? i say to you quite clearly that no, because if that were the case, the commission would already have the right to take member states to the european court of justice. it has not done so so far, so there can be no disturbance of the free movement of goods. secondly, we shall never achieve harmonization of holidays in europe. that's part of the deal, too. i think that the great nation of france will never allow the 14th of july to be banned, and we in germany will also resist the abolition of the 3rd of october. that means we have different driving restrictions because of different holidays anyway. thirdly, the commission made a proposal back in 1998 under your predecessor, mr kinnock, to keep the driving ban only on sundays, and that is what they are going for. that is why we must not, in the vote today or tomorrow, agree that the european union should have the right to introduce driving ban regulations in the first place. the principle of subsidiarity requires that these are matters which must and can be regulated exclusively at the level of the member states. that is why we have launched an intergroup, transnational initiative and tabled an amendment rejecting the commission's proposal. i would ask the members to support this motion. the european added value is not being exploited. there is no european added value because the exceptions in the proposal are such that nothing will actually change. the commission has the right to set up information systems without any legislative proposal. it is not enough, madam commissioner, that all the european union's public holidays are announced today only in the official journal. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. but you can do that as the commission, on your own responsibility, and not at the level of a directive. i would ask you to do so so that all those involved throughout the european union are also made aware of the arrangements as they exist in the individual member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is true that perishable goods and especially food are exempt from the driving ban. i do not understand the added value of transporting cut flowers on saturdays and sundays, especially in summer when everything is blooming everywhere - and in winter they are allowed to be transported on saturdays. so please, let's vote against this proposal. if we let the member states decide on this in a subsidiary way, then we will also have the citizens behind us when it comes to europe!
- mr president, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i fully support the savary report on the prohibition of heavy goods vehicles. it is a good compromise, which i support. firstly, member states have the possibility of imposing restrictions on the movement of heavy goods vehicles during the usual periods of time: saturdays, sundays and national holidays. secondly, the scope of the directive was established in accordance with the principle of non-discrimination between national and crossborder transport. the directive covers only crossborder traffic on the transeuropean road network, with the member states having the right to adopt additional legal restrictions on national traffic on the entire road network. thirdly, in addition to the general law derogations, national authorities have the discretion to adopt additional derogations for the ten road networks in cross-border traffic. fourthly, the sanctions and controls of the driving ban system remain the responsibility of the national authorities. the rapporteur has tabled two important amendments. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. mr ferber, we have a difference of opinion on this very important point: the adoption of this directive will create legal certainty and will make it impossible to argue differently before different courts. road safety will be improved and the impact on people and nature will be minimised. member states which already have more liberal solutions will not be forced to introduce more restrictive measures, and member states which have more restrictive heavy goods transport will not be forced to liberalize them.
- mr president, madam vice-president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i wanted to say something back to my bavarian colleague, but he has already left the chamber. that's why i'm putting it on the record. it is bizarre that someone should always call the commission for help when the austrians block the alps. but if we do something really sensible, namely uniform rules on driving bans, then he denies the community's competence. i'll remind him occasionally that you can't use different platforms. it 's logical . we are talking about the transeuropean network, about crossborder transport, and the white paper says that we want an efficient system for using the transeuropean network, and then a member of the european parliament comes along and says that there is no european competence. that's hilarious, i can tell you. this is absolutely ridiculous. even though i come from a country that is suffering from the transit problem, because lorries cross germany from north to south and from west to east, i still believe that we need european rules. we must have rules on how to resolve the conflict of objectives between the interests of local citizens - against noise, against congested roads - and the interests of the economy to be able to provide transport. we deplore the high unemployment rate. if we want to eliminate unemployment, we need economic growth. economic growth cannot be achieved through the internet. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transeuropean networks are not used for the purpose of exploiting the potential of the internal market. it is a very abstract idea to say that this has nothing to do with europe, that each country can do as it wishes. it is even more abstract, since we are facing the enlargement of the european union. we should give the countries that are about to join a set of clear, harmonised rules that they know about, that they can abide by, that they can get used to. there is a need for european regulation. we must simply say that no one, not even the commission, wants to change the public holidays of the member states with the system of efficient declarations and controls of additional prohibitions. this is bullshit! it's primarily about the weekend rides. that's the question! a freight forwarder, an employee, has to know when to go through, when to stop. of course, you also need proper parking lots with sanitary facilities. i would like to ask the commissioner, the vice-president, just one question, and i would ask you to answer it: mr savary, who was a very good rapporteur, has proposed this european road traffic information mechanism. are you prepared to support that? i would also say to mr markus ferber that if we want an efficient information system, we must put it in a directive to oblige the member states to cooperate. in the case of voluntary systems, we know that member states do not provide up-to-date data. so we need this. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and i think that this report really takes us forward on an issue which is of great importance politically, economically, environmentally and energy policy. the production and use of biomass fuels is a political and economic alternative to oil imports. demand for energy for transport purposes will continue to increase. we all know this, because society is becoming more mobile and with the enlargement of the union, transport volumes will continue to increase dramatically in europe too. security of supply is essential for europe's economy and jobs. the tax incentive approach is therefore the right one, because we can expect that in a few decades it will be possible to completely substitute oil imports for fuels by extracting fuels from biomass. it is therefore right to promote biofuels at european level through fiscal instruments for a transitional period. it is not enough that in a common internal market some countries have developed instruments and others have not. biofuels are subject to the mineral oil tax because of their own hydrocarbon content and the necessary mixing with mineral oil. it is therefore right that we should recommend to the european parliament in plenary that it should go beyond the commission's proposal and think not only of reduced tax rates but also of tax exemption as a benefit, in order to promote decisive support once again. the tax incentives, whether in the form of reductions or exemptions, lead to significant cost reductions, thus ensuring the competitiveness of biofuels. at the same time, this support can create jobs in agriculture and plant engineering, which in turn lead to higher tax revenues and social security contributions. finally, the production of biofuels is labour-intensive and generates higher employment effects than the production of conventional fuels. the more favourable tax treatment at community level is in line with the internal market and is also appropriate to enhance the union's competitiveness. innovation can be achieved in the fields of process, cultivation and harvesting technology, but also in the field of automotive production. community quality standards for biofuels, based on the state of the art in motor technology, would make it possible to advance motor technology, leading to the zero-emission car, which would probably also be an export hit. all of this is boosting growth and creating jobs. this is also true for the export of relevant products and processes to countries whose economies are now dependent on oil imports.
- madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i welcome both initiatives of the commission on biofuels. the proposals to grant tax reductions or exemptions for biofuels and to provide for incentives with a clear target catalogue for the consumption of biofuels will help to reduce the european union's high dependence on oil imports in an environmentally sound way. i would like to limit myself to the proposal to promote biofuels. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs ayuso gonzález, for presenting an excellent draft report, and i would also like to thank her for the very good cooperation she has shown. the promotion of biofuels is part of the union's overall strategy to double the share of renewable energy sources by 2010. we have good reasons for this strategy. the eu committed itself in kyoto to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 8%. transport is a major source of pollution. the same applies to ensuring security of supply, and the promotion of biomass as an energy source is also bringing new and important impetus to rural development. i therefore welcome the fact that the spe group has confirmed the commission's line to set binding national targets for biofuels. however, i have tabled a compromise amendment with the rapporteur, who has already mentioned this, which proposes to link indicative targets with a possibility of revision. the background has been explained by the rapporteur. the only thing that really matters to us now is that we are going to the council, that is to say, we are prepared to set indicative targets. but that also means that we expect the council to respond this week to the requests made by the committee responsible in various areas. it is important that environmental and climatic conditions are also given special consideration here, that agricultural practices are reviewed accordingly and that it is not at all acceptable that the council - as it is probably seeking to do at the moment - envisages an opt-out for each member state without any major barriers. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a directive on the protection of workers from the risks arising from exposure to carcinogens. we are ready for a quick agreement and we want it in the spirit of the matter, but this agreement cannot be reached at any price. we hope to reach an agreement with the council by thursday.
- madam president! - what is it? the promotion of biofuels makes sense. i think there is agreement on this, not only with regard to the use of alternative raw materials but also with regard to the co2 target. the co2 target should not be overestimated. i would caution against seeing it as a carbon problem only, because biofuels are much more expensive and the co2 savings potential is comparatively expensive and low. i also see a question of alternatives for agriculture, not just improving energy independence, but also a way for our farmers to offer alternatives that strengthen their own energy base in the face of growing surplus problems. that is why the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy has adopted by a large majority the very good report by mrs ayuso. we have also tabled a number of amendments, madam commissioner. it would be good if the commission could take over this task. the first concerns the question of forced assimilation. we believe that the solution is not to mix the fuel, but to achieve the overall objective, whether by using it as a single fuel, as is already possible in my diesel, for example, or by using alternatives. that's the one point. the targets, yes, but not in the form of forced mixing. secondly, what is the evaluation? mrs rothe has already raised this point: what was emphasized in amendments nos 68 and 69 by mrs ayuso and mrs rothe has been taken up in many individual motions by the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy. we want to have an impact report by 2006 before we go beyond 2%. so we want a clear ecological balance, we want a clear balance of co2, of the alternatives. before we make it compulsory to increase the target to 5.75%, which is the limit of the area in the european union under the current models, we want a balance sheet and a report from the commission every two years thereafter. if we can reach an agreement in this package, then that is a good proposal and we will move forward. if the commission can respond to this, there will be a large majority. it's much more difficult with the tax exemption. in my experience since 1994 the member states have been selfish in their taxation policy and an agreement on a single energy tax is still a long way off. there has been a directive on this since 1992. six member states have applied them. in my own country, the german federal council decided last friday to grant a total tax exemption, a very large exemption. but in other member states it is not on the agenda. i therefore have little hope that the second council directive, on which parliament can only give its opinion, will be adopted in the foreseeable future.
- mr president, i have to go. there is a great deal of unity in parliament on this issue, and that is a good thing. the problem is more likely to be on the council's side. and i just hope that it will not be like many years ago when then commissioner scrivener put forward a similar package and the council finally said no. i hope it goes better this time. it has been rightly said by a number of speakers that there are cheaper ways of avoiding co2. and i guess you can't argue with that. on the other hand, biofuels offer a number of advantages which should not be underestimated. the energy dependence is reduced to the extent that we produce biofuels. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and thirdly, and i say this as someone who is a little bit into technology, i think there will also be something called a technology boost, which means that new processes, new technologies will be developed, and companies can rest assured that they will be supported for years to come if they start working with biofuels, and that's a good thing. i would like to draw attention to two other things which will certainly follow from this directive and which may not be pleasant for everyone, as i have already said in committee. the biofuels directive will of course also increase the desire and the efforts of biologists to create renewable raw materials that are more environmentally friendly and more efficient. that's something to remember. secondly, we must import biofuels, which means that for countries like brazil, argentina and the usa, europe is a new market and we should make sure that we are not only creating a market for others, but also a market for ourselves.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for her dedicated work. i would also like to thank the vice-president of the commission in particular for her ambitious proposal. i would like to thank you very much, commissioner, for proposing binding targets, because i think that if we do not have binding targets, this directive will be worth less. it is right that we should not have exaggerated expectations of the directive. it will not solve the whole climate problem, it will not solve the whole energy problem, but it can contribute to energy security, it can contribute to climate protection, and it can bring additional income opportunities for agriculture. now there are concerns. the concerns are: intensive farming is being promoted. of course there is intensive agriculture, but there is also extensive agriculture, but i have never seen a refinery that extensively produces traditional fuels. it's always intense environmental pollution, concentrated in one place. the life cycle and environmental impact of the biofuels production are mentioned. who calculates the life cycle of traditional fuels? we must also take into account other factors, such as the transport from the oil-producing areas to europe, the possible disasters as in the case of the tanker "erika". if the "erika" had bio-diesel on board, the environment would be fine. so if you want to list the disadvantages of biofuels, you should also mention the disadvantages of traditional fuels. i believe in technology, and i believe in innovation. if we set a clear framework, biofuels in europe will be much more efficient, cheaper and also more environmentally friendly. we just have to set the framework. i therefore ask you to support in particular amendments nos 25 and 33, which put eco-efficiency at the forefront and make it a criterion in the directive. my vote on thursday, whether i agree to a compromise with the council at all, will be guided by whether amendments which we have unanimously adopted in committee, such as amendments nos 25 and 33, are actually adopted. if not, i cannot agree to a compromise at first reading.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. ecological and biological are hot words of the moment, and they are often hollow. it is certainly not enough to put a 'bio' in front of the word 'fuel' and a 100% biofuel has already been created. i agree with the critical voices of my colleagues on this. what does biological mean? i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i would ask, however, that the same approach be followed when assessing normal fuel and that we not be tempted to use two different standards. i believe that the ecological balance also includes the economic evaluation of biofuels, and also in comparison with conventional fuels. we have the opportunity here to build our own market in the european union, which means more jobs in the union, in production and in processing. but a market of its own also means independence, independence from world markets and from world economic crises. we will never achieve complete independence in europe in the field of fuels, because our consumption is too high for that. but we can at least provide some of the fuel we need in the future. for agriculture in the european union, as has been mentioned many times, the cultivation of renewable raw materials could be a welcome additional source of income. land that is being neglected would be put to good use, and something new and important would come out of it. in conclusion, i would like to say that any new market needs political, financial and, most importantly, ideological support in order to be able to establish itself permanently. i would argue that at least 50% of wind farms would not be built without subsidies, and not all of them are efficient. we are doing everything we can to ensure that these reports are put to the vote, and i would ask the house to support these reports.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to thank mr luckas vander taelen very much for this report and for his dedicated work in the european parliament. he is a true advocate of european cinema. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. i think we can continue to work very well together. i would also like to thank the commission for the report it has presented. this report gives us an opportunity to take stock of the situation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think the interim report shows one thing: european cinema is strong when we work together, that is to say parliament, the commission, the council, which is sometimes very difficult, and the professional associations. the balance sheet of the last three years shows that we have achieved important things. i would like to make just three points. firstly, the share of non-national european works shown in cinemas in the european union has increased by 21% in the last year. this is a very important contribution which our media programme has made to this important objective. secondly, thanks to the initiative of commissioner reding and parliament, the european investment bank has set up a fund to provide the much needed risk capital for audiovisual works, totalling eur 400 million this year alone - an important step in the right direction. thirdly, the commission has reviewed the competition laws of the member states in relation to film funding and has generally recognised them as legitimate, so that we have a substantial increase in security for european film. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. but we must also - and this is my appeal to the council, which calls for subsidiarity - solve them by means of appropriate initiatives by the member states. i shall only mention three points. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next partsession. we need pilot projects for the digital heritage and we need appropriate provisions for the future of european cinema. (applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. on 12 march 2002, the commission recommended that energy networks be included in the present amendment to the regulation. the background is the proposal to amend the guidelines on transeuropean energy networks, for which mr beysen is the rapporteur in the committee on industry. the commission proposes to increase the ceiling from 10% to 20%. the investment is intended to ensure a high level of security of energy supply, and this is to be achieved by increased investment to solve the multiple problems of planning and implementation in the area of infrastructure development. the aim is to create a genuine internal energy market, including the regions and policies that are currently not covered or implemented. this includes the enlargement countries. the committee agrees with the regulation, which adds the following: the investment envisaged is to be invested in economically necessary and economically viable projects for the eu. there must be no distortion of competition. the increase in the community funds for energy networks provided for in the financial perspective for 2002 to 2006 must be excluded and a regular report from the commission to parliament must be submitted listing those projects which can be expected to be completed quickly by the increase from 10% to 20%. i should like to thank the rapporteur very warmly for having been able to adopt the proposals of the committee on industry with slight variations. i would like to thank in particular my colleagues mr beysen, mr mombaur and mr turmes, who have worked very hard to complete the report, in part by means of amendments and proposals. i would like to thank the secretariat and especially the commission.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there was a terrible plane crash in überlingen, near lake constance, two planes collided. at present, there are reports of about 80 victims, including children on a holiday flight. i think it is an occasion for the european parliament to express our sympathy to the families of the victims. but it is also a reason to reflect on how such an accident could have happened in the first place and whether the fragmentation of air traffic control between military, national and european authorities that we have in europe at the moment has not contributed to this. we are hearing more and more reports from pilots about how complicated it has become to fly over european airspace. this terrible accident, this terrible misfortune, should be an occasion for us to take the european air surveillance we are calling for seriously.
- thank you very much, mr von wogau. i'll ask the president to extend our condolences to the families of the victims.
- mr. cappato, our services inform me that you will receive a response before the end of the day. approval of the minutes of the previous sitting - debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance (announcement of motions for resolutions tabled): see minutes.
- the agenda calls for the joint debate on the following three reports: :- a5-0247/2002 by mr färm, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the 2003 budget with a view to the conciliation procedure before the council's first reading [2002/2027 (bud) ]; - a5-0246/2002 by mr podestà, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the 2002 budget: implementation profile, transfers and supplementary and amending budgets; - a5-0248/2002 by mr podestà and mrs buitenweg, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on draft amending budget no 3/2002 of the european union for the financial year 2002.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on agriculture and rural development. - mr president, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. we are facing a pronounced - or at least intended - austerity budget. we are two billion euros below berlin in the agricultural sector, and berlin is 10 billion euros below the current agricultural guideline, which has not yet been repealed. we are down to 126 with 20 billion euros. we send back large amounts of billions every year. the european parliament must therefore do its job and use the budget that has been promised to us for sensible political action. the same applies to agriculture, and i thank mr färm for taking up the proposals put forward by the agricultural sector in the main. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. he wants to divert part of the cost of enlargement from the agricultural budget - but what happens? we'll start the savings discussion right away. commissioner schreyer, you are also involved in this, and i think that, to put it bluntly, this is a wrong argument, because it is not about saving in agriculture. it is not that too much money is going into agriculture and rural areas in europe, but - to put it bluntly - it is going into the wrong channels. we have great tasks ahead of us, and reforms cost money. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this means that we must strike a balance between the first and second pillars if we are to achieve acceptance of the reforms. radical cuts within the first pillar will not be taken into account. i agree with you: it is good to cut off other people's skin, and it is clear that the net recipients here have very different ideas than the net contributors. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the first question to be asked is, of course, whether it makes sense for one side of the budgetary authority to define its strategy for a conciliation procedure with the council at first reading through a parliamentary debate and a parliamentary decision. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the council is not a very large body. the information we are going to discuss here will not be passed on to the other side of the budgetary authority. i am very grateful to mr färm, however, because this has of course given us the opportunity to reflect on how we want to approach the 2003 budget as a whole long before the individual consultations on individual budget lines. let me make just a few remarks on this. firstly, i think it is a little strange, madam commissioner, that on the one hand we have a supplementary budget, which means that we are returning 15 billion euros to the member states, i.e. a figure of well over 15% of our budget. on the other hand, when drawing up the 2003 budget, we must use the flexibility instrument in areas where it does not belong, namely to safeguard administrative expenditure. something's not right here. this has little to do with the budgetary imperative of truth, clarity, transparency and all the things we always discuss in theory here. i would also point out that the flexibility instrument was not introduced in berlin to give the commission the opportunity to make changes in advance when drawing up the budget, but to provide timely answers to current political challenges. administrative expenditure is not a current political challenge, but something that must be done through the budget in principle. let me also turn to the subject of civilian crisis management. we in the epp group have serious reservations about the creation of a new savings box, a new flexibility instrument, which is to be used here to finance such problems. i also find it hard to understand that the commission is promoting this idea in this way, when it is well known that the council will not in any case adopt it. you could have done something smarter. we have proposed as the epp group - and i hope that the majority of this house will agree with us - that we should find a way of making budgetary resources available here through the emergency reserve and also find a way that the council can follow in the end. let me conclude by saying something, commissioner. i am beginning to get annoyed by the fact that every year the same procedure is followed when it comes to promoting partnerships between towns and cities. now you've reduced the amount of money you put into the section again. the council will cut again, as we are used to, and we will have to increase again in the end. you know exactly what parliament wants. then write it in the budget. this is a fight we shouldn't be fighting together.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the podestà report on the implementation profiles is a very important report and i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur, mr podestà, very warmly. and those who know me know that this is not my usual ritual, but i think guido podestà deserves my thanks for taking over the role of our former colleague and rapporteur-general for 2002, carlos costa neves, and for continuing the work i started in 2001 of monitoring the implementation of the budget over the financial year. it is a tedious job and not as attractive as the work for the coming financial year. the implementation of the budget and the financial resources for the objectives we decide at the end of one year for the next, by the commission, this implementation deserves a fair share of attention. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a closer look reveals that the total of transfers represents a shift of funds between the various lines of about 1% of the total budget. not too much, you might say. but a lot of money is not spent at all! several colleagues have pointed this out. the member states will receive back from the 2001 budget eur 15 billion, more than 15 times the total amount of transfers. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas, which is the subject of a proposal from the commission, is a very important one. trust is good, control is better. (applause from the centre)
- the joint discussion is over. the vote will take place at 12.30 p.m.
mr president, mr president of the spanish presidency, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! first of all, i would recommend that we conduct the debate as we have done for many years and not allow it to be interrupted by any news that is not appropriate at this time. mr president, on behalf of our group i would like to express my warm thanks and appreciation to the spanish presidency for a successful presidency, and the great applause from the whole house has already expressed this. president aznar, you have come to this parliament three times and have set an example for other presidencies, and i hope that other presidencies will follow suit. a free society can only survive if we firmly oppose all forms of terrorism, and you have shown exemplary commitment here, even in the face of the terrorism of eta in spain, long before 11 september 2001. i would like to say to you on behalf of our group that we will stand by you in defending freedom and democracy against terrorism! (applause from the centre) mr president, you have made a major step forward in asylum and immigration policy - you have spoken about it. we are in favour of securing our borders and we are also in favour of an integrated european border guard. but it is also important - you have also spoken about this - that we fight the causes of immigration vigorously, that we counteract them, and the valencia conference was an important means of strengthening the mediterranean dialogue. we in the epp-ed group are firmly convinced that we must strengthen our relations with the arab and islamic worlds, that we must not equate terrorism with the arab and islamic worlds and that we should do everything possible to create a society, especially in north africa, which provides the conditions for young people to stop emigrating and to have a future in their own country. president aznar, you have spoken, like mr prodi, about the enlargement of the european union. i would like to thank you for your commitment as a representative of the southern part of the european union to the accession of the countries of central europe, but also of course cyprus and malta. i have the express mandate of my group to state: we consider it irresponsible that a head of government, namely the federal chancellor of the federal republic of germany, should now attach conditions to enlargement by first achieving results in the agricultural negotiations with regard to payments. we consider this to be irresponsible, because it damages confidence in the european union in the applicant countries and ultimately leads to the promotion of anti-european sentiments in these countries. we therefore call upon you and ask you ... (interruption)... yes, you do not like to hear this, but i am telling the truth, and if you were to criticize this too, mr president, you would be a little more credible than here with your interruptions! (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. they have also been committed to the stability pact, and we say here that stability is the basis for confidence in the single european currency. whether it is a large country or a small one, if the stability and growth pact is being violated, then a blue letter must be sent to those countries and i call on all of us to defend the stability of the european currency. you mentioned the convent. i welcome this very much and we are in favour of common solutions to be worked out by the convention. under the spanish presidency, we have been able to take a big step forward with the interinstitutional agreement on foreign affairs, security and defence policy. but now there are rumours that the general secretariat of the council does not want to classify certain documents at all. i hope that this will not lead to the end that we are being denied documents, but that we are actually being held to what has been agreed, as the spanish presidency has done. we have great confidence in the interinstitutional agreement which we expect to be negotiated not only at a high technical level but also at a political level, in order to achieve a really better european union legislation. i would like to conclude, mr president, by congratulating you on the reform of the council, which is going in the right direction. i think we should continue to work on this basis in the future. i thank you for the success of our group's presidency, and we trust the spanish government and the spanish prime minister to continue the path we have followed over the last six months under the danish presidency. i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for his reply and to thank the commission for its work. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! the european union's progress in combating illegal trafficking in human beings and immigration is to be welcomed. this is particularly true for better counterfeiting security and the protection of the eu's external borders. the fact that more than 500 000 illegal immigrants enter the european union every year is unacceptable. they are a constant source of crime, oppression and enslavement of people, endangering their lives and bodies, even the lives of children. the european union has a duty to help the victims of trafficking in human beings. both of them, out of greed, shamelessly exploit the plight of the people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union is not yet able to complete its homework in time, and that is why we cannot call european unification into question. the threat of the federal chancellor schröder to suspend direct payments to european agriculture would have a catastrophic impact on the competitiveness of european agricultural policy, given that the americans have just drastically increased their payments to agriculture. europe must keep its course, especially in difficult times. the proposals put forward by you, mr president of the council, and by the commission, mr president of the commission, are a good basis for the further development of the european union. the outcome of the second irish referendum, however, still hangs like a sword of damocles over the enlargement to the east. the european union must improve its overall image in this area if it is to reach the hearts of the people.
- the next item is the report (a5-0220/2002) by mrs kauppi, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the 2001 annual report of the european central bank (c5-0196/2002 - 2002/2092 (cos)). i would like to welcome the president of the european central bank, mr duisenberg. we are very happy and proud to have you among us. we are all eager to hear your explanations in view of the rise in the value of the euro! the composition of parliament: see minutes.
ecb. – mr president, six months ago we witnessed a milestone in european history: the launch of "the euro, our money", in its visible form. european citizens are now able to perceive – and to benefit from – the tangible reality of the euro, and the rapid substitution of what we call the legacy currencies at the beginning of this year bears witness to the successful launch of the euro banknotes and coins. the year 2001 provided a particularly challenging environment for the monetary policy of the european central bank. the worsening economic outlook was accompanied by short-term upward pressures on prices from various sources, which complicated the conduct of monetary policy. this task was made even more difficult by the extreme uncertainty which followed the terrorist attacks in the united states on 11 september. as usual, the monetary policy response of the ecb to such a situation had to look beyond short-term developments, focusing on the risks to price stability over the medium term. from this perspective, we could see that medium-term inflationary pressures were in fact receding. the ecb took account of this by reducing interest rates four times in 2001, by a total of 150 basis points. as a consequence, the minimum bid rate on the main refinancing operations of the ecb – the most important amongst our key interest rates – reached 3.25% in november 2001. the key ecb interest rates have remained unchanged since november and short and long-term real interest rates have been, in a historical perspective, very low. the average annual inflation rate in 2001, as measured by the harmonised index of consumer prices, was 2.5%. inflation in 2001 was affected by the lagged effects in import price increases in 2000, and by the new impact of livestock diseases on unprocessed food prices. we are not satisfied with such an outcome, which is not in line with price stability. however, it has to be recognised that the factors which contributed to shaping this outcome could not be controlled by the ecb. in fact, monetary policy only affects inflation with a lag and cannot control it in the short term. we are satisfied that our policy last year was very well understood by our observers and by the markets. in fact, the level of bond yields, as well as various other indicators of inflation expectations of economic agents, pointed to continued confidence throughout 2001 in the ecb maintaining price stability in the medium term. there were – and there still are – some concerns about the possible impact of the cash changeover on euro area inflation, which have also been echoed in the draft resolution on the ecb's annual report prepared by your committee on economic and monetary affairs. indeed, the increase in annual consumer price inflation in the euro area from 2.0% in december 2001 to 2.7% in january 2002 has unfortunately been associated, in many people's minds, with the cash changeover. in reality, other factors contributed to this increase, such as the rise in vegetable prices related to adverse weather conditions, particularly in southern europe, and higher tobacco taxes in several euro area countries. but it has also to be recognised that, in particular in some sectors with a low level of competition, some upward price adjustments might have occurred in connection with the cash changeover. however, there were also price reductions in the euro area associated with the cash changeover and statistical evidence has so far confirmed that the effect on the overall price level has been contained. turning now to the current economic situation, over the past few months economic conditions have gradually changed. the impact of the terrorist attacks on economic confidence has gradually faded away and economic activity has stabilised. while the strength of the ongoing recovery is still subject to uncertainty, the most likely scenario is for economic activity to gradually accelerate and reach levels in line with trend potential growth later this year. regarding monetary developments, we saw a high demand for liquid and safe assets in the autumn of last year, particularly associated with financial market uncertainty following the terrorist attacks. we saw some moderation in early 2002 but recent data indicate a new increase in the demand for liquid assets. in addition, the decline in the growth of loans to the private sector has come to a halt and credit demand has recently strengthened. these developments need to be closely monitored, as they may start to point to upward risks to price stability, in particular during a period of economic recovery. overall, the outlook for price stability is now less benign than it was in november 2001, when we last adjusted the key ecb interest rates. inflation has so far declined less steeply and less rapidly than we expected at the turn of the year. this again has been partly due to the temporary factors i mentioned before, and to the renewed increase in oil prices in the first quarter of 2002. at the current juncture, even though the appreciation of the exchange rate of the euro will contribute to easing inflationary pressures, we will continue to closely monitor all relevant developments, against the background of the risks that the deviations from price stability, which followed the exceptional clustering of upward shocks on inflation over the past couple of years, may be transmitted into longer-term inflation expectations, thereby potentially affecting wage and price-setting behaviour. in order to maintain price stability, it is crucial that wage moderation prevails also in the future. in this respect, we are concerned about recent trends in wages here and there. the importance of wage developments in line with our definition of price stability cannot be overemphasised. wage moderation is a key factor in favouring the expansion of employment and in helping to create the conditions for a sustainable increase in the potential growth rate of the euro area economy. current estimates for trend potential growth in the euro area are in the order of 2-2½% and there is much scope for raising potential growth in the euro area. the ecb will make its contribution by focusing on maintaining price stability in the medium term. but other policy actors also have to take up their responsibilities. the broad economic policy guidelines for 2002, which have just been approved in seville, place the emphasis quite rightly on the need for further structural reforms in the euro area. i understand that this view is also shared in the draft resolution. the future welfare of euro area citizens will also depend to a large extent on the prudent conduct of fiscal policies. the solidarity pact of our monetary union requires all participants to maintain a medium-term perspective in compliance with the framework of the stability and growth pact. this implies that budgetary positions in all countries should be close to balance or in surplus over the business cycle as a whole in order to allow sufficient room for a smooth functioning of automatic stabilisers. we have seen some worrying developments in fiscal policy in some countries over the last few months. we therefore recall the importance for those countries that still have not achieved a balanced budget position to honour their commitments to catch up with the other countries of the euro area by 2003/2004. let me now turn to some other issues raised in the draft resolution on the ecb's annual report. we welcome the draft resolution's clear support for the ecb's monetary policy strategy. the draft resolution concludes that short-term movements in monetary aggregates should not be overemphasised and that there should not be any mechanical reaction to deviations of m3 growth from the reference value. this is fully in line with the ecb's monetary policy strategy and practice. the first pillar of our strategy, which gives a prominent role to the analysis of monetary developments, is based on the empirical evidence of a close and stable relationship between money and prices in the euro area over the medium term. there is no evidence yet to suggest that this link has weakened over time. the ecb is fully aware that monetary developments may be subject to portfolio shifts in the short term, which are not directly related to future spending decisions. indeed, what matters is to identify and understand the underlying reasons for monetary developments in order to assess the implications for the risks to price stability over the medium term. in this respect, the analysis of monetary developments has provided useful guidance to the ecb's monetary policy also over the past year. this then leads me to another point mentioned in the draft resolution, namely the importance for a central bank to take account of asset prices when assessing risks to price stability, while not introducing moral hazard in financial markets through inappropriate reactions to excessive asset price developments. the ecb fully shares this view. it closely monitors asset price developments as indicators for monetary policy but it does not target them or react to them mechanically. as regards the proposed endorsement of macroeconomic projections by the governing council of the ecb, allow me to clarify once again the role of those projections in the process of monetary policy-making at the ecb. these projections play an important role for us, but they have by no means an all-encompassing role. they are an important technical input by ecb and national central bank staff in summarising and assessing the implications of a large body of information for future inflation in a consistent way. however, we are also fully aware of the difficulties of making projections. in particular, we recognise that it is impossible to summarise all the relevant information for assessing the maintenance of price stability in one single projection. given the difficulties of forecasting over the longer term and the uncertainty regarding the appropriate economic model, we do not advocate the use of a single projection to analyse the risks to price stability. we therefore explicitly look at many other indicators and analyses in the context of our two-pillar strategy, and we do not try to hide the complexity of monetary policy-making behind the production of a single governing council forecast. the projections reflect the expert judgement of eurosystem staff and we prefer to keep this distinct from the judgement of the governing council regarding the overall assessment of the risks to price stability. therefore, our decision to clearly separate the production of the projections from the analysis of the governing council is fully transparent as it honestly reflects the decision-making process within the ecb. as regards communication, we have always taken an approach that ensures a high level of transparency and clarity of our message. our monthly press conferences are key in this respect. the timeliness and the detail of our communication are without comparison. at the same time, we have not changed our view regarding the publication of minutes. we fear that, given the multi-country context in which the governing council works, published minutes – or a procedure in which dissenting views of council members are published (even without mentioning names) – could lead to undue pressure on national central bank governors to deviate from a euro area perspective. this cannot be in the interest of the euro area, no more than if the governing council were to end its approach of speaking with one voice. the draft resolution also suggests that the balance of votes within the governing council should be published anonymously. as i stated in my last testimony, i have some doubts whether this would give more clarity to the markets or more transparency than is the case now. in any event, i believe it is crucial that we continue to place the emphasis of our communication on the economic rationale behind monetary policy decisions, rather than on a pattern of differing views in the governing council. to conclude my statement, i should like to briefly refer again to the euro cash changeover. with a single currency, our citizens now have a common symbol of european identity which they use in their daily lives. indeed, the euro has created the foundations that may stimulate further integration – in the political, economic and financial fields. in this sense, "the euro, our money" can provide a new and more solid basis on which to build an "ever closer union". (applause)
- thank you very much , mr. president duisenberg . you also have fans in the public gallery, but unfortunately they can't applaud. members of the european parliament have the right to do so.
mr president, the group of the party of european socialists supports the rapporteur's report. it is right that the european central bank should be congratulated on this year's presentation, in particular because it has been able to highlight within the euro area the importance of the euro as a response to external shocks, but also because the introduction of euro cash has been so successful. we are registering that not all citizens are satisfied with the new money. but at least europe has shown that it can do something when it stands together. 64% of all citizens feel at last a little more european, according to a survey carried out with the euro in their pocket. that's the way it should be! the price sentiment of the citizens is not as it should be, because the real, statistically detectable and extremely low rate of price increase in the euro countries does not correspond to the perceived inflation. it was therefore right that this european parliament has always insisted on an information campaign, that it has always insisted on seeing the introduction of the euro not only as a technical change but also as a change of great psychological importance. it is therefore important that we also set positive signs. the fact that consumers have been enjoying the benefits of monetary union since yesterday when they use their cards to withdraw money is very important. for example, other benefits will become apparent now during the holiday season. this is certainly due to the efforts of this european parliament. let me turn briefly to the concern about the appreciation of the euro. a slow curve in relation to the approximation to dollar-euro parity is certainly desirable. but she's not gonna let me control her. it cannot be overstated that the fall in import prices in this phase of weak recovery in the euro area creates a favourable environment for an expansionary monetary policy and in any case does not require any decisions to change interest rates in one direction. the union depends on it to keep the lisbon process moving. the european central bank has a great responsibility. it is to be hoped that the coordination of economic policies will finally create a positive environment for all the actors. the development of monetary aggregates has not been so positive recently. but there is also a positive element in it, because it is an expression of recovery, because it is a sign that businesses are borrowing for investment in future economic growth, which is vital for europe. i think that even greater transparency in the european monetary union would be important. i am very much in favour of the european central bank being open to parliament's arguments that we all want to know the reasons behind monetary policy decisions. this is also good for the credibility and trustworthiness of the european central bank. the european central bank also has a role to play in contributing to financial stability. i am very much counting on the european central bank to continue to call for financial stability and, unlike the american federal reserve, not yet to support the formation of speculative bubbles in monetary policy. the ecb must not allow any further moral hazard to be created by its own behaviour!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the ecb report criticises the fact that most euro area countries failed to meet their budgetary targets in 2001. germany, france, italy and portugal again recorded relatively large deficits. it is warned that deficit rates could continue to rise. in other words, fiscal consolidation, the second primary objective of european economic policy, alongside the maintenance of price stability, is at risk. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. unfortunately, this issue is not sufficiently addressed in the parliament's report. unlike mr karas, i believe that the stability and growth pact is rightly controversial. i think it is in a serious crisis because it is too inflexible because of its arbitrarily fixed 3% mark. in times of stagnation and recession, its shackles prove to be poison for economic revival. it is not by chance that the euro-zone finance ministers have already called on the commission to take greater account of cyclical fluctuations in the assessment of the budgetary position of the member states. i therefore strongly advocate the reform of the stability pact and its addition to an employment pact, which requires a comprehensive coordination of the economic policies of the member states. the stability pact is not, as we heard from france, which is now governed by a conservative government, carved in marble. the aim must be to create rapid scope for an anti-cyclical economic policy. of course, debt limitation should not be lost sight of. nor can countries enrich themselves at the expense of others by running up their debts without being punished by higher interest rates. but on the other hand, stability policy must not be limited to monetary value, and above all it must not damage the social balance of society.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. that was not the position of the committee on the environment, and unfortunately mr trakatellis did not follow the custom of presenting the report of the committee on the environment, but unfortunately he expressed his own position. i am very angry and regretful about this, but i ask you as president to ensure that the rapporteurs reflect the committee's views in future. if they cannot do so, they should follow the custom of returning the report rather than presenting their personal opinion as the committee's position. (applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs and the internal market. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the committee on the environment has adopted a number of amendments tabled by the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, and that is a good thing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that such clarifications are welcome in any case. secondly, it is a question of the coherence of the legislation, and it should be avoided at all costs that the compromises made in the past, with difficulty, in the novel food regulation and the release directive, are undermined by new regulations which are now being put on the table. thirdly, there is the legitimate right of citizens to access information. the consumer can only be a mature consumer if we continue to offer him transparency and openness. we talk a lot about freedom, transparency and solidarity in this parliament. let us put our words into action so that citizens can freely choose what they want to consume and who they want to become shopkeepers by enforcing clear labelling of products. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. after very different proposals were presented to the committee, these amendments were withdrawn, with the explanation that the environment committee has the better overview of this issue, but i do not want to hide the fact that i still think a threshold of 0.1% is quite desirable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. why do you need genetically modified plants? by changing fewer building blocks of genetic material, a plant is better adapted to adverse environmental influences, such as pest infestation or weed competition. it's inherently more resilient. the use of herbicides and insecticides can be greatly reduced. the environment is relieved. in quality and nutritional value, these genetically modified foods are no different from conventional foods. this is confirmed by extensive testing. the commission's proposals on traceability and labelling are widely divided in parliament. we know that. we agree on one point: the proposals have had little success. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. despite these shortcomings, we do not want to reject the commission's proposals, because any further delay would be toxic to the status of genetically modified products within the eu. the de facto moratorium, which has been in place for some years, would continue. the two commission proposals aim to ensure that consumers are given clear and truthful information on genetically modified organisms in food and feed. i am of course in favour of full consumer information without any restrictions. that's for sure! but such information can only be obtained by labelling products as containing gmos which actually do contain gmos. scientific detection by means of genetically modified dna or proteins, or perhaps in the future by other new analytical methods, is a top priority. such product-specific labelling is the only viable option. the commission proposal is going in the wrong direction here. the so-called process-based labelling of food and feed, independent of the detectability of the genetic modification in the final product, is simply not feasible, it is an invitation to fraud. the consequence would be that europe would be overwhelmed by a wave of alleged scandals, and consumer confidence in our high-quality foodstuffs would be further shaken. for the same reason, the extension of the labelling obligation to animal products such as meat, eggs and milk products derived from animals which have been in contact with genetically modified feed should be rejected. such a labelling obligation would be just as abstract as that for food produced using genetically engineered or modified ingredients, such as enzymes, because in both cases there is no genetic modification in the food itself. there is no difference from conventional products. the same is true of highly refined products such as cooking oils and sugar. there is no evidence of any genetic modification in the product. so why label? such a procedure of labelling every product that the gmo has really seen would be contrary to the idea of consumer education or information. almost all foodstuffs would have to be labelled 'produced using or from gmos'. another key issue is the threshold for the accidental or technically unavoidable presence of gmos in products. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, against the vote of the epp group, has reduced the threshold for the accidental and technically unavoidable presence of gmos from 1% in the commission proposal to 0.5%. we agree that this threshold is purely a political value and has no scientific basis. but as a political dimension, this value must be guided by what is practicable, what is feasible. the feasibility threshold is, however, already more than reached with a lower limit of 1%. a threshold of 0.5% is simply not possible at the moment. it would be a prevention value, a prevention threshold. the commission proposal was, however, extremely unfortunate in its wording on this point, and i must say this too. of course, there is some unease when we talk about gmos that are not authorised in the eu. it's associated with something like helpless abandonment. in essence, this threshold is a necessary tolerance level, especially in the transitional period, for gmos which have not yet been authorised under the de facto moratorium but have already been examined by the relevant scientific committees in the eu and found not to be a danger to human health and the environment. they're ready for admission, they're in the queue. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the vote tomorrow will be the test of the european parliament as to whether we are creating more transparency for consumers or whether we are bending to industrial interests and continuing to secretly promote genetically modified food to the consumer. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the labelling of genetically modified organisms is not restricted to the same areas. the failure to provide traceability and transparency would be a violation of consumer rights. i therefore appeal in particular to the epp group to abandon its blockade and finally take the side of consumers and not continue to try to disempower them. it is totally unacceptable that the cold-pressed oil or the tomato, since there is evidence, should be labelled, and the same oil, once it has been heated, or the same tomato, once it has been processed into ketchup, should not be labelled. we need comprehensive labelling because consumers have a right to know what they are eating. the market, that is, the consumers, should decide. we must really see them as mature consumers and we must not under any circumstances deprive them of their rights. we also know that since the bse scandal at the latest, consumers want to know how and what animals are fed. we are, of course, quite clearly against a threshold for unauthorized genetically modified food, because that would really make the commission's objective of ensuring greater food safety absurd. only what is expressly authorised may be placed on the market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the 1% figure for approved products also seems to us to be far too high and far too arbitrary. this would mean that on an average shipment of non-gmo soybeans, over 3 000 tonnes of gm soybeans could still be intermixed. the commission must also finally put forward more safety measures to prevent pollution, because we really need more labelling and consumer safety.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. traceability of food from the field to the counter is a must. in parallel, there must be a voluntary way for producers to ensure transparent quality assurance, guaranteeing a high level of safety to millions of consumers. unfortunately, the approaches adopted by the member states are still too different and too confusing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the labelling of products is not misused. consumers are demanding natural food and are opposed to the use of any technology in food production. the labelling and traceability do not automatically guarantee safety. the greatest risk is in the authorization procedures for genetically modified organisms in the community food chain, when these are in conflict with the general product standards of the wto framework. the commission's work on cap reform is intensifying day by day. the proposed changes are a provocation to the member states' right of co-determination and to their associations of interests. in addition, agriculture is being transformed into a kind of employment society, with management and control systems becoming more important than good professional practice. the new edition of the degression of size is a political mistake and therefore unacceptable. this report looks far into the future. that is what a reform should be able to claim.
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has been working. i would like to say the following on the question put by mr posselt: the commission is not aware that the czech republic has requested a derogation from the community acquis on food law for 'utopenec' sausages. the commission therefore considers that the manufacturing and marketing practices of 'utopenec' are in conformity with community food safety rules or will be in conformity with community food safety rules at least from the date of accession. the czech republic has also not received any specific request for registration of traditional or local products for 'utopenec' during the negotiations, although such requests have been made for other products. however, the czech republic has indicated its intention to submit further applications for registration after accession, if appropriate. as regards sliwowitz, its manufacturing processes are not in accordance with the community definition of fruit spirits as laid down in article 1 (4) of regulation no 15/76, since ethyl alcohol, that is to say industrial alcohol, is added to sliwowitz. under that regulation, a drink to which ethyl alcohol is added may not bear the generic name 'brandy' in any form. the community therefore considers that a permanent derogation from the definition of fruit brandy for the czech sliwowitz is not acceptable. it would be possible to continue to use the name sliwowitz for this czech spirit but to call it either spirit rather than fruit brandy or to change the production process so that it complies with the rules for fruit brandy.
i am grateful to the commissioner for that very precise answer. the issue plays a major role in czech domestic politics and is a strong focus of eurosceptic forces. so thank you for the clarification on sliwowitz, which i must say is one of the best in the world. as for the utopenec, i'll look into it. i just want to point out that this is obviously a hygiene regulation. i would ask you to look into the matter further and, above all, to inform me from time to time of the specialties for which derogations have been requested.
the commission has already done so. mr trakatellis and mrs scheele have presented a comprehensive body of work which is clearly intended to contribute to improving information and transparency and to the freedom of choice of european consumers. the health of humans and animals is a priority. the most important criterion, however, must be that these legal frameworks are practicable. in particular, they must be in line with wto rules and must not hinder the development of biotechnology in europe by overbureaucratizing. firstly, we need a practical regulation on the accidental and technically unavoidable presence of gmos in non-genetically modified products. the 1% threshold proposed in the commission proposal is reasonable and realistic and a guide for producers and consumers. the threshold value is important for the coexistence of different cultivation forms, since in nature, for example, pollen flight can never be technically excluded. the second important point is that only products containing scientifically proven gmos are labelled, whereas labelling ingredients isolated from genetically modified plants is not meaningful, as gmos are no longer present in the final product, for example in oils, sugars and flavour enhancers. the labelling of meat, eggs and milk from animals that have been fed with gm feed should also be rejected, as it is misleading to the consumer. i am in favour of product-oriented labelling and i am expressly opposed to process-oriented labelling which cannot be controlled for technical reasons. labelling should only take place where it is possible to prove and thus control the labelling requirements.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the reports by mr trakatellis and mrs scheele are closely linked. a great deal has been said about this in this debate today. the public opinion in europe is largely opposed to the use of modern biotechnology outside laboratories. however, there are several aspects to this. studies show that most people feel too uninformed to make a clear judgment. some 86% of respondents in the european union said they would like to know more before consuming gmo food. the researchers conclude from their findings that food produced genetically in europe has a market if it offers clear benefits. the main emphasis should be on the freedom of choice for consumers. consumers want to be able to choose freely between gmo products and conventional products. we have already had a very heated debate today on the new labelling directives. in my view, labelling should only be carried out where it is possible to verify and thus control the labelling requirements. if genetic modification cannot be detected in the product itself, as is the case for example with meat, milk or eggs from animals fed genetically modified food, i am opposed to this demand. and what's very important to me is the incalculable liability risks for companies, and i don't want to say the word. it is therefore essential that practicable limits be set. that is why i am in favour of a uniform 1% limit. the commission's working document points out that zero tolerance is not feasible in practice, and many of my colleagues have already repeatedly mentioned the imponderables we have in nature. i do not want to add anything new to that.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. if genetically modified organisms were dangerous, they should be banned immediately. we agree, and we would do it immediately. today it is about labelling, about traceability. the consumer's right to information and freedom of choice is paramount, and we are all committed to this. the consumer should be able to decide for himself what he brings to the table, and for that we need labelling. within the union, a number of genetically modified organisms have already been evaluated by the scientific committees and found to pose no risk to health or the environment. however, information is also particularly important when it comes to the food sector, and we think that we will also find a better acceptance of the application of genetic engineering here. the commission proposes to introduce a maximum of 1% for the labelling of gmos. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. we must keep in mind the practicability and implementation of the regulations in all that we ask for. the question arises whether accidental contamination can be avoided at all. the reality is that zero tolerance is almost never guaranteed. and a particularly problematic one - and i repeat what the honourable members have just said - is the demand that all meat products, eggs and milk from animals that have been fed gmos or food that has been fed gmos. if the final product contains neither dna nor genetically modified protein, it cannot be that gmos still have to be labelled. it can only be what's on it, after all. what farmer, whose animals are out in the open, can guarantee that they will not ingest gmos that are spread by the wind? this fact, and also low levels in the feed, would then mean that all meat would ultimately have to be labelled as gmo. and this is an unacceptable situation for europe's farmers and consumers alike. for consumers, because they had to process meaningless information, and for farmers, this meant a technically insoluble problem. it is also unacceptable because farmers are not ultimately responsible for the introduction and spread of gmos.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. sexual and reproductive health and rights is a subject which we must treat with the greatest sensitivity in the european context. the eu must take account of the diversity of cultures, religions and traditions and must give priority to ethical considerations. the european union has no competence in the area of abortion legislation and the design of health systems. this is a matter for the member states. the principle of subsidiarity must be fully applied in this sensitive area and must not be ignored. reproductive health is also a matter for the member states. the eu's role is to develop guidelines carefully and to promote cooperation between member states. the present report is limited to other topics not mentioned in the title. the term 'emergency prevention' is therefore completely misleading. clearly, this is the morning-after pill, and it is clearly not a form of contraception but simply a premature abortion. the related demand to promote abortion and the abortion pill as a standard practice in the eu and in the candidate countries without formality is unacceptable. the epp is also clearly opposed to the legalisation of abortion. we have also enshrined in the constitutions of many european countries the right to the protection of unborn life by the state. no one has the right to decide about the life of a third. to demand otherwise is contrary to the spirit of our humanistic culture. the report does not take account of the necessary conditions for effective prevention, and it does not mention the mutual responsibility of the relationship and the indispensable role of parents and family in education, two crucial elements in the prevention of unwanted pregnancies. with this report we are sending a misleading signal not only to the member states of the eu, and in particular to ireland, but also to the candidate countries. i have received many letters and calls - as have all of you - from concerned organisations and individuals in the candidate countries. the people there have long suffered under undemocratic regimes that have arbitrarily controlled all aspects of life, even the most intimate. this is one reason why the present report not only worries the people of the countries of central and eastern europe, but also raises fears and fosters mistrust of the european union. it makes fundamental demands on the governments of the applicant countries, while they are not involved in any way in the decision-making process. that is contrary to our democratic understanding. the charter of fundamental rights commits us to the dignity of the human person and the protection of life. subsidiarity and the preservation of cultural diversity are among the principles of the european union. we must not forget this when we vote on this report tomorrow. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank first of all mrs anne van lancker, who has worked very hard to achieve consensus in this house. it is a very sensitive area - as has already been said - which affects the most intimate sphere of citizens. what is the final point of this report? it's about the right that no one in this house would let take away. it's about the right to control your own body. we cannot deny this to women, we cannot deny it to the less privileged in the european union, we cannot deny it to the citizens who will be coming to the european union. the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities has unquestionably recognised the primary responsibility of member states to ensure sexual and reproductive health and rights. but europe also has a great responsibility, as we have said in beijing at the world conference on women, as a champion of the world. we defended the notion at the time that sexual health, reproductive rights must be safeguarded. mrs van lancker has followed these guidelines very concretely and has presented a whole range of best practices in the report. the most important thing is and remains a good education in responsible sexuality. you have to be guided by expertise. we need professional counselling centres throughout the country, and the member states must ensure that this is the case. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. it is necessary to ensure in the member states that young women who become pregnant are not excluded from education. unfortunately, this is still largely a reality. we have some information in the white paper on youth. we must offer a networked policy here, and that is why the european parliament and the commission must also take action here. we must look more closely at the situation in the applicant countries; there are few affordable contraceptives, and abortion is often used as a means of family planning. as the van lancker report makes very clear, we must prevent this! abortion can never be the answer, but the unwanted pregnancy itself must be prevented. the background is probably to keep women in dependence, and i am very appalled by this action, which has been attacked here in parliament again: with a half-truth, with questionable means, millions of women are being made to believe that abortion would increase the risk of breast cancer. half-truths are used to discourage millions of women and to deny them their rights. we cannot afford to do that any longer, and that is why i hope that we will have a large majority for mrs van lancker's report tomorrow. (applause from the centre)
the committee on budgets the commission is not the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's public money, taxpayers fund research. projects are put out to tender, applications are submitted, and eventually the grant is granted - or not. what was important to us? first of all, the call for tenders must be clear, unambiguous and simple. that it is possible to write clear, unambiguous and simple proposals. that is why we have advocated a two-stage procedure which has proved successful in the past. the commission has accepted our request. secondly, it is of course important that we can make a rapid assessment, that we do not sit around waiting for so long: will this project be accepted or not? it was important for us as a parliament that, in addition to the obvious criteria of excellence and innovation, soft criteria were also taken into account. i am thinking, for example - and many ladies have just left here - of the participation of women in research. it is also important that a european added value is financed. in other words, the aim is to get more out of working together than out of individual research. working together means solidarity between the members of this group. it also means solidarity in liability should - which of course nobody expects - something go wrong. but here again, solidarity should not go so far as to create, as the commission had proposed, joint liability for all participants. this has now been successfully implemented. shared liability within certain limits - yes. we have managed to find a good middle ground between the necessary solidarity and the responsibility of the individual. the cash flow should be flexible, but also verifiable. and the money is to be spent on purpose. i would like to take just one example: flat-rate payments if necessary. but only if they are based on actual additional costs from european research and if they can be substantiated, even if the evidence is presented only afterwards. in other words, networks of excellence, a common european research area, yes, but not in the form of any kind of cooperation which is not really measurable. we have succeeded in developing the commission proposal in the direction you have indicated. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission proposal gave us the impression - and i say quite deliberately 'gave us the impression' - that we had a long discussion about it and that we had reached a different agreement, namely that the commission wanted to back down a little bit. that she just wanted to say there's a project manager who gets paid and is responsible for everything. that's not possible. we cannot relieve our executive from its responsibility. it is responsible for the sums it authorises and is the only body directly responsible to the european court of auditors. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. i should like to say a few words about the procedure, because it is quite unusual. the first report is a report on full co-decision, and the report on euratom is only a consultative report. but let us stick to the first report and the codecision procedure. it is a matter of codecision, and we shall succeed in adopting a text after only one reading. why would you do that? we have had excellent cooperation with the council and i would like to mention secretary of state marimón specifically. he has made a very great personal effort to ensure that we have reached an agreement through dialogue. i must also say, however, that i have noticed a very high level of willingness to dialogue within the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this matter, but i am saying that it should be involved in the matter. the fact that such an agreement has been reached after a first reading is only possible thanks to the cooperation of all, for which i would like to thank you very much. i would also like to thank all my colleagues from the other groups. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the debate on the future of the european union, and i am pleased to say that the commission has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to participate in the debate on the future of the european union. i wish all the participants in the sixth framework programme these qualities - flexibility, innovative working methods - and i wish them to the commission, which will of course now take over its work of distributing the money. we shall be following them in this work over the next few years with a critical but also sympathetic eye.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to say, following your words, good morning. it is also possible that this is a sign of the new start we are planning to make with the sixth research framework programme. i would also like to thank the rapporteur. i am not saying this out of politeness, because i think we have worked well together and have largely followed the rapporteur's instructions. i would like to thank you again for this initiative. as regards the rules on participation, i must say that we have given the commission a great responsibility and we are asking a great deal of it. i do not envy the commission, because it will be very difficult to implement the sixth framework programme if, for example, i decide that the commission will give reasons for any decision rejecting a proposal. this is an old request from us, but with so many tens of thousands of projects, it is an enormous responsibility for the commission. if it does, i must say: hats off, because this will certainly help to keep the enthusiasm of many people to participate in the european research programme. but it won't be easy. the great difficulty with this sixth framework programme is that so many member states are participating. 15 member states plus the countries that want to join the european union, plus the countries of the european economic area plus israel and in the future switzerland. this means that there are a lot of participants and it will not be easy to 'manage' them, i.e. to implement the research framework programme correctly. i also understand the desire to create the largest possible projects, networks of excellence, integrated projects, etc., and i think that will be the future of the european research programme. however, this means that the others, especially the smaller projects, will have to be taken over more and more by the member states and the regions, which means that this will lead to a greater division of labour between the european union and the member states. i am very pleased that the question of the two-stage procedure has been clarified. i expect this two-step procedure to be a relief, depending on how it is implemented. the commission has some experience in this area. i hope she can improve that. the sooner we implement the sixth research framework programme, the more money we will save. parliament has done its part, there is a consensus on this. now it's about spending the money as quickly as possible. i wish you every success in that, commissioner.
- mr president, i have to go. a delegation from the democratically elected taiwanese parliament was here in strasbourg yesterday at the invitation of members of the european parliament. you, mr president, have given this delegation the honour of receiving them and speaking to them. but something happened during that visit that i think embarrassed me and several colleagues here. our guests had to leave in a hurry last night because the french authorities had only granted them a visa for 24 hours. all attempts by meps to extend this visa or to obtain it for a longer period of time have failed because of the stubbornness of the french authorities. i have two questions for you, mr president. firstly, do you consider that this refusal of a visa for what i believe are purely political reasons is compatible with the values of the european union, which considers freedom, including the freedom of movement of all people, to be a fundamental right? secondly, do you, like myself and other members of this house, regard this event as a serious hindrance and a hindrance to the work of the european parliament in strasbourg? if so, what are you going to do about it? (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. i would like to raise a point concerning the equipment of the parliament buildings here, and this is also a question i often hear from my visitor groups. we in this parliament are rightly very proud that we can all speak, hear and read in our mother tongues. but many of my visitors ask me why all the signs, all the information and all the electronic advertisements in parliament are in one language. i think it is a matter of course whether we can all find ourselves here, also in the visual representation of this parliament. finally, we are now speaking 11 languages here, and i think there are already technical possibilities to ensure that there are appropriate facilities here in this parliament. 90% of my visitor groups do not speak french, and if you look at the evacuation plans that are attached to each "totem pole", or as it is called here, they are only in french. the contingency plans in case anything happens here are in one language only. i do not think that is appropriate for the european parliament. i would therefore ask you to instruct our services to draw up a plan for how we can give visual expression to the multilingualism of which we are rightly proud in this parliament. (applause from the centre)
the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me to speak here today for the first time in the european parliament. it is with particular pleasure that i do so as president of the european council, in order to present the priorities of the danish presidency of the european union. i look forward to the debate that will follow on the tasks ahead. the european parliament is an important and constructive force in the development of european cooperation, and i am sure that this will continue to be the case in the coming months, when we are faced with a number of decisions of crucial importance for the future of the european union. the danish presidency is therefore keen to work closely with the european parliament. the danish presidency wants to strengthen cooperation between the eu institutions. i know that the european parliament shares this wish. we will seek to promote contacts and cooperation between the institutions. we intend to hold summits between parliament, the commission and the presidency before the european council meetings in brussels and copenhagen. we are faced with important decisions in the context of codecision. the presidency will demonstrate efficiency and flexibility and looks forward to fruitful cooperation. we have to adopt a new budget. here too the presidency is looking for constructive and result-oriented negotiations. denmark attaches great importance to the work of the european parliament and the presidency will be well represented at all plenary sessions. a key role in this will be played by the minister for european affairs, bertel haarder, a former member of the european parliament. (applause from the centre) but a number of other danish ministers will also take part in plenary debates in the coming months. i myself will brief parliament after the european council in brussels and report to the presidency at the end of the copenhagen summit. i will also be taking part in the great debate on enlargement on 19 november. we have given our presidency programme the title 'one europe'. we are thus underlining the importance we attach to enlargement and wider cooperation on our continent. the programme contains a detailed statement of our objectives and plans in each area. today i want to concentrate on the main themes. the main headlines of the programme are: firstly, the enlargement of the european union - from copenhagen to copenhagen. we are to decide on enlargement of the european union at the copenhagen summit in december. secondly, freedom, security and justice - we must step up the fight against terrorism, crime and illegal immigration. thirdly, sustainable development - economic, social and environmental. we will work to ensure that economic growth goes hand in hand with environmental protection and the improvement of employment. fourthly, food safety. we will work for better food security, review the agricultural policy and renew the common fisheries policy. fifthly, the global responsibility of the european union. we must strengthen the common foreign and security policy, build stronger links between europe and the united states and work towards a global agreement between the rich and poor countries of the world. the seville european council adopted a number of decisions on the framework for the council's work in the light of enlargement. i welcome these decisions. we will try to implement them as far as possible under the danish presidency. this is particularly true of the decisions on greater openness in the council's work. on the whole, it is our ambition to ensure the greatest possible degree of openness about the whole of the work of the danish presidency. the enlargement of the european union is the main task of the danish presidency. i shall deal with this important subject in detail later in my speech, but first i will comment on the other items on the presidency's agenda. in addition to enlargement, the danish presidency is placing great importance on raising the important european agenda that is before us. we will focus on four areas in particular: first, we will work for greater freedom, security and justice. the danish presidency will give high priority to the fight against crossborder crime and to the implementation of the eu action plan to combat terrorism, and we will focus on developing strong international cooperation - not least with the united states. the presidency will also follow up on the conclusions of the seville european council on asylum, immigration and border controls. a number of forward-looking, concrete and balanced decisions were taken here, which form a good basis for the work of the danish presidency. secondly, the danish presidency will work for sustainable development. this is true economically, socially and environmentally. we will give priority to the completion of the internal market and the development of economic cooperation between the member states. a strong and competitive european economy is the prerequisite for growth, prosperity, increased employment and sustainable development. we must be able to keep up with the global competition - not least in relation to the united states. the danish presidency will then focus on food. we will work for safe food. food security - from farm to fork - is a very important task for the eu. under the danish presidency we will seek to make concrete progress in this area. the debate on the reform of the common agricultural policy will also be launched under the danish presidency. we will give this work a high priority and seek to take it as far as possible. but i would like to stress that this is a discussion which must take place independently of the negotiations on enlargement of the european union. we will not accept the creation of new conditions for enlargement. finally, the presidency will give priority to the work on a new common fisheries policy for the eu countries. it is a vast and difficult task. the commission's proposal provides a good and serious basis for further work. the eu's global responsibility is the last major theme of the danish presidency. the eu has a special responsibility for peace and stability in an increasingly interconnected world. this is particularly true in the fight against international terrorism and in efforts to reduce poverty in the world. the development of the common security and defence policy (esdp) will also continue over the next six months. as a consequence of the danish reservation on defence, the work on the military aspects of cooperation will be led by greece and i would like to stress that we will help to ensure smooth and effective cooperation between the two presidencies on this point. the danish presidency will be marked by a series of important international summits. the eu will and must play a central role at the world summit on sustainable development in johannesburg. we will work within the framework established at the seville summit. the danish presidency intends to ensure the most ambitious result possible. the aim is a forward-looking global agreement, binding both rich and poor countries, a global agreement where rich countries give poor countries better development opportunities through free trade and increased development assistance. in return, developing countries must commit themselves to good governance, that is to say, democracy, respect for human rights, open and free access to information. the asem summit in copenhagen in september will further develop relations between asia and europe. we will also seek to strengthen relations with russia and the eu's new neighbours to the east - ukraine, belarus and moldova. a new policy towards these countries is needed. the specific situation surrounding kaliningrad must be resolved - on the basis of the schengen rules. it should be possible on this basis to reach a reasonable understanding with russia. there is to be an eu-russia summit in copenhagen in november and this summit will be an essential step in this whole process. let me return to the most important task facing the presidency in this six-month period, namely to conclude the negotiations on the enlargement of the union to include up to 10 new member states. it was in copenhagen in 1993 that the conditions for accession to the eu were defined, and it may now be in copenhagen in 2002 that the enlargement negotiations will be completed. from copenhagen to copenhagen. our aim is to conclude the negotiations with all the candidate countries that are ready by the end of the year. this will enable these countries to become members of the european union in 2004, that is, before the next european parliament elections. at the same time, we will make progress in the negotiations with those countries which will only be ready for membership at a later stage, and we will strengthen the link with the eu's new and old neighbours. i will follow three principles in the negotiations on enlargement of the european union: firstly, we must maintain the requirement that clear criteria must be met in order to become a member of the european union. i hope that will be the case for 10 countries, but i will not compromise on the principle. secondly, no country should wait for another. there are differences in the size of countries, but not in their rights or obligations. if only some - but not all 10 countries - are ready by december, then we must conclude the negotiations with those who are ready in copenhagen, and no country which is ready should wait for a country which is not ready. (applause from the centre) thirdly, we will maintain december 2002 as a decisive and binding deadline. experience shows that the eu is best placed to tackle one big task at a time. the next six months are allotted to enlargement. then new tasks come along. in 2003 we are to conclude the discussions on the convention on the future of the european union. in 2004 we have the intergovernmental conference and the european parliament elections, and in 2005 and 2006 we have to define the framework for the next budgetary period. i am not saying that it is now or never, but if we do not take the chance now, we risk a substantial delay in enlargement. we have a moral and historical obligation to achieve a good and positive outcome. (applause from the centre) but there's a line of rocks in the road. we'll have to clear them out. firstly, there is the question of financing. this is particularly true of the negotiations on agriculture, the structural funds and the budget. in my view, the commission has put forward a well-balanced and sensible proposal. several member states consider the proposal too expensive. at the same time, the applicant countries are saying that the proposal is inadequate. i think the commission has struck the right balance in its approach. at the seville summit we adopted an ambitious timetable. it means that the eu must be able to communicate to the applicant countries by the beginning of november at the latest a common position on the issue of direct income support for farmers. the danish presidency will maintain this ambitious timetable. the second key issue is the cyprus question. cyprus is doing well in the accession negotiations, it is one of the countries that has closed the most negotiating chapters - 28 out of 31 - and as an applicant country, cyprus has a right to be included when it is ready. but at the same time, the problem is that the island is still divided. the helsinki european council stated that a solution to this problem would be an advantage but not a condition for accession to the eu. however, it was stressed that a final decision would be taken on the basis of all relevant factors. the danish presidency will continue to work on this basis and i would like to stress that all those involved - on both sides - should do their utmost to find a solution as quickly as possible. thirdly, the irish referendum on the treaty of nice is an unknown factor. the approval of the treaty of nice is a prerequisite for the enlargement to be completed within the deadlines set. the negotiations shall be conducted on the basis of the provisions of the treaty of nice. a new 'no' in ireland will jeopardise the whole process. in this context, i welcome the declaration of irish neutrality at the seville summit. a clear and positive message has been sent from europe to the irish people. i will not conceal the fact that we are facing considerable challenges. but no one should doubt the determination, commitment and will of the danish presidency. a good starting point has been created. this is not least the result of the tireless work of the applicant countries and the commission over more than 10 years. but the danish presidency is also building on the achievements of previous presidencies, including the great progress made by the spanish presidency. ten years of negotiations, ten years of hard work that have borne fruit, ten years of expectations that we cannot afford to disappoint. we must live up to the promises we have made to each other, we must meet the deadlines we have set for ourselves. we must seize the historic opportunity we have been given. more than 40 years of communist rule in central and eastern europe meant an unfortunate and artificial division of europe. it is this dark chapter in the history of europe that we now have an opportunity to close. the time for toasts is over. we must follow our words with action. this is the time to fulfill our promises. (applause from the centre) 'one europe' is the title of the danish presidency. one europe for all our peoples. one europe as the framework for future cooperation for the benefit of all. a europe of freedom, peace and prosperity. the danish presidency will do its utmost to carry out this and the other tasks entrusted to us. we can't do this alone, we need all our partners. after the second world war, great european thinkers such as schuman, monet and spinelli created the vision of a europe without war, a europe united in cooperation. that dream has come true for us in western europe. the enlargement of the european union is the opportunity to extend the freedom, peace, stability and prosperity that we know to the countries of the east. we must approach this task in the spirit of the founders of european cooperation. we must not lose sight of the details, but must have the courage and the will to maintain the historic vision and the task that lies ahead of us. i appeal to everyone to see the enlargement of the european union in this historical perspective. i call on us to seize this historic opportunity to reunite the formerly divided europe. i call for close cooperation with the european parliament in carrying out the most important political task of our generation: welcoming the new democracies of eastern and central europe into the european union. thank you, mr president.
president of the commission. - mr president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, today is the last plenary session before the summer recess. the european council in seville has come to an end and this very important six months of the danish presidency has just begun. so i think this is a good time to take stock of the situation. among the activities that will accompany us in the second half of the year, three major processes stand out, closely linked to each other: the first is, as we heard from the danish prime minister, enlargement. as i said yesterday in this parliament, most of the outstanding issues have been resolved and the commission will indicate to the autumn european council which countries it considers ready for accession. at the same time, we will have to support the progress of the other candidate countries: our strategy is to carry this process forward in an organic way, without erecting any more barriers within the continent that we are trying to unify. at the present stage of the negotiations, and if there are no accidents on the way, it is likely that the commission will consider all ten countries in the first wave ready for accession. however, the criterion remains unchanged: no country is judged in general terms; each country is judged on its own merits. we will work decisively to conclude the accession negotiations in copenhagen. before that, however, an agreement must be reached within the present member states on the budgetary and direct payments to agricultural undertakings, even if the problems are not closely related. i would like to stress in this connection my conviction that the commission's proposal is the only possible basis for reaching such an agreement between the 15 member states of today and the 25 of tomorrow. i therefore call on all parties to commit themselves to reaching an agreement which will open the door to the reunification of the whole continent. in the meantime, we will update the roadmap and the preaccession strategy for bulgaria and romania. the seville council fully encourages and supports turkey's efforts to meet the priorities set out in its accession partnership. the periodic report on the state of progress and implementation of reforms by turkey, which the commission will publish in october, will be a key element in the decisions to be taken in copenhagen. the european council in copenhagen next december will therefore set the date in 2004 for the formal accession of the new member states and the signing of the accession treaty in march 2003. of course, the whole process depends on the ratification of the treaty of nice, on which the irish voters will have to decide in the autumn. i must therefore stress the importance of a positive outcome for the future of europe. the impetus for enlargement does not end with the signing of the accession treaty, but is only the beginning. from 2004 onwards, the union will have to prove itself capable of performing its functions to the full and of responding to the expectations of the european citizens, who will have reached over 450 million by then. the latest eurobarometer survey is clear: 67 per cent of respondents are in favour of the euro, up six points on the previous survey; the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which calls for the establishment of a european union with a constitution. the eurobarometer data also show that citizens expect our institutions to be as efficient as possible. and that's the second point i want to make with you today: institutional reforms. once ratified, the treaty of nice will introduce the institutional reforms necessary for enlargement. at the same time, however, we must take some fundamental decisions on the political nature and institutional architecture of the european union of the future. europe must be more present in three main areas: a stronger foreign policy and a stronger role on the international stage; closer cooperation between member states in the field of security and justice and in the fight against organised crime and illegal immigration; improved coordination of economic and financial policies. the debate on the future of europe currently taking place within the convention is all about these issues. however, enlargement is now at hand and we cannot wait idly for the ratification of a new treaty. how can the powers of the commissioners be allocated when the union is made up of 25 or more countries, that is, when the union will be made up of 25 or more countries, not now? how can the council ensure consistent and effective guidance? the danish presidency has been given the task of carrying forward the procedural reforms of the council decided upon in seville, and the commission is now committed to offering its full cooperation. the commission has also moved in this direction. as i said yesterday, i have already put forward similar ideas on how to reorganise the work of the college, and i want to reiterate that reforms to the permanent treaty must proceed in parallel in all the institutions. so when we are 25 member states, we will have to draw the logical consequences. we must be guided by one goal: we have to put the right men and women in the right places, and we have to think only about the overall interest of the system and its optimal performance. the objective is always to achieve a stronger and more democratic governance of the union. the third and final topic i want to deal with today is johannesburg and the world summit on sustainable development. the concept of sustainability is a recurring one in our thinking. we often talk about sustainability and long-term objectives for our environmental, economic and social policies, and i hope that the johannesburg summit will be a decisive step forward. i know that many of you will be attending this summit, and that is a good thing because the union is playing a leading role in trade, development aid, humanitarian aid and diplomatic relations. but we must not rest on the past and its achievements. we must build on the momentum of monterrey and doha, where the union played a key role, and we must face the difficult task of persuading our partners to do their part. we must commit ourselves to supporting the development of the global south in a concrete way, following the priorities set by the un secretary-general kofi annan: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to provide the commission with information on the implementation of the measures taken. we must not forget the socio-political aspects: the european union is committed to the development of democracy, good governance, political dialogue, social and economic reforms. finally, all the measures are geared to the following broad objectives: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i will say that the commission has already made a number of proposals. the growing income gaps between the north and south of the world are widening, especially in africa. we must reverse this trend and avoid building new walls and barriers of division worldwide. this is why we must do much more than we have done so far, by keeping to the commitments we have made and by acting in a more concerted and complementary way. the last g8 meeting in canada adopted an action plan for africa in support of the new partnership for the development of africa, nepad. we cannot simply participate in this initiative, but we must ensure that our contribution is commensurate with our role as africa's privileged partner and our historic responsibilities towards the continent. mr prime minister, the danish presidency can count on the active support of the commission and the newly established food safety agency in maintaining the very high standards for safe food for the citizens of the union which you mentioned in your speech. in the three major themes i have dealt with today - enlargement, institutional reform and sustainable development - the european union must be a model of democratic efficiency. let us not forget that we are the only example of democratic and supranational management of globalisation. the others talk about it; we're trying to make it happen. for this reason, the world expects us to make a very high contribution to the sustainability debate, and it has to be everyone's contribution: i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i would like to thank mr rasmussen and the whole team who have just taken over the presidency of the council, and our own team, the commission. i am glad, mr prime minister, that we have begun this cooperation in a loyal, strong, active but also friendly way, and i thank you for that. i also thank you, members, and since this is the last part-session before the holidays, i also wish you all a good holiday. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! mr president, you made a great speech. if you do this in the coming six months, it will also be an example that it is not only the big countries that can move europe forward, but a country like yours in particular, which is taking up its work with great ambition. i wish denmark and us all much success! (applause from the centre) you said from copenhagen to copenhagen, and you said one europe. i also felt a vision in your speech, because you take responsibility for the fact that we must now seize the opportunity to bring this europe back together. copenhagen 1993 meant human dignity, it meant the rule of law, it meant democracy, it meant the recognition of minorities, it meant the market economy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i very much agree with you that our aim must be to include ten countries: estonia, latvia, lithuania and poland, the czech republic, slovakia, hungary, slovenia and, of course, cyprus and malta. but it must also be clear that if a country does not meet these conditions, those who do cannot wait just because the others are not ready. i was very grateful to hear you say that there can be no new conditions. i ask you to resist any pressure from any country that new conditions are created on our side! (applause from the centre) i would like to say very clearly on behalf of our group that if the chancellor of the federal republic of germany, for electoral reasons, now links the agricultural question with enlargement, we shall reject that very strongly. i encourage you to do the same and to reject this with determination! (applause from the centre) we shall hear on 10 july from the commission, from commissioner fischler, the interim report on agricultural policy. then we'll discuss it. you yourself said that at a later date there would be an opportunity to make decisions on this. i would also like to remind you - and i encourage you, mr president of the council - that this parliament, by a large majority, has adopted the böge report on the financial implications of accession to the european union for agricultural policy, so that you have the support of the large majority of this house for the path you want to take. i would like to make a few remarks on turkey. the seville conclusions contain a remark on this. we support everything that promotes relations between turkey and the european union. but we do not think that the time has come for a date to be set for the start of the negotiations under the danish presidency. turkey needs to continue reforming. we should support them in this, but the time has not yet come to set a date for negotiations. i call on the turkish government to drop its reservations about the linking of forces, their tasks, the european union and nato. we must be able to act as europeans. turkey must make its contribution here. the danish presidency has spoken at length about openness and transparency. the nordic countries - finland, sweden and denmark in particular - are particularly exemplary in this respect. i would encourage you to implement what has now been decided in seville under your presidency. if, for example, the seville conclusions state that at the beginning and at the end of the legislative process in the council of ministers, things should be negotiated publicly, then you should define the beginning and the end of the negotiations as flexibly as possible, so that there is only a small period in the middle, where then the public might not be made. we need publicity, we need transparency. we need to have access to television so we can reach the people. the seville conclusions indicate that the interinstitutional agreement on better regulation will be concluded by the end of 2002. we expect to see results at the political level by the end of 2002. we also want to reach an agreement on the third pillar, namely internal affairs and justice, as we have done with the common foreign, security and defence policy, so that we can also achieve greater transparency in this area. mr president-in-office, i thank you very much for what you have said. i hope you can do it. i wish the danish presidency every success. you have the group of the european people's party and the european democrats on your side. i am confident that, with our esteemed old colleague bertel haarder sitting to your right, you will also be able to lead the danish presidency to a successful outcome. i hope that the danish presidency will be successful. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by commenting on what mrs riis-jørgensen said. i'm surprised mr prodi is a liberal now. i met him as a ulivo representative. i read the other day that he is sitting at the christian-democratic group's recess meeting. he's a liberal now. he is the president of the tricolore, so to speak, which we have here in the house. but maybe he'll tell us something else. i would like to say something to mr poettering. mr poettering is always very much in favour of lectures which others - mr aznar yesterday, mr rasmussen today - are supposed to give to the chancellor. why is it in the case? the point is that the german government, in the person of the chancellor, has asked the question - a correct question, i think - whether direct payments in their present form could not be an obstacle to enlargement if we do not reform the agricultural sector. there is a consensus on this, by the way. mr fischler will be presenting proposals in july to shift the direct payments under modulation to rural development. i wonder if mr poettering will then also come out and say: 'this is an obstacle to enlargement!' he will not do that, i can tell you that now, because then it will not be about the german election campaign. the only reason why poettering speaks in this way is that he wants to create a mood in the german election campaign. it's allowed. that is not a bad thing, in politics the election campaign is important, but it would be better, mr poettering, if you did not remember when the house discussed austria and when we discussed italy, as savonarola put it, and said: all interference in the internal affairs of member countries, and then, when it comes to their own country, to be here as at an election campaign in osnabrück. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! you spoke of the goals of your presidency and also touched on the middle east conflict. we have already discussed this with you in copenhagen in the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. my question is directed at the american initiative of the last few days. the american president is using a mechanism which the european union is successfully applying all over the world. it sets out specific objectives - for example, a three-year timetable. it defines criteria by which reforms are measured and it promises to support these reforms if the criteria are met. this is essentially our model for enlargement to the east, starting in copenhagen with the copenhagen criteria. this is our model in relations with the tacis countries, and, commissioner nielson, it is also our model in recent acp relations, where we have laid down concrete principles which may also entail sanctions. i would therefore ask the danish presidency: the commission is acting differently in the middle east. we are not setting any principles here, we have been paying our aid, even in lump sums, without conditions and without encouraging the reform efforts. do you see any chance that under the danish presidency of the council a new european initiative can be developed together with the united states on the basis of what president bush has called for three years a concrete perspective of a palestinian state, and that such an initiative could be supported by your presidency of the council?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to say a few words about mr schulz's speech. that wasn't a question, that was a campaign speech he made! (applause from the centre) i would just like to say that he has obviously become very nervous because of the opinion polls, and that is also a very excellent thing! i would like to ask a question, mr president-in-office, about the responsibilities of your presidency. in the field of defence, it is not denmark but greece that is responsible, and this has been the case since you took office. but there are some very important decisions to be made in the balkans, for example, on american participation there, on the question of the european union taking responsibility. the question is: how will you ensure coordination to ensure that the civil and military parts, which are basically inseparable from each other, are optimally coordinated? what role will the presidency play and what role will the commission play in this?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i have learned one thing from this debate between the group chairmen, the council presidencies and the commission: they all agree that there is only one priority for the next six months, and that is enlargement, enlargement, enlargement. and i have learned at the same time from it what i believe we have never had before, namely, complete agreement between the majority of this house, the commission and the council presidency on the procedure and timetable. we should really stand together in this, because only then will we be able to meet the historic task. i am also grateful for the fact that it is made clear, as we have in the resolution of parliament, that there must be no new conditions for enlargement, that it is made clear that we need a reform of the agricultural policy, but that this is not a new condition either. and if the mistakes of agenda 2000 are to be corrected now, this must not be at the expense of the applicant countries; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is also necessary to state very clearly that there is a differentiated approach. even now, with ten countries likely to make the leap, they must also be aware that each individual country still has to be assessed at the end of the day to see if it meets the conditions. so far, no one is safe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these are important issues to be examined in such a context and for this reason no one should feel too secure. mr president-in-office, i would encourage you to take the kaliningrad issue forward. but i would also like to make it clear that the solution to the kaliningrad question cannot be found through corridors for historical and pragmatic reasons. i believe that for the reasons i have mentioned, it is not up to the lithuanians or the poles to deny that there is a corridor through their country, and that for this reason we must certainly enforce the schengen criteria with some compromises, but also, of course, guarantee the credibility of the protection of the external borders within the framework of a europe which guarantees freedom of movement within the internal borders. but this is also a great opportunity to build a bridge to russia, and i think that is clear. we will be in a situation this autumn of having difficult talks with a country which is of extreme strategic importance to us, namely turkey. we must do everything possible to ensure that turkey remains part of this europe for these strategic reasons, but the price of a compromise on the question of the use of nato facilities for the esdp and the question of cypriot membership cannot be at the expense of strict compliance with the copenhagen criteria. (applause from the centre) i believe that this price cannot be paid, because then the credibility of the whole enlargement process for the future would be called into question. i know - and i cannot think of an answer at the moment - that it is an extremely difficult task for the presidency of the council and for the commission to deal with this problem. i believe, however, that we will seize this opportunity, that we will succeed and that, above all, we will make it clear that the unification of europe is not a reckoning with the past, but that the unification of europe is the method by which the past, which was so bad, will never return and that this represents a new beginning for this continent. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am glad to speak after mr brok, because i was delighted to hear his contribution. it is a factual and not polemical contribution, the first of its kind from the german section of the ppe group this morning. i have heard many times that mr haarder was a dear colleague. that can only refer to his private dealings. politically he was everything but a dear friend, for i had the pleasure of working with him for many years on the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs. if what mr haarder has been advocating there for years as a line of danish liberalism becomes the reality of the european union's asylum and immigration policy, then it will have little to do with kindness and much to do with hardness! i'll tell you what, mr. rasmussen. as president of the council, you cannot ask the european parliament not to deal with the internal politics of the member states, especially when the president-in-office of the council is pursuing in his country a policy on an issue which the seville council has declared to be a priority for the european union, namely asylum and immigration, a policy which he himself says should become the model for the european union. of course we will deal with danish domestic policy! the most important speech for you was that of mr camre. mr camre is the representative of pia kjæersgaard's party, the danish people's party, on whose thread your government is hanging. what this party says is very close to what mr gollnisch has been advocating here. i would ask you to consider whether the aim of the presidency of the council could be to adopt a policy which would have the full support of the front national. the fact is, what you're saying at the embassy has nothing to do with tolerance and orderly immigration, but a lot to do with sealed borders and the exclusion of minorities. we need a combination of two things in the european union: as long as there is no regular immigration, there is a flourishing of illegal immigration. (applause from the centre) that's why we have to regulate immigration. but to do that, you need to accept that there is immigration. but there can be no immigration at any price. the european union and the member states have the right to regulate immigration and asylum policy. in this respect, they must be committed to the principles of humanity. if you are referring to jean monnet, mr rasmussen, i must say that you should apply the monnet method. your government is one that monnet is very far away from, and spinelli, whom you referred to, was a communist politician in italy who was persecuted there. whether he would have been granted asylum under the conditions of your country must first be rigorously examined. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this report is not only an attack on the principle of subsidiarity and the complicated process of enlargement to the east, it is also contrary to the fundamental principles and founding principles of the european union. abortion is against children, against women, against humanity! the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of this disease, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take this opportunity to express his thanks to the rapporteur, mr van miert, for his report. it is therefore contrary to the basic principles as formulated by adenauer, schuman and de gasperi. the european union is a community of values, of principles, of values, of values, of values, of values, of values, of values, of values, of values, of values, of values, of values, of values, of values, of values, of values, of values, of values, of values, of values, of values, of values, of values, of values, of values, of values, of values, of values, of values, of values, of values, of values, of values, of values, of values, of values, of values, of values, of values, of values, of the people. i would like to say to all those who are criticizing parliament today: do not criticize parliament, but the narrow majority which passed this report, and make sure that the next parliament has a different majority!
in writing. - the van lancker report on sexual and reproductive health and rights was decisively rejected in the european parliament by the group of the european people's party and the european democrats, and i can only support this position. we cannot ignore the concerns of the national catholic and secular movements and their organizations in the applicant countries. the subject of this report is not within the political competence of the european union! the principle of subsidiarity requires that decisions on such matters be taken at national level. i am particularly concerned that the promotion of so-called emergency contraception, the morning-after pill, is being promoted as a standard practice. the proposal would thus be to legalise abortion in the member states and in the candidate countries. given the particular sensitivity of the subject, the adoption of the report will lead to negative reactions in the candidate countries to the enlargement process and will unnecessarily complicate this process. the report places considerable demands on the governments of the candidate countries, which have not been involved in any way in the decision-making process. i am firmly convinced that such a course of action is at the very least inappropriate if we are to foster confidence in the democratic nature of the decisionmaking process in the european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think it is becoming very clear that there is a large majority in this parliament for a very critical position on american policy in this area. i would like to expressly say that i am very pleased with the role played by the european union in the establishment of the statute and the work of the criminal court. but if it is to remain so, this attitude must be maintained consistently. mr president-in-office, i think that you have in some respects downplayed the problems, in particular by painting a too positive picture of transatlantic relations and also of european assertiveness vis-à-vis the united states. of course, that may be true about bananas, but if you look at the complexity of the developments of the last few months - the attacks on the c-weapons convention, the prevention of a biological weapons control organization, the withdrawal from the abm treaty, the threat to withdraw from the outer space treaty, the cancellation of the test ban treaty, the threat to the non-proliferation regime, the non-participation in the landmine convention, kyoto and there are others - it is clear that the disruptions are very large and that there are questions of principle involved. i think the question of the criminal court is in some ways even more fundamental. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i do not want to generalize - there are other examples in american history - but i agree with that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. jacques rousseau said of law: "between the weak and the strong, it is liberty that oppresses, and the law that liberates". a law that does not apply to the strongest is extremely problematic. i therefore expressly support the motion for a resolution on behalf of my group and would ask the house to support our amendment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner! the united states' withdrawal from the international criminal court and its announcement last sunday in the world security council that it would only continue to participate in un missions if its military was promised immunity, reinforces the impression that in certain areas the united states is more critical of the institutionalisation of international politics than the european union. after the war, it was the united states that helped to establish a world order by creating international institutions. moreover, international justice was the motto of the time. today it is the united states which, by withdrawing from international treaties, is calling into question the acceptance of internationally valid obligations and rights. i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner and president-in-office, and all of us, why this is so. there is a reason, and i have a document before me, from august 2000, entitled "implications for u.s. cooperation with the icc - the american service members' protection act of 2000". i wonder why we're having this discussion today. we have already instituted an early warning system a few years ago, but it does not seem to be working. it seems like there are regular conversations, but the methods of analysis seem to be different, we don't seem to listen, we don't seem to assess each other's problems in time, and we don't seem to get to the point where we really listen to each other. so what's the problem? i would ask you, and especially the president of the council, but also the commission, to ensure that the early warning system is operational in good time. i think that what mrs maes has suggested is excellent, and we should in fact point out at the next meetings we have with the americans that we need better systems so that they actually work. what i fear is not the transatlantic divide we are talking about, but a transatlantic clash, and i dare to call into question the much-vaunted values we are always talking about. i would urge you, mr president-in-office of the council and mr commissioner byrne, to take this point very seriously.
the council. - mr president, i have to say to my good friend and former colleague, mr dupuis, that it is unrealistic to put georgia on the list of possible candidate countries. i think we in the eu must consider alternatives to membership for our near and far neighbours to the east and south. for some european countries, membership is the obvious solution, for others it is totally unrealistic. we must be realistic in the expectations we place on the leaders of the countries with which we cooperate. i do not think it would be wise, at least at this stage, to raise any hopes of membership with either shevardnadze or other leaders of georgia.
i am not going to go into that. i too would like to congratulate you and us on your coming here as president of the council. my question also relates to georgia. you have rightly pointed out that the security situation in georgia depends on the security situation in the caucasus, and i would like to ask you what efforts the council is making to improve the security situation in the caucasus by resolving the chechen problem, in order to stabilise georgia as well. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a party to the conflict in chechnya, which is a country that has been in a state of war for decades.
the council. - mr president, i should like to thank mr posselt for the question. the council, like unama and other international observers, is generally satisfied with the outcome of the extraordinary meeting held in kabul in mid-june. on the whole, the loya jirga process has successfully fulfilled the objectives set out in the bonn agreement, namely to elect a head of state and to approve the structure of the transitional administration and its key figures. the main political forces in the country have supported this loya jirga and the popular support throughout the process has been unusually strong. this loya jirga was probably the most representative that this country has ever had. it was well-balanced ethnically and there were a significant number of women among the delegates. this is a remarkable achievement given the difficult security and political environment and the tight timetable, a partly displaced population and the lack of reliable infrastructure, including statistics. the council is also aware of the difficulties and problems which have existed in the period up to the loya jirga. in several cases, the election of delegates was marred by organizational problems, but also by attempts to harass, bribe, intimidate or kill candidates. however, these incidents were nevertheless rare and could not change the structure and timing of the process, nor could they undermine the legitimacy of the process. the council remains convinced that the extraordinary meeting has paved the way for further reconciliation between the peoples and that a stable political structure can now be established, which is essential for the further reconstruction of afghanistan. in this context, the council would stress once again that the eu reconstruction aid pledged in tokyo remains conditional on all afghan parties making a positive contribution to the process and the objectives set out in the bonn agreement. as regards further stabilisation of the country, the eu has confirmed its determination to support the reconstruction of afghanistan on many occasions since the start of the bonn process. member states will continue to deploy the majority of isaf forces in kabul. the community and its member states will continue to provide the reconstruction aid pledged at the international donor conference in tokyo in january this year. the community and its member states have committed eur 600 million this year alone and eur 2.3 billion in the following years until 2006. as one of the four chairmen of the steering group on the reconstruction of afghanistan, the eu will continue to play an active role in the reconstruction of the country. the eu will also continue to provide much-needed humanitarian assistance and thus remain by far the largest contributor to afghanistan. i would add that in seville the declaration mentioned that repatriation assistance should be provided to afghanistan, as requested by the unhcr. in recent months, several fast-acting projects have been implemented on the site and a growing number of medium and long-term reconstruction and development projects are under way. the eu will remain strongly committed to the necessary reform of the security sector, with several member states continuing to play a leading role in training the army, border guards, police forces, anti-drug forces, etc. several high-level visits by eu delegations have deepened political contacts with the afghan leadership. these contacts will continue, last but not least, they will also provide a good basis for a continued substantive dialogue with the afghan authorities and will also increase the visibility and profile of the eu in the country and help to channel future eu support to afghanistan. it is therefore important that the eu has a special representative in kabul, that member states open embassies and that the commission open a representation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very grateful for that precise answer, also on the women's question. i have to say, we're often unfair. the czech social democratic government - and it is after all a candidate country - has not yet a single woman in its ranks. i hope that changes now! but we require an archaic tribal society to change from one day to the next. i think we have to start with two things. that's what i want to ask you. firstly, the promotion of interethnic dialogue, because the loya jirga has left wounds in the pashtuns, not least because of the clumsiness of american representatives. secondly, we need to train young people at the local level. i would like to ask you specifically about institution building, whether the council could perhaps initiate something here, a programme of its own to help with institution building.
the council. - mr president, i would like to thank the many members who have asked these well-founded questions. the council would like to stress that the list of groups and entities contained in the annex to the council common position on the application of specific measures to combat terrorism is being reviewed regularly. the recent revision led to the inclusion of the pkk on the list. this was done after a careful assessment on the basis of the provisions of article 1 of the abovementioned common position. the council does not share the view that the inclusion of the pkk in the list will lead to increased repression of the kurdish population in turkey. attention should be drawn to the recent recommendation of the turkish national security council to lift the state of emergency still in force in four predominantly kurdish provinces in the south-east of the country. the council is fully aware that there are still significant and regrettable restrictions on fundamental freedoms, human rights and, not least, cultural rights, particularly in the areas where the state of emergency is still in force. these are of course covered by the copenhagen political criteria and it goes without saying that accession negotiations cannot be opened until these criteria are met to the letter. the eu is using all political dialogue meetings with turkey to press for further progress on democratic reforms. it is made clear on these occasions that the fight against terrorism must be conducted in full respect of human rights and the rule of law and that it can in no way be used as an excuse to introduce or maintain restrictions on these rights.
the council. - i think the honourable member can rest assured that the matter has been carefully considered by experts. it's not a random act. it's not a rash move. we can always hope that developments will take place so that the pkk can be removed from the list at some point. but when the pkk is on the list, it is not without reason. it's been thoroughly investigated. it is not that a decision has been taken which is not acceptable. these are objective criteria. but precisely because these are objective criteria, it is also possible that the pkk could be removed from the list later on on the basis of the same objective criteria. finally, i would like to challenge or refute the argument that turkey should behave worse - or whatever you want to call it - towards the kurds in turkey. there's no evidence of that. i mentioned in my reply an example of the opposite. so i hope and do not believe that my former colleague is right on this point.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank you for your answer, mr haarder. unfortunately, i have not received any answer to my questions about hadep, how you classify the organization and whether hadep will be included in the list of terrorist organizations in the future. you haven't said a word about that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. who will act here and protect the kurdish population? isn't this about terrorists? and if we look at the case of leyla zana, on the other hand, she is a sakharov prize winner of the european parliament and has been convicted in turkey for supporting the pkk. according to the latest list inside turkey, leyla zana is a terrorist. the question is: what terrorist act did the member of parliament, leyla zana, commit to be classified as a terrorist?
the commission has already taken a number of measures. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i am reporting today to the committee on legal affairs and internal market as rapporteur for a very technical directive, the machinery directive. the committee on legal affairs and the internal market has dealt with this subject in a total of nine meetings and hearings over the past year and a half. i am a lawyer by profession - these technical things are sometimes very unpleasant for a lawyer, but we have to deal with these technical things as well. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in my country, the government has the means to develop legislation. but the other side of the coin is the commission's total responsibility to parliament. the commission has not yet been given responsibility for this between the commission and parliament, and we therefore have difficulty in leaving the development of legislation entirely and unchecked to the commission, and have therefore asked for this article to be deleted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the committee on legal affairs and the internal market is often concerned only with improving the structure of certain rules, because we do not have the impression that this is always perfectly regulated in terms of legal and technical aspects. we also know that there is intense discussion in the council on how the questions of definition are structured. there are good arguments about the definitions. we have now reached agreement in the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. i have the impression that the committee's proposals will be broadly accepted tomorrow. i have had a long discussion with the shadow rapporteur, mr bill miller, who will speak later and to whom i am very grateful, and i believe that parliament's position on the first reading is largely clear. i am concerned about another point which is also mentioned in the articles, but which is more specifically mentioned in the recitals. i have already mentioned that i am a lawyer, but when i was dealing with this directive, i got into a bit of a crisis, because even for a lawyer, this is all very, very confusing and difficult at times. we must make all this clear so that our customers - our customers are european consumers and legal actors in europe - can understand all this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. below this level there is a general product safety directive, together with two overarching directives. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the only thing that should be said in the sectoral directives is that we need this or that declaration of conformity, or we need a type examination, or we simply need the submission of appropriate checks by the manufacturer, clearer directives, more transparent for the consumer, but also within the directive a clear structured form of the individual elements.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. if the report is to live up to the promise it makes with its title, i would like nothing better than to agree. i would like to explain briefly why he does not do that. the key word is internet. everything that is illegal offline is already illegal online. this fact does not seem to have been discussed in this house. it is thanks to other groups that providers can really only be punished if they know about illegal content on their websites. the rapporteur has done everything possible to criminalise the internet as a whole. i think that this is a wonderful illustration of the rapporteur's real intention. secondly, the report takes the approach that what is punished is first and foremost what is thought. there's less recognition for action. and that moves us away from punishing hate crime, which is what's really based on racial motivation, and towards mind policing. this leads to more censorship, less freedom of the press and speech. you can't support that! the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the situation of migrants. what's the report? the report does not deal with institutional racism, where eurodac is only the tip of the iceberg, nor with economic racism, nor with the pure racism which was decided in seville, namely not just to expand the fortress of the eu, but to go so far as to keep third countries directly in the grip. that is why this report cannot be taken seriously as anti-racist.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission's proposal for reform is welcome. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the merger control regulation is applied in a uniform manner. i think it is also far-sighted in that it already takes account of the enlargement process. i support the rapporteur's report and the group supports it, but i also share the concern that some of the proposals in the green paper, for example, might not be implemented. it is therefore very important to have the commission's commitment that the question of definitions, as well as the question of replacing market dominance tests, will not be postponed until later revisions. i think this is particularly true in view of the international dimension of mergers and particularly in the innovative areas in which they take place. the number of crossborder mergers has been steadily increasing in recent years. the increasing number and complexity of these cases certainly warrants a review of the distribution of tasks and a reorganization of the coordination between national and eu competition authorities. i welcome the greater focus on the commission as the single point of contact in the context of efficiency, transparency, legal certainty and shortening of time limits, reduction of the administrative burden on businesses, and i also expressly support the commission's suggestion that it might be necessary to create an additional judicial body. the commission has also been asked to examine the impact of mergers, particularly on employment, the criteria and procedures for assessing the admissibility of mergers. the restructuring of the sector has led to the loss of thousands of jobs throughout the eu. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the introduction of new forms of work organisation. the loss of jobs thus affects not only individual workers but also the economic and social cohesion of the whole region. i would like to recall that the nice european council explicitly linked economic performance and social progress. this is also a matter for competition law and competition policy, including merger control.
the commission. - mr president, i would like to congratulate and thank mrs figueiredo and of course the whole committee on women's rights for their very important support, but above all for their proposals and of course for their criticism. i would like to refer to some of the issues that were discussed, which i think are particularly important and on which no progress has been made. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome step towards the creation of a european framework for the protection of workers from the risks related to asbestos at work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so i would like to recall the following efforts: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good example of the need to ensure that the directive is applied in all member states. last year, following the evaluation of the implementation of the employment strategy, specific recommendations were made in 8 of the 15 countries on the need to improve their childcare infrastructure. the member states, with very few exceptions, generally refuse to set quantitative targets so that their achievement can be more easily monitored. but we see that year after year, and through the employment strategy, there is a clear improvement. the second issue is statistical monitoring, which at european level cannot be said to have been successful either, and there is now a close cooperation with eurostat so that the new human resources survey will include the issue of childcare services in the statistics. there has been a lot of debate on the definition, the situation is not the same in all member states, but i think it is very important that this element is now included in official statistics, as is the issue of the gender pay gap. the second point raised by several members is the question of the institute. i wondered if i agreed. i think we have discussed this matter many times in your committee. i am sure that the creation of this institute is necessary. you know that the commission has commissioned a study, we have already received the results, we have confirmed scientifically the need for this institute, there is the first estimate of budgetary and financial requirements and there is already correspondence between me and the president. i would like to draw your attention to the difficulty of setting up new institutions. i raised the matter at the last employment ministers' council and i must say that many countries responded positively and supported the need to establish the institute. the other countries were not ranked at all. we have not yet had any negative reaction from any member state to the establishment of the institute. i want to assure you that there will be as many steps as possible on my part towards a final decision. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. in this and other areas, such as the labour market and the whole legal framework for working conditions, the commission has an objective difficulty in monitoring the application of legislation. it does not have the mechanisms to monitor in detail what is happening in the member states. so it works on two levels. the first is, i would say, the relatively easy one, to examine whether the member states have adopted the necessary institutional framework and whether they have done so in the right way, and the second is, in any case of complaint about non-application of the law, that the commission should act immediately, using all means, and of course the court of justice. the last point i want to make is about the overall planning for 2002. i think we have made considerable progress, firstly, in terms of how we are going to operate. this year, throughout the programming, all portfolios will take gender equality into account in advance in their planning and analysis, and not later in their evaluation. secondly, the collection of gender-disaggregated data continues at all levels, which is very helpful in developing indicators, and thirdly, one of the priorities, which started this year, is that all directorates-general should have specific training for staff, especially those involved in planning and programming on gender equality. in the last two years of our cooperation, we have achieved important results in the legislative field, with the main achievement being the latest agreement on gender equality legislation, which also lays a very serious foundation and helps us a lot in the new proposal on article 13 on gender equality in all areas. a political comment: i believe that this directive will be extremely important and extremely controversial, and that is why a very important effort is being made to produce a text as well drafted and documented as possible, so as to help the debate to get on the right footing from the outset.
- mr president, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to congratulate mr schmid on a very good report on the commission's communication on the local dimension of the european employment strategy. as rapporteur for the european parliament's employment guidelines 2000 i would like to refer to what we decided almost unanimously in the plenary at the end of 1999: the special role and responsibility of local and regional authorities, the other partners at regional and local level and the social partners must be taken into account more fully. the role of public employment services in identifying local employment opportunities and ensuring a well-functioning local labour market should also be fully exploited. the committee on employment and social affairs' report supplements the sometimes vague call in the commission document for territorial employment pacts with the call for the creation of employment pacts between the social partners in enterprises. i have recently seen in my constituency how successful an attempt to do this has been. the burkert plants in ingelfingen have been saved. in exchange for workers waiving certain benefits, a guarantee of employment must be agreed. the integration of the local dimension into the european employment strategy will significantly improve it. it is a question of european coordination of national employment policies, including local employment policies, and of a common strategy for exploiting the social potential of creativity, innovation and entrepreneurship. it is a question of subsidiary solutions which reconcile flexibility and social security. the right formula for the european employment strategy is to think globally, act locally, and in this sense we want to support the herman schmid report.
- mr president, i have to go. the european commission promised years ago to commit itself to the local dimension of european employment policy. unfortunately, there was no additional financial resources, they had to be taken from the european social fund. the european parliament gives priority to local labour markets. they make a major contribution to improving the employment situation, whether in services, the social economy, the tertiary sector, in urban centres or in regions with difficult access. they improve the starting conditions for business creation, not only in the regional home market, but also at national and international level. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. integration is promoted. marginalised groups and socially disadvantaged groups - the elderly, the unemployed, people with disabilities - are more easily integrated into local labour markets. equally important are territorial employment pacts, in which towns and municipalities cooperate. social dialogues are taking place. what is lacking, however, is the targeted exchange of experience and best practice across national borders. in order to make more effective use of the potential of local and regional jobs, we need employment strategies from the social partners in the enterprises - mr menrad has given a very good example - and from the authorities. the development agencies, the monitoring bodies - also through the eu's socrates and leonardo programmes - the community initiatives and the structural funds, which support employment projects, will certainly help. the concept of lifelong learning then helps to adapt to technological change and to acquire new knowledge. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of drawing up a report on the subject of the european social fund.
the commission. - mr president, i think that mr schmidt's and the other members' comments show that the emerging powers in this century are women, the regions and small and mediumsized enterprises. the employment strategy must therefore take all three of these elements very seriously. the european employment strategy is, of course, about creating national action plans for employment, but the need for regional and local planning was quickly recognised, because of the new conditions in the globalised market, the new definition of isolation - when a region is remote or not from the centre - and the changing nature of this dimension, mainly due to the information society. but the new logic of the production model in both work and business has very quickly created the need for local strategic planning, for a local action plan for employment. the commission has consulted widely in order to propose this communication. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we believe it is very important that local planning links local development objectives with the main axes of the employment strategy which are themselves: employability, adaptability, entrepreneurship, equal opportunities. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information and communication services provided by the member states. how does the european union intervene, how do we link european planning, the european employment strategy, national planning, the national action plan for employment and local options: the european commission can of course intervene, with due respect for subsidiarity and the separation of powers, and i think we have already achieved significant results in the following ways: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. these proposals, also called local initiatives, are the projects we monitor closely, so that we can spread this knowledge, information and experience. the second element is the commission's support for local actors who wish to participate in these programmes, so that they can have access to the corresponding financial schemes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission is of course also developing new methodological tools to support these local action plans. i would stress the important role that national and regional parliaments have to play in national and regional action on employment, which has not yet been achieved to the extent that we would expect. in general, i would say that in the evaluation we have done of the implementation of the national action plans there is a serious problem in what has been said by several members, in cooperation; in the cooperation of the bodies, initiatives, civil society, social partners, workers and employers, where this need for cooperation has not been reflected as we would have expected. i think it is interesting to announce that next year, during the greek presidency, there will be a pan-european forum on local employment, where announcements will also be made on the progress of the programmes currently being implemented in cooperation with the european union on local employment.
- thank you very much, madam commissioner diamantopoulou! the debate is closed. the vote will take place at noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0251/2002) by mrs gillig, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the communication from the commission 'promoting basic labour standards and improving social governance in the context of globalisation' (com (2001) 416 - c5-0162/2002 - 2002/2070 (cos)).
- mr president, i have to go. is it anachronistic to call on companies to commit to basic labour standards in the face of the many threatening effects of globalisation and major changes in labour markets? is it acceptable to call for a more social orientation of policy in view of the dominance of economic orientation? in order to involve citizens, consumers, workers and managers, we must do both at the same time. the ppe group, for which i speak, shares the basic ideas of mrs gillig. we believe that it is important to standardize labour standards, to ensure non-discrimination in employment and occupation, to abolish forced labour, and to recognize the right to collective bargaining and the right to freedom of association. however, we prefer voluntary arrangements in enterprises if they are strictly observed and evaluated and clearly identified by quality seals. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. we expect private initiatives and effective public quality control to be a decisive contribution by the eu to give fundamental labour standards a proper place in the new global architecture. to achieve sustainable development, we need a two-tiered policy. first, all eu member states and the candidate countries must ratify the ilo conventions. i think that the initiative of a joint meeting between the ilo and the european parliament is absolutely worth supporting. we need to agree on the priority of standards in the areas of social policy, trade and the environment and social governance. secondly, the third countries should be encouraged to adopt ilo agreements. this is hardly achievable through a penal catalogue and much better through a system of incentives, such as increased financial development aid or preferential access to markets, when social seals have been achieved, because you can say, for example, that you will not allow child labour. my group therefore stresses the special role of employers' organizations and trade unions in promoting these important, fundamental labour standards.
- thank you, mr blokland, for the good news you gave us. the council cannot confirm them to us orally, as you have asked, because it is absent, but the commission is in a position to tell us what it thinks of our amendments.
commission. – mr president, the commission can accept all compromise amendments tabled and thus can support the voting recommendations of the rapporteur. the amendments as tabled in the compromise package should increase the quality of statistics. the main reason is that member states have more time to establish their methodologies for obtaining reliable data. data collected on complicated issues such as agricultural waste and waste recycling will benefit particularly from this. allow me to say a word on the waste data requirement for agriculture. the commission has also been very well aware of the fact that an equilibrium had to be found between the important data requirement and the minimisation of the burden on respondents. i would like to stress the following fact. in order to reduce the administrative burden on small enterprises, enterprises with fewer than 10 employees will be excluded from surveys, unless they contribute significantly to the generation of waste. this derogation for small enterprises is applicable for the whole regulation. moreover, i would like to recall that the regulation provides for a transitional period of up to three years and that this transitional period is closely linked to the pilot studies, which aim at finding the most cost-effective methods for obtaining data. the commission welcomes the proposed frequency of data provision, which is to be every second year. the commission takes note that member states will provide yearly updates for some aggregated data sets. these aggregated data refer, for example, to some of the structural indicators requested for the annual spring report of the commission, which was agreed at the göteborg european council of june 2001.
- mr president, i have to go. i would like to withdraw my support for motions 68 and 69 on behalf of my group. it was a joint request by the rapporteur and myself on behalf of our groups, because we wanted to approach the council, which wanted a solution now, but against the committee's line. the council has not been very receptive to us, and it is not my understanding of the codecision procedure that we should give away essential points of the negotiations at first reading without getting anything. we shall vote against both motions. (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to go. i would point out that a very strange thing has happened with regard to motions for resolutions nos 13 and 35. the original report refers to it as a 'consolidated version' and the application files - both in german - refer to it as a 'codified version' in the two identical applications. i would point out that there are difficulties with the legal services, but the wording originally adopted by the committee is 'consolidated' and not 'codified'. i'm sure we'll have to do a lot of things about the bathroom days, but i wanted to at least put that on the record.
- naturally, the linguistic services will carry out a thorough check on the basis of what you have reported, mr wieland, so that the text is in accordance with what you have indicated. on the 14th amendment:
- the english version will be corrected as well, mr. miller. the text i have is already corrected. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
- mr van den berg, this problem has already been raised by mr lagendijk. in fact, during the debate i chaired yesterday, i heard several members point out that the number of countries which have already signed the statute of the international criminal court is much higher. of course, the correction will be made. (parliament adopted the resolution)
in writing. -(de) i cannot share the optimistic assessment contained in the report on the world food summit. i think the results of the conference of 182 states are rather meagre, and the prospects for an effective fight against hunger as a world problem seem bleak. over the past six years, we have taken only a modest step towards the goal proclaimed at the previous summit in 1996, to reduce the number of hungry people in the world from 800 million to 400 million by 2015. while hunger has been contained in some states, new areas of famine have emerged in other regions, such as the former soviet union. the main reasons why the 1996 action plan failed to achieve its objective were mainly that it was based on a neoliberal policy, which does not eliminate the structural causes of hunger and malnutrition, but, on the contrary, reinforces them. instead of globalisation and market liberalisation, the strict removal of trade barriers imposed by the north on products from the south is just as necessary as the encouragement of small-scale food production for local markets by small-scale producers and the free access of producers to means of production such as water, land, forests or fisheries. only then can trade become a key element for global food security, if it is not seen as a one-way street, on which large agri-food groups or livestock feed producers have a free hand. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
- this concludes voting time. (the sitting was suspended at 1.10 p.m. and resumed at 3.05 p.m.)
- mr president, i have to go. the situation in angola is indeed very dramatic. every day, we see images of starving people and dying children around the world. the information i have is that 500,000 people, half a million, are in acute danger of death. this shows that now that the war is over, the priority must be humanitarian aid, especially food supplies. but of course it is also about ending the destruction of infrastructure as an important condition for consolidating the country. the consequences of the displacement operations which took place to cut off unita's supply must be eliminated. the most urgent emergency aid must be provided before a process of political consolidation can take place. but this is a necessary condition for peace and the conditions for successful elections.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. while there are signs of hope in angola, the situation in zimbabwe is becoming increasingly desperate, because a stubborn president cannot relinquish power at the cost of the complete destruction of his country and is thus driving his people into misery. i would like to mention a figure reported by the agencies today which is particularly shocking, although it is only a snapshot. 33% of zimbabwe's adult population is hiv-infected. every day between 2 000 and 5 000 people die from this disease, there are already 900 000 orphans in zimbabwe, and this too is a consequence of this unspeakable policy of mugabe and zanu-pf. prevention is no longer taking place, treatment is no longer taking place. poverty adds to the misery of these people. in the country that once had a medical system that was a model for africa, there is hardly any medical system, at least not a universal one for a long time, because the country's medical staff has fled, because the hospital system has collapsed, because there are no more medicines. all this is the result of a policy whereby those who still have hope for the future in their lives turn their backs on this country and leave the poor behind. the famine that is spreading in southern africa is only partly a famine caused by the drought, by the natural disasters that occasionally strike such regions, but it is man-made and is also being used as a weapon. we need to put europe under real pressure in the hope that reason will come to the fore. but this pressure must also be applied to those who are now making full statements in the framework of nepad that they are committed to good governance, to respect for human rights and to democratic values. if they are serious about this, they can prove their credibility by speaking to their neighbour, mugabe, with an open hand, withdrawing their political support and making it clear that he is isolated on a continent that is now trying to emerge from misery with respect for human dignity.
- mr president, i have to go. we have a partnership and cooperation agreement with russia. an intensive energy partnership is being worked out with russia. but in russia there is still no democratic standard. freedom of the press and democracy are still not able to flourish there. the case of gregori pasko, for example, is a touchstone for the rule of law in russia. again and again, as in this case, judicial decisions in russia are based on secret military legislation of the soviet union, which is not even registered in the own ministry of justice. what did gregori pasko do? he did nothing but his duty as a journalist and as a citizen. he photographed an illegal dumping of nuclear waste, and he showed civil courage. for this he was sentenced to several years of forced labor in russia. i think it is a scandal that europe is simply watching. there will be a petition to review the court's ruling. but i do not have the impression that russia alone will succeed in revising this clearly unjustified court ruling. that is why i think it is urgent that president putin be heard when he says that he wants to allow independent media in the country. i think it is an important responsibility of the commission - and i ask mrs diamantopoulou to take this message to the cabinet - that in all plans with russia, human rights and democratic freedoms are discussed first and that a response is first demanded from the russian government, and then that we move on to intergovernmental talks on energy.
- mr president, i have to go. you should recognize them by their deeds and not by their words - i agree with mrs schroedter - the pasko case is increasingly becoming a test case for whether or not the rule of law is developing in russia, and thus a serious test case for relations between the eu and russia. i often get the impression that our policy towards russia is a successful mixture of deception and self-deception, where one does not know exactly where deception ends and self-deception begins. we saw this at the nato summit in rome. we see this in the osce. we see this here at the strasbourg european council, and we see it in the relations between the eu and russia. there is constant talk that russia is very far along the road to democracy, or even that russia is a functioning democracy. this has nothing to do with reality. we see this in the case of chechnya. but we can see this quite clearly in the case of mr pasko, because mr pasko did what the institutions i have mentioned keep talking about. he has been a champion of freedom, democracy, public health and safety. he turned against a crime. he has uncovered a crime which has endangered people and would have endangered people even more had it not been uncovered, and he has done his duty, as mrs schroedter rightly said. now is the time for us to do our duty and say clearly: we stand behind the civil rights activist and journalist pasko. he has done us all a service and we must support him in this situation where his health and freedom are most threatened, not only for humanitarian reasons but for the sake of the credibility of the european union, whose liberal ideals he has also championed, and for the sake of relations between russia and the ec, because a genuine partnership with russia cannot succeed unless the rule of law is strengthened and there are further setbacks on the road to the rule of law. there have been some serious setbacks recently, and we must fear that the last vestiges of democracy and the rule of law in russia are also in danger if those who are also making the pasko case the subject of a power struggle within russia, in which they want to make it clear that the military and intelligence services are still in charge, prevail. this is incompatible with european principles and therefore our credibility is at stake. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. the massive deterioration of the situation in belarus is also shown by the fact that we have two plenary sessions in a row on this subject at the emergency session. this is really an exception, otherwise we are much more versatile at this point. it is incredible how mr lukashenko, as the sole ruler, keeps believing that he can do in belarus what is not allowed anywhere else in europe and also nowhere in the osce area. he clearly suffers from a loss of reality, in my opinion. the last example in the area of freedom of expression, namely that opinion polls now have to be negotiated with the government, that clients, funding, methods have to be reviewed and that the government commission demands the correction of opinion polls, shows the dramatic situation, the dramatic development we have in this country. the second example is that we as a delegation in this parliament receive a letter from the ambassador telling us what to do with our agenda. he may try to do so with his parliament, but we are freely elected members of parliament and we still determine our own agenda. this shows the situation of the members of parliament. we are tabled this resolution against the background of the question being raised in the osce whether or not the parliamentary assembly should be recognised. i do not think it can be recognized, because it is not freely chosen.
- mr president, i have to go. belarus - a country which for centuries in history was more oriented towards central europe and has maintained a close relationship with our present community - has been terribly beaten in the 20th century. first, there was great russian imperialism, then stalinism, which was particularly cruel there and in ukraine, then the nazi occupation with its crimes - the war particularly affected belarus - then again soviet colonialism, chernobyl, which had a very strong effect there, and now finally mr lukashenko. mr lukashenko is a scourge for this country, he has become - thank god - a singular figure in today's europe. since the fall of milosevic, mr lukashenko has, thank god, been a relic of a bygone era. that is why we must do everything we can to support the suppressed democracy movement in belarus, to work for the release of persecuted journalists, to stand up for the rule of law, democracy and freedom of expression. it is one of the last tyrannical regimes in europe, and this regime must be overthrown peacefully, democratically and under the rule of law. that is why i think it is right that we should be dealing with this country for a second time in the shortest possible time, and we will not stop until this country actually enjoys what we enjoy, namely democracy and the rule of law on european standards, until this country has also returned to the community of free european peoples. this also means that we must support the civil rights activists, that we must support the independent media, as mr belder has said, and that we must ensure that tyranny does not stifle the spirit of freedom, but that this spirit of freedom also prevails in belarus. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. at the turn of the 19th to the 20th century, ships were full of europeans who wanted to emigrate from europe to argentina. if you are in buenos aires today, you will experience a fascinating mini-europe. all the peoples of europe are united there in their cultural richness and live together in peace. today, 100 years later, and in some cases 50 years later, the opposite is true: in front of european embassies there are long lines of argentines of european origin who want to emigrate to europe. this is a symbol of the success of europe and european unity, but unfortunately it is also a sign of god's failure of argentina. as someone who loves and appreciates this wonderful country immensely, i have to say that this is something we as europeans must regret and where we must offer our solidarity. but i think mrs mckenna is oversimplifying her point here by referring to international institutions such as the world bank and the imf. it must be seen very clearly that argentina is actually a land of milk and honey. there is meat, honey, milk, wine - all of the highest quality and in abundance. the argentine agriculture could still help feed europe. argentina has oil and natural gas. it exports energy and is one of the richest countries in the world with ideal conditions. that there are still these extreme social tensions in this country - i have seen neighborhoods burning, tires burning on the highways, blockades and riots - then you just have to say that this is first of all, unfortunately, because in argentina there is a political system that does not work, that is inefficient, that is corrupt, that causes enormous costs. in poor provinces such as the missions, for example, the provincial mps earn more than a member of the european parliament. i am not talking about giving everyone their salary, but argentina has a very inefficient system, and if argentina does not solve its own problems, as has been done in neighbouring brazil, then we europeans cannot do anything. we must provide help for self-help. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. there is no disagreement on the matter itself, but we do recommend a different procedure. we have a very substantial, very serious debate on iraq and other important issues on wednesday, and we have prepared very carefully in our group, both in terms of speaking time and content. that is why we propose that the debate on the international criminal court be held not this week but during the second session in september. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so there is no disagreement on the matter, but as far as the procedure is concerned, we are not proposing this week, but the second september meeting here in strasbourg.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. after this decision, i have a request to make to you as a member of the romanian delegation. the romanian parliament will be discussing the agreement which the foreign minister has negotiated with the united states on this issue in mid-september, and you may be aware that he has not informed the parliament. so there will be a very controversial debate in bucharest. if we do not discuss this until the second part-session in september, perhaps you should write a letter to your colleague saying that the romanian parliament should abide by the eu's common position and perhaps not support this agreement. that's what it takes. thank you very much. (applause from the centre)
mr president, last monday the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy held a debate with the danish presidency on the implementation of the sixth research framework programme. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it was stated that, after adopting the framework programme, the council had agreed to a specific regulation on ethical issues in the specific programmes, which are adopted without parliament's participation. some colleagues then argued that this agreement was contrary to the agreement which the european parliament concluded with the council of ministers in may. the documents which were put to us for a vote before the second reading did not mention an agreement on the matters which the council has now settled. i didn't get any information either. the european parliament is right to put questions to the council. but i would also like to ask, as a simple member, whether the president or someone else has received documents which were not before all members when they voted.
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has been working. in 1999, the total amount of packaging waste generated in the european union was 63.5 million tonnes. this represents about 17% of municipal waste and 3% of the weight of all waste generated. directive 94/62/ec on packaging and packaging waste has led to a reduction in the environmental impact of packaging and packaging waste, in particular through increased collection, recycling and recovery of waste. packaging is now recycled throughout europe, not just in central and northern european countries. there is no member state which did not reach the minimum material recovery targets for 2001 in 1998. the aim of this proposal is to set new targets for material recycling and recycling in general which are much higher than those provided for in the current version of the packaging directive. the commission proposal more than doubles the minimum material recovery target by 55% and increases the overall minimum recovery target by 10% to 60%. the european parliament has repeatedly stressed the need to take account of the economic and environmental consequences of the recovery and material recovery targets. this was done in the most detailed cost-benefit analysis ever carried out for community material recovery targets. the additional financing needs are estimated at a total of eur 700 million per year. the alternative disposal costs amount to eur 800 million in comparison. in addition, the environmental benefits were estimated at around eur 350 million. however, there are significant differences between the different packaging materials, both in terms of environmental benefits and the cost of material recovery. the commission proposal therefore sets not only overall targets for recovery and material recovery but also differentiated targets for individual materials. this is intended to ensure that material recycling is focused on those materials where it provides the most environmental benefits in relation to the costs incurred. some member states have already reached the new targets proposed by the commission. however, for other countries that have not yet developed their material recovery programmes, they represent a significant challenge. i should also like to add that i introduced the proposal on behalf of my colleague, mrs wallström, who is in johannesburg today for the sustainable development summit.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the committee on the environment, mrs corbey, for her report and congratulating her on it. it has broadened the debate on the amendment of the packaging directive and brought it into a broader environmental policy light. in addition to the change in recycling rates, it has introduced considerations of environmental impact assessments, for example through the use of life cycle analysis. it has thus already - one might say - anticipated the discussions on the white paper on integrated product policy. it is of course never wrong to start thinking about environmental impact assessment methods as early as possible, as this will create wider awareness of such environmental policy concepts. on the other hand, we cannot prescribe results in the directive on packaging waste until we have dealt with the subject in detail here in parliament. the white paper on integrated product policy is designed to do this. the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy has almost unanimously agreed. that is why we in the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy voted by a majority to exclude amendment no 16, which already provides for the introduction of environmental indicators for packaging, from the report. amendment no 16 also provides for a general avoidance rate of 10%. does this mean that the production of packaging material should be reduced? how are we going to achieve this? we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. that is another proposal which we should not be getting too close to. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. the new targets are ambitious, but i think they are justified in the end, from an industrial policy point of view, in favour of the environmental objectives of the european union. we will therefore be happy to agree to mrs corbey's report to a large extent, with the restrictions i mentioned earlier. (applause from the centre)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. mrs corbey has presented a comprehensive, ambitious report, which i support on most points. it is necessary that in future all member states actively and constructively contribute to the systematic prevention, collection and recycling of packaging waste. we need optimal systems for the 58 million tonnes of packaging waste produced in the european union every year. we are thus improving environmental protection, but at the same time we are also giving important industries greater planning certainty. two amendments are extremely important to me in the vote. the first concerns ceramic packaging, which has been produced for decades in many member states, particularly in france, italy, the netherlands and spain, but also in family farms in my home region. ceramic bottles, ceramic pots and ceramic shells are now used mainly for food packaging, but also for the packaging of snacks, chocolates, pastries, etc. and they account for only 0.1% of the packaging waste generated in the european union. so that is 60,000 tonnes out of 58 million tonnes. these ceramic packages are made of pure burnt clay and therefore do not contain any harmful substances. the nature of the material makes it pointless to recycle the used ceramic containers. they cannot be thermally recovered or recycled. they are inert and do not pose an environmental problem. it would make no sense, either ecologically or economically, to collect such small quantities separately and transport them thousands of kilometres across the member states. i therefore ask for support for amendment no 68, which sets out a small number of targets for recovery. the second point concerns the recognition of the latest techniques for the recycling of plastics in the directive. if we are going to amend this directive, we should take the opportunity to update the legal requirements in technical terms as well. amendment no 43 provides for the physical recycling of plastics, which will allow the production of new-product quality plastics from contaminated plastic waste. this is a method which makes perfect sense both ecologically and economically and has been proven to be a great technology. in germany, for example, over 1.8 million tonnes of plastic waste have already been recycled. there is enormous potential in this technology. it offers another method of recycling plastics in addition to the melting of high-quality, pure packaging plastics and the purely thermal recycling of mixed plastics in waste incineration plants. it should therefore be included in the directive. in addition, consumer protection requires that packaging materials are safe and comply with the requirements, that the hazard of waste is minimised and that the manufacture of packaging is state-of-the-art. i do not think that the commission should develop environmental indicators for packaging. the commission should develop concrete criteria for assessing the environmental impact of packaging. we need this directive to establish a functioning waste management system for packaging in all the member states of the european union. (applause from the centre)
mr president, commissioner byrne, i would like to thank you for your reply. i want to focus for a moment on the question of what will happen to the area closure. we have a deficit in the food and feed sector as a whole. we have a deficit particularly in the area of plant protein, protein production. so it is obvious that the area recovery, the ecological crop rotation that we can create by protein rotation, can now also be used for protein production. if you now provide in the new proposal for 10% permanent set-aside for nature conservation, then there is certainly no objection to taking 5%-10% into this area, also to take account of landscape-determining elements. but we have to focus on the ecological impact of protein farming in the other areas of land reduction and on the fact that this protein farming gives us 40 to 80 kilos of nitrogen. we must think again about how we can come to a system of control and how we can also bring the ecological component into the negotiations with the americans in such a way that we can finally come to a new agreement and not always have to refer to agreements that were concluded ten years ago, that is to say, blair house.
- mr president, i have to go. you've already answered part of my question. but first i wanted to say, i don't know if i checked in yesterday. but i was here the whole time, i voted too. i would therefore ask that this be followed up, since the minutes are coming so late anyway. the second point i wanted to make is this: could the minutes not be distributed in the morning in future too? the advantage of postponing the approval to the afternoon would be that you could look at the minutes in the morning in peace. i don't understand why it's not being distributed until this afternoon.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i should also like to begin by thanking the two rapporteurs, mr fava and mrs sanders-ten holte, because i think both reports have been prepared with great care and have also shown that the subject has been dealt with in a very responsible manner. i should also like to thank you for your willingness to look for ways and compromises together in the run-up to the votes in the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, which we have largely succeeded in doing. i would also like to say a word of thanks to the commissioner, because she has indeed been very committed to this project and i believe that without her sustained work we might not be at the point today where we can complete the first reading of such a project. i would like to add one more thing. i was a little surprised, commissioner, that you were so critical of a large number of amendments which parliament has adopted - and i have just looked at them again - and that you were putting forward the prospect that you could not accept them. i think you should take a closer look and see in parliament the partner you will need to be able to push this joint project through to the council. we are talking about a situation that has long since been realized on the ground. now it's standard that goods, like people, can cross borders when and how they want. this freedom on the ground should have started in the sky, because it seems much less problematic to drop the limits in the sky before lifting them on the ground. but now things have changed, and the pressure of expectations is growing even more among the population, among the people, among those who fly frequently, who say: 'let's finally do politics and put this right! that was the starting point for us to want a uniform sky, because the current situation is simply unsatisfactory. i will give you a few examples to illustrate this point. we have a situation in europe today where one in four flights is delayed. part of the delay is because the airspace is overloaded, and it's overloaded because we have this catastrophic situation -- the fragmentation in the sky. 350,000 hours of flying are wasted every year, caused by planes having to take detours because the direct route is blocked by military zones that cannot be overflown. in addition, we now have 41 airspace blocks in 15 eu member states. i always like to illustrate this with an example: on a flight from rome to brussels, the captain has to fly through nine different airspace blocks, which means he has to check in nine times and check out nine times. if you are trying to tell me that this does not involve additional potential dangers, because of course there is always the possibility of misunderstanding, language problems can occur, you are wrong. this is a very important point, and i hope that the commission will take it up. i believe that the proposals are appropriate to create a new architecture in the sky, to set up functional airspace blocks and thus ensure that on the one hand we increase capacity, which is absolutely necessary in view of the increasing volume of air traffic, and on the other hand we increase safety by minimising potential dangers in advance, that we reduce costs and thus make flying cheaper, and that we ultimately also do a favour, especially to the environment, because the 350,000 unnecessary flight hours that i have already mentioned can be eliminated. so we have the right target in sight. i would also like to say that there are certainly some points which can be discussed critically, and i know that some of my colleagues have doubts about this or that point, whether it is the right way to go. we have tried to make certain additions in the committee. i mention the industry consultation body because we felt it was right to involve users and manufacturers more closely in the project, so that we do not produce something that is not needed later, or on the other hand the requirements are quite different from what is coming to market. because in addition to the fragmentation we have in the 41 airspace areas, we also have a fragmentation of technology in europe. i believe that this too must be modernised and brought into line as quickly as possible. i would have liked to have gone a step further - as mr stockmann did, who made a similar request - and created a european supervisory authority, and to have removed the national states from this area in a much greater degree. i know that this is an illusion at the moment, but i am still relatively young and i am therefore confident that we are starting today, that we are taking an important intermediate step, that we are saying that we want the single sky, that we are deciding on the political objective, that we are then going to take the path that the commission has proposed to us. so we can hope that at some point in 10, 20 years there will be a truly single european sky with a european supervisory authority and, of course, national interests will be taken into account. i therefore ask you to approve these projects by a large majority.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. and it is moving - the european air transport policy! the pressure is obviously so great that the decades-long blockade by spain and the united kingdom has been abandoned in the council. this is a great step forward for europe. the single sky project is of equal importance for european airspace as the introduction of the euro for the european economic and monetary area. i just hope that the awareness of the problem and the will to solve it are as strong, because, as we all know, the devil is in the detail. it is already becoming apparent that very different national interests are gaining strength, which are calling into question the ambitious goal of achieving this project by 2004. the reports by mr fava and mrs sanders-ten holte have the right spirit of problem solving. i hope the house has it too. i would also like to say a few words on some of the key points which have been raised in the debate and which seem to be important. i still find it difficult to understand why the division of roles between the community and eurocontrol has not been settled definitively. there is still room for action. the second point is that the commission has made a good start with cooperation between civil and military authorities, but i do not think it goes far enough, because ultimately we need full integration of air traffic control services. this is a matter of principle. i know that we would naturally need a wider debate in the institutions, extending to the common foreign and security policy and not just to transport policy. thirdly, the provision of air navigation services requires independent national supervisory authorities, which should also be institutionally separate from the service providers. we would like to have a european supervisory authority, as my colleague has said, but the time does not seem to have come. fourthly, we need clear authorization and designation procedures and transparent fee systems. i would ask the honourable members not to get involved at this stage in a discussion about whether public or private providers are needed for air traffic control services, otherwise the whole project may come to a standstill, as we know in the case of the public transport service. it would be detrimental. the first priority is safety and the provision of integrated air traffic control services appropriate to the functional airspace blocks. so fifth -- and this is the heart of the design: we need to create functional airspace blocks. the commission has not, however, properly and sufficiently described the way forward. there is still room for improvement here, because small-scale government in the sky must come to an end. we have 26 subsystems, 58 control systems, various equipment. this is unnecessary and increases - as has already been said - the probability of error. safety must be the first priority. i can only agree with your report, mrs nelly maes. the report by mr van miert is a very good report. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, very good vice-president! first of all, i should like to apologise for not being here at the beginning of the debate, because i arrived only this morning. i think that with all the details that have been presented, we should be happy this morning. because even though it took three years, we've come a long way. the commission said in its first speech - in the summer of 1999 - that uniform air traffic control is a typical european problem which we must tackle in a european manner. the vice-president then set up the high-level working party. we in parliament were not entirely happy with this, but it was the right thing to do, because it was an attempt to address the concerns of the member states who feared an unreasonable centralisation. it was therefore right to set up the high-level working group which submitted its report in 2000. the commissioner then submitted the proposals for directives in 2001. today, after good debates in committee, we have to conclude the first reading in parliament, which means that we have come a long way in three years and we should be pleased about that for now. secondly, of course there are still philosophical differences. but let's think about this. i think there are enough examples that military and civilian airspace control can be integrated, linked, and that's more effective, also in the interest of military security. we should overcome this contradiction between military airspace control and civil airspace control. secondly, we should make it clear that we are democrats and democracy means that the government must make the decision, controlled by the parliament. that is why eurocontrol is something we cannot ultimately make friends with. eurocontrol is a body of civil servants. we recognize eurocontrol's technical expertise, its service function in certain sectors, but the regulatory function must be with the european union, the commission, controlled by us, because we are responsible for the state regulations. madam vice-president, perhaps you can tell us in your reply how far the council has progressed. they have given the council every opportunity - the high-level working group, the council has been able to negotiate in parallel. can we be sure that the council will have a common position on the dossier by christmas? i am not saying that we should be in favour of the single market.
- mr president, madam vice-president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we, the transport experts of the christian-democratic group, also support the commission's proposal on noise charges in principle, because we must ensure that higher charges for noisy aircraft actually encourage airlines to use quieter aircraft and thus protect the public from unnecessary inconvenience. we in the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism are not very happy with the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, because the environment committee simply rejected the proposals we adopted by a large majority in the committee on transport. the commission should review how it sees our proposals being re-introduced, because the proposals of the transport committee were aimed at giving airports a much more differentiated framework for the calculation of noise charges. we wanted to make it legally clear that a wider spread is possible and that aircraft can be charged either on the basis of certificates or on the basis of actual measured noise levels. we believe that what we have proposed in the committee on transport is more environmentally efficient and of a higher standard. we have always followed the principle in the eu that if there are already more advanced effective systems for protecting the environment and we set a minimum level at european level, the countries and groups that have more advanced systems do not have to go down with their level. commissioner, you can understand my concern that we are lowering the level of existing noise regulations, or even removing them, by means of european legislation. we have agreed by a large majority in the house on amendment no 11, which is to be included in the blokland report, and in which we want to make it clear that existing noise abatement systems, which are more efficient, may be maintained, so that european law does not mean a step backwards in environmental protection. i am therefore looking forward to your comments on amendment no 11.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. the directive is part of a strategy to combat noise pollution at airports and in the surrounding area - a real concern for the public. the aim of the strategy is to achieve the use of quieter aircraft and to improve the environmental performance of noise-related fines. this is already the case at many community airports, but by no means at all. the commissioner is right when she says that we have very different criteria for differentiating charges and for quantifying noise pollution from one member state to another. there is a real need for harmonization. the directive makes sense in this respect. it will at the same time bring about greater transparency, equal treatment and predictability for airlines, so it will also have a side effect on competition and, of course, will significantly increase noise protection. but - and i would now like to echo the views of my colleague mr jarzembowski - the proposal for a directive has a serious flaw. i'd say he's causing a rather unintended down-tuning. the commission proposal is to force a flattening out of progress to the point where there is no longer any tangible incentive, and that cannot be our environmental and noise policy objective. frankfurt, london, paris, munich, amsterdam, hamburg, rome, madrid, stuttgart have other noise cancellation systems which offer much better noise protection and which must be maintained. the commission proposal, if it is not slightly modified, would prevent this. why would you do that? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the noise levels in the community are not reduced. therefore, quiet aircraft must be rewarded and noisy aircraft must be significantly burdened. our aim, with all the harmonization that is needed, must be to maintain the highest possible standard of noise protection in europe. that is why my group has tabled three further amendments which make it clear that existing charging systems which have a higher environmental impact should be maintained. i ask the house to support these motions. it would be absurd to penalize airports which offer far more noise protection than has been proposed so far.
the commission mr president, i would be very happy to introduce the subject of today's debate to you, even if briefly, knowing that after listening to the speeches of the members of this house i shall have the opportunity once again to express the commission's opinion on this matter. i would like to begin by saying the following, mr president. the proposal for a regulation on sales promotion aims to create an internal market in the field of discounts, gifts, premiums and promotional competitions and games. the commission has shown that the current fragmentation of the rules governing these services is hampering their crossborder provision. parliament has called for swift action in this regard. the proposed regulation has sought to respond to this call by harmonising information requirements and removing outdated national restrictions in this area. i welcome the motion for a resolution tabled by mr beysen. although a number of amendments have been tabled to the commission's text, the result is in line with the objectives of the internal market and the modernisation envisaged. the proposal is designed to remove a number of value restrictions on promotional measures and at the same time to harmonise a number of information requirements. this balanced approach must be maintained. this need is also recognised in most of parliament's amendments, but the commission is less happy with amendments which reintroduce a limitation of the value of promotional activities, such as amendment no 29, or amendments which completely abolish the information requirements, such as amendments nos 49 and 54. mr president, this proposal has raised concerns in the following four areas. firstly, the treatment of national prohibitions on resale below cost. secondly, the coherence of this proposal with the commission's ongoing work on a much broader initiative on fair trade practices. thirdly, the provisions on promotional games. in this connection, the commission is accused of encouraging illegal gambling activities. finally, the commission was also criticised for relying too heavily on mutual recognition. mr president, i should like to confine myself to these introductory remarks. as i said, the commission will have the opportunity to come back to these four important points in greater detail after the speeches by members of parliament. before doing so, mr president, the commission would very much like to hear the views of the members of parliament so that it can give its answer better than tonight.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. - mr president, i have to go. the promotion regulation is a difficult and controversial issue. commissioner bolkestein and mr beysen have made this clear in their speeches. i would like to thank the honourable member for the fact that after a long consultation such a useful result has been reached. it was really hard. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european treaties establish the principle of an open market economy with free competition. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the enforcement of these competition rules is the responsibility of the member states and the european institutions. there is a considerable need for harmonization in this area, particularly after the introduction of the euro. the committee on economic and monetary affairs has welcomed the basic line of the commission's draft regulation, with a few exceptions, and has delivered an opinion which is more closely geared to the internal market than the final draft of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market which is now before us. we were more open, particularly with regard to the principle of the country of origin. we wanted to maintain the national antitrust rules and the rules against unfair competition, but we wanted to go a step further. it is true that the antitrust rules of the ec treaty and the essential national rules on special sales should be preserved. this protects smes against large companies. exceptions for specific sectors such as lotteries, regulated professions and pharmaceuticals are to be established and are justified. the explicit inclusion of customer loyalty schemes in addition to the normal discounts is also right and necessary. the commission has not taken this into account. the exclusion of the prohibition on selling at cost, as requested by the economic and social committee and accepted by the legal affairs committee, is correct. i would like to express my disagreement with the remarks made by commissioner bolkestein. the information requirements proposed by the commission as a condition for the proposed prohibition of selling at cost are practical, raise competition concerns and would lead to indirect second-hand price fixing. that cannot be the aim, and i do not think, commissioner, that you will find a majority in parliament on this issue.
- mr president, i have to go. i need a technician. i thought it was some kind of special intelligence i had, but it was the machine that did it. even though i voted against it, it said "green".
the council. - mr president, in recent weeks we have witnessed a terrible natural disaster in central europe, which has caused damage of almost unimaginable proportions. both member states and candidate countries have been affected. it reminds us - and this is almost symbolic in this half-year, when we are facing enlargement - that the member states and the candidate countries share a common destiny, have common problems which we must be better able to solve by joint action. i would like to thank the european parliament for this opportunity to express on behalf of the council our deep sympathy with the victims of the disaster. many millions of people are affected. some have lost loved ones, many have lost their homes. the material destruction will mark everyday life for a long time to come. we all have to do our best to help. it is important, not least in view of the importance of enlargement for the european community, that the eu, which is also a community of values and solidarity, should contribute to the resolution of the widespread damage. this was also emphasised in the letter received on 21 august by the president of the european parliament and the heads of government of the member states from commission president prodi, chancellor schröder and chancellor schüssel. the presidency was closely involved in the deliberations leading to the dispatch of the letter. i would also like to thank the european parliament and the president of the european parliament on behalf of the council for the commitment and goodwill shown by parliament to ensure rapid and effective action by the community. the commission has likewise shown great and praiseworthy activeness in this difficult case. the commission deserves praise for the speed with which the eu has been able to initiate decisions which will benefit the regions concerned in germany and austria as well as in the candidate countries the czech republic and slovakia. some activities have already been launched, others may be launched in the near future. i believe that there is broad support in the council for the flexible use of existing instruments - in the field of the structural funds, agricultural aid and transeuropean networks, among others - and for the granting of derogations and quicker procedures in the field of state aid and procurement to the affected areas. the council had its first opportunity to discuss the commission's communication at a meeting of the permanent representatives committee on 29 august. the commission proposes, inter alia, the creation of an eu disaster fund to be used in the event of floods in central europe and future disasters. i would like to thank the commission for the proposal, which is being examined by the council with the greatest attention. i am glad to note that at the informal meeting of foreign ministers in helsinki last weekend there was political support for the establishment of the fund. this is a good starting point for the intense discussions between the commission, the council and the european parliament in the coming weeks. the matter will be put on the agenda of the general affairs and external relations council meeting on 30 september - 1 october. we shall take stock of the situation and, if possible, reach concrete decisions. the danish presidency is very keen that the community should do its part to solve the problems which the severe floods have created for our fellow citizens, both in present and future member states. we must be swift and effective and we look forward to constructive cooperation with the european parliament on this important matter, which cannot fail to affect many of the procedures and rules of this parliament.
commission. - mr president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have all been both shocked and moved by the seriousness of the floods which so severely hit germany, austria, the czech republic and slovakia a few weeks ago. on 18 august, together with president prodi and my colleagues, michaele schreyer and günter verheugen, who are here today, we were able to assess the extent of this disaster on the spot, particularly in the dresden area. president prodi and margot wallström went with günter verheugen to prague, and franz fischler himself, in his own country, was able to see the extent of the damage. today, ladies and gentlemen, my first words will be to reiterate our deep sympathy to all the families who have been affected, but also to express special gratitude to the civil security forces, to the thousands of volunteers - we have seen them - to the local, regional and national political and administrative authorities who have shown admirable dedication in this situation. on 28 august the commission announced a series of initiatives under the various community policies to help the countries and regions affected cope with the disaster. the union has not only shown its solidarity with the people affected but also its capacity to act and react quickly. mr president, we, the commissioners present here, were particularly sensitive to the remarks you made at the beginning of this part-session, as well as to the testimony which minister haarder gave us a few moments ago. i would like to remind you that when it comes to natural hazards, there are always two things that go hand in hand: prevention and repair. you will allow me to say a word first of prevention. i know that prevention requires means, that it requires political courage. i am thinking, for example, of the desire to control urban planning, to avoid waterproofing too large areas, in short, to clean up rather than develop the territory. but i also know, ladies and gentlemen, that prevention always costs less than having to repair. at community level, it is clear that the structural funds and the cohesion fund are the financial lever for prevention. a simple example. several countries were affected by the floods of the rhine and meuse during the first half of the 1990s. we then mobilised more than 140 million euros under interreg, and this money has helped develop flood monitoring and warning systems, as well as identifying risk areas, developing retention basins, and facilitating the flow of water. for the current period, 2000-2006, a large number of programmes also contain risk prevention actions. this is the case, for example, of the objective 1 programme for brandenburg, which provides for the construction and development of flood protection installations. more than 40 projects will be implemented with a budget of eur 230 million. this is also the case in the austrian tyrol. following the galtur disaster in february 1999, which claimed 31 lives, nearly ten million euros will be allocated to a measure to prevent avalanches. i am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that whatever efforts are being made today are not up to the risks we face. we have started to reflect with you on the future of regional policy after 2006. i will propose, in due course, that the prevention of natural, technological and environmental risks should become a strong, almost unavoidable priority in future regional policy programmes after 2006. we see that the frequency of these disasters is increasing, although not all of them are as severe. in addition, as we have seen in the case of germany, regions which, with the support of the structural funds, made considerable efforts to revitalise their economies after reunification, to rehabilitate towns and villages, are now seeing their efforts destroyed in a matter of hours. regional development cannot therefore be achieved without the prevention of natural, technological and environmental risks. the commission, on the initiative of our colleague margot wallström, will propose a european strategy for risk prevention before the end of this year. in conclusion, i would like to say that it is not unimportant that we are debating this subject today, at this very moment, when the heads of state and government are meeting in johannesburg. it is clear that our planet needs global thinking and collective courage, as the brundtland report called for in the late 1980s, before the rio summit. we also see that this global thinking, whether at the global or european level, must be implemented in concrete, local, on the ground. this is how the ecological challenge, the challenge of sustainable development, meets the regional policy which we have the responsibility to animate. i now come to the urgent need to rebuild, to quickly demonstrate our solidarity with the german and austrian länder, but also with the czech and slovak regions which have been devastated. first, we must mobilise all the instruments we already have to meet this challenge. this is the commitment made by the commission on 28 august, a commitment which was immediately translated into decisions in the first area, agriculture, at the instigation of our colleague mr franz fischler. the existing instruments include, of course, the structural funds for the member states concerned and the preaccession instruments for the applicant countries. for the eligible areas and regions, the structural funds will be able to be redeployed between the different priorities of the regional programmes, and we are prepared to increase the cofinancing rates to the highest possible level. meetings will be held in the coming days with the national and regional authorities to specify the amounts that can be reallocated according to requests from the member states. the flexibility provided for in the regulations will be fully exploited, particularly as regards state aid. i also confirm that the disaster areas will not be penalised by the application of the n + 2 rule if, because of the floods, the appropriations are not used up within the time limits laid down in the regulations. but again, ladies and gentlemen, there are limits to the instruments we have at our disposal. the structural funds cannot therefore intervene outside the eligible areas. in germany, most of the disaster areas receive support from these funds under objective 1, but not in austria. moreover, these instruments are governed by provisions which you are familiar with and which do not always allow the necessary aid to be released quickly. that is why, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is proposing to set up a fund for the regions and the member states to provide assistance in the event of a major natural disaster. a solidarity fund which, i stress, will make it possible to act for the benefit of both the present member states and the future member states. we thought it preferable to use a new flexibility instrument, which could be mobilised to the tune of at least eur 500 million in 2002 and in the future to the tune of eur 1 billion, which would be used to fund the fund in the event of a disaster. the purpose of this fund would be to help restore normal life to the community - i am thinking of repairing the energy, transport and telecommunications networks, rebuilding or constructing temporary accommodation - and to limit the damage by consolidating preventive infrastructure, such as dams and barrages. so this proposal is, as you can see, different. both in terms of the amounts involved and the nature of the interventions envisaged, it is different from the emergency aid system for victims which existed between 1977 and 1996. but i think that this proposal from the commission is in line with the wishes i have heard here in this house for the last three years, for example after the disasters in greece, the azores, the canary islands, france and england. we want to adopt a proposal for a regulation on 18 september, in a few days' time, specifying the conditions and procedures for implementing this assistance fund. this tight timetable shows the commission's determination to move quickly, very quickly, as you yourself, mr pat cox, have clearly expressed your wish. i would therefore like to thank the committee on budgets, its chairman, mr terry wynn, and your rapporteurs, mr colom i naval, mr guido podestà and mr göran färm, on behalf of the commission and my colleagues here, for the quality and speed of their cooperation. this support and understanding is essential as we aim to make this fund operational in the coming months. the foreign ministers, as you said, mr president, have welcomed this proposal to mr elseneur. in conclusion, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to reiterate that prevention is always more effective and less costly than repair. but sometimes, as is the case at the moment, the urgency is what counts and it is important that the european union can provide its help, its concrete solidarity with the people and regions of germany, austria, slovakia and the czech republic who have been affected. this is proof that european solidarity, which goes hand in hand with local, regional and national solidarity, is much more than a name or a phrase: it has been the foundation of cohesion policy for the last 15 years or so. it has a meaning. and today we are showing that this sense is being confirmed, is being continued and is even being strengthened. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr barnier, commissioner, and the other commission representatives, ladies and gentlemen! europe has experienced one of the worst floods in its history and we extend our condolences to the families of those who have lost their lives in this flood disaster. many people are still missing. we have seen a lot of destruction, devastation, not only in two member states of the european union - austria and germany - but also in two candidate countries - slovakia and the czech republic. on previous occasions, mr haarder, president of the council, and the commission representative, mr barnier, and also the representative of our parliament, have said that what is needed now is european solidarity. of course, the remediation of flood damage is first and foremost a regional and national task, but this is such a dramatic event that people have also been expecting a sign of solidarity from europe. i would therefore like to express my very, very warm thanks to the president of the commission, mr romano prodi, who, although he cannot be here today, was with other commission representatives in the crisis areas, for representing the european union there in a worthy manner. (applause from the centre) i thought this was very important. i have not been to the regions, i have only spoken by telephone, but many people have told me that the presence of romano prodi - and the humanity he embodies - has made them perceive the commission and europe in a very different way, rather than as the distant bureaucracy they have always thought them to be. this very personal human presence on the spot has been of great value to all of us. i was in contact with president prodi in those days and i expressed to him - i think he was in the czech republic at the time - on behalf of our group my support in so far as i could give it to him, by assuring him that if he made commitments he would have the support of our group. i would like to thank the whole commission, including commissioner barnier who has just spoken, commissioner fischler, mrs schreyer, mr verheugen, all those who have helped, but especially the danish presidency of the council, president haarder, for the openness of your government as the presidency of the council to this matter. of course, we all know that there is always a tension between solidarity and subsidiarity. but this is a case where solidarity has been challenged. if the follow-up measures are now also carried out with the same speed - and i welcome what the commissioner has said - then we as the european union have done our duty. before turning to some more specific questions, i would like to say a heartfelt word of thanks to those who helped on the ground. a lot of times in our societies, when you talk about the fire department, for example, people laugh at it because they think that these are all toys that firefighters deal with. but in a situation like this, you experience the importance of a fire department, the importance of soldiers who are involved in a national emergency, the importance of the police, the importance of civil protection. i have seen, at least in my own country, germany, how many young people have committed themselves and given help, and in a time when anonymity and selfishness often seem to prevail, it is a good sign that young people in particular are expressing this solidarity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. however, unlike the commission, we believe that €1 billion should be made available as immediate aid. i would like to express my gratitude to the six groups who agreed to this text - our group was represented by othmar karas and markus ferber - for their willingness to agree on a common text. we have already spoken of aid to agriculture, then of the efficiency reserve of the structural funds, then of course of the disaster fund which must now be created for the future, and of course there must also be flexibility with regard to the rules of competition. i am not saying that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. if we do all this quickly - and i am speaking to the chairman of the committee on budgets, mr terence wynn - then that is what people are expecting from us now. if we now hesitate and argue for weeks, we will be throwing away the goodwill that the european union, represented in particular by the president of the commission, mr romano prodi, has acquired. i therefore ask that we all take the necessary steps to follow up the action with determination and commitment. let me make a comment that is only indirectly related to this question. there are discussions about the stability pact. the stability pact must not be called into question even in such a catastrophic situation, because it is a question of confidence in the european currency, and also of confidence in the ability of the european union as a whole to perform. i therefore recommend that we - the commission, the council and parliament - do not shake this stability pact, that we do our duty towards the people affected - and now i come back to the disaster. the european union will then be much more accepted by the people than we often assume. in this sense, a hearty word of cooperation to all the institutions concerned! (applause from the centre)
- mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council! we have all watched with horror as the small and large rivers in saxony, saxony-anhalt, bavaria, the czech republic and slovakia and austria have become streams of destruction. never before has the elbe, the river that runs through my hometown of dresden, left its original bed so violently. it has destroyed a large part of the post-modern construction, new housing, it has taken everything from the young entrepreneurs - they are indebted to generations - and it has destroyed the newly renovated city centre to a large extent, really badly. i cannot find the words to describe the loss, the suffering and the despair of those affected. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that the commission is very much aware of the problems which the commission is facing. i would like to express my deepest sympathy to all of them, including on behalf of my group. i hope that this debate will really become a sign of solidarity and that there will be a disaster fund set up to show solidarity with all regions, not just a few, and that the candidate countries will be involved. locals and visitors have always had great respect for the elbe. the city has come to terms with the spring floods, but now the plans for the transeuropean networks are coming up, turning it into a fast-flowing bathtub that puts people at risk along the river. i therefore ask the commission to reconsider whether the plans it has for the development of the elbe and also for the development of the danube are still justified in the light of current experience. there is a sustainable development plan for the danube, which preserves the lowland forests. the question now is whether the commission will finance this concept alone or whether it will commit itself to financing levels of dams. the question still remains as to whether the commission will take responsibility for the plans for the elbe, which have proved inadequate. they have not yet been implemented - and that was the great good fortune, otherwise the river would have taken much more into its floods - because citizens' initiatives have so far prevented these plans from actually being realized. the question that will arise in the coming weeks is whether this will be done to preserve the important forests and their resources and thus also to conserve water, or whether the elbe will be extended. the same applies to the oder, for which similar plans exist, and the oder also has retreats and is in danger of flooding villages. the question for the commission is whether it can now come up with a new approach and review all the plans in place so that the commission too can take full responsibility here.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! i should like to thank the commission very much for the initiative it took at the end of august, starting with a visit to the affected areas and then a special commission meeting last week to set the stage for the legal basis for aid in the face of this serious disaster. i would like to mention commissioner fischler, who is a little more comfortable with the budget. the president of the management board is not only responsible for making proposals, but also for taking decisions directly through the management board. the fact that this has happened so quickly, so promptly, is a great help to those involved in agriculture. three things are necessary. firstly, we must provide immediate help. this is an expression of european solidarity. i emphasize the word "quick" and "immediately". it will not be enough for the people in the affected areas to sit in their painstakingly constructed houses and flats, to put up the christmas tree, while we are still debating legal bases, redevelopment and so on. rapid emergency aid means that we are acting as quickly as possible - we, as the epp group, are proposing supplementary budget procedure 4/2002 as a basis - so that funds of the order of eur 1 billion can be made available by the end of october at the latest. secondly, it is a question of creating the legal conditions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a whole package of legislation which must be implemented here so that european law does not prevent rapid reconstruction. thirdly, we must prepare for the future. the question is, how can we set up a disaster fund for the future? we should do this calmly and calmly, to make sure that all the conditions are met, both budgetarily and legally. if we do these three things, we will be able to help people quickly and europe will be able to live up to its responsibility for the people of europe in the long term. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. the worst flood disaster in recorded history has hit the inhabitants of the elbe and some of its tributaries, and farmers and their farms are also being hit hard. although there is no concrete damage balance sheet yet, preliminary reports from the particularly affected federal states of saxony and saxony-anhalt already suggest the enormous scale of flood damage. the flood damage to agriculture and forestry is estimated at around eur 287 million at present. in saxony alone, some 1 900 farms are directly affected by the floods, and in saxony-anhalt at least 640 farms are still affected. but the damage to village housing, rural infrastructure and river embankments is far greater. my home region, prignitz, is located directly on the elbe river. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. after all, in prignitz, residents of 38 villages had to be evacuated, and some 20,000 cattle were brought to safety from the flood - a tremendous achievement for neighborhood relief in the sparsely populated prignitz. a tremendous amount of work has been done in havelland. many thousands of volunteers have done their best to counteract the artificial flooding of havelland, despite the explosion of the polder dikes. the environmental and financial impacts will not be visible until late 2003 and 2004. i specifically ask that the 50% advance payment of the eu area premium be paid quickly. i would ask commissioner fischler to check the payment to the farms, although he is not really responsible for that. the application forms before me are written by bureaucratic hands and not by solidarity hands. so we need extra money. while special credit and guarantee schemes are helpful, many farmers no longer have the strength to take on new debt, especially since these schemes all have the characteristic of delaying their effects. as we know, the eu will not spend between 1 and 1.3 billion euros of its budget this year. i would urge you to consider whether the unused funds should not be used, instead of being reimbursed to the member states, as non-repayable grants to the farmers in all the areas seriously affected by the floods. the eu is being tested by its citizens in the way it implements its policies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i wish parliament and all of us a happy hand in this.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. i'm from saxony myself. it's very hard for me not to re-enact what happened. but two minutes of speaking time is simply not enough. on august 12th, saxony was struck by one of the worst natural disasters that this country has ever seen. to give you just one figure: on that day, in the erzgebirge, it rained 360 liters per square meter in 24 hours. i think some member states would be happy to have some of this water as rain in the summer. the swollen streams and rivers carried away everything in their path. thousands of people lost everything they owned in a matter of hours. traders and tradesmen lost not only their shops and their businesses but also all their goods and all their materials. probably 21 people paid with their lives for the flood. what's left after the water is destruction and mud. a first damage balance for the free state of saxony shows damage to infrastructure and public buildings of eur 16.5 billion. for comparison, the annual budget of the free state of saxony is about eur 15 billion. in saxony-anhalt too, we have to complain of losses of some eur 2.1 billion. i'm guessing that's not gonna be the final tally. emergency medical assistance is urgently needed. the federal government has responded. it will make available within a very short time 10 billion euros for reconstruction. but the european union is also called for. the first reactions are there. they've been well received. i would like to make it clear that the use of structural funds, the preference for measures, cannot be the only thing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i ask that this be taken into consideration. i would like to take this opportunity to thank all of you from the bottom of my heart for helping to clean up, for helping to fight the water. i would also like to ask the commission that in all its considerations of emergency aid, the czech republic and slovakia should not be forgotten. the damage there is enormous and the opportunities available to the länder are perhaps not quite as great as those we have in the german länder and austria. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. on the evening of august 12, at 6:30 p.m., my daughter bought a camera in a store in my hometown of döbelin, a city of 28,000 inhabitants. three hours later, that store was gone. the same was true of 1,425 homes in the county and 711 businesses. of course, schools, scientific institutions, especially municipal infrastructure, have been hit hard, and - i must say this clearly - the balance sheet for agriculture looks bad. it has been raised that 220,000 hectares have been flooded and that the damage to agriculture caused by the floods is considerable. mrs. fiebiger has given the figures. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis. a considerable amount of money is available from governments and the european union for first aid and rapid response. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the number is higher because, to my knowledge, regions in mecklenburg-western pomerania have now been added. it has been said that the set-aside areas have been provided and grain for fodder at low tariffs. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the situation in the community. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. because let's not kid ourselves. we are in a national emergency which will require the best efforts of the regions concerned, but which will ultimately be overburdened financially. the short, medium and long term response is therefore a joint task of these regions, national governments and the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the victims of the floods. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. as a member of parliament from a region affected by the floods, i am particularly grateful that this debate can be held here today. we're just trying to figure out how to get the money to the people who need it. this is an expression of the fact that the european union also functions as a community of solidarity. i would also like to thank president prodi for his personal visit to the affected areas. the european union is alive and we are helping. he has done a great deal to make the european union more acceptable. the citizens on the ground have seen that europe is willing to help and is alive. in preparation for today's debate, i visited some of the affected areas last week and had talks with citizens and officials. the destruction is immense and the people are desperate. but people also draw their hope for a new beginning from the overwhelming solidarity in germany and from further support also from the european union, because they cannot cope with these problems on their own. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. in addition to compensating for personal property losses, we must ensure that infrastructure is restored as quickly as possible, so that losses to businesses are kept as low as possible. i think that in addition to the provision of low-interest loans - the commissioner has already mentioned this - other measures are needed to ensure that money flows quickly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we should make these funds available at short notice. the second way of providing funds is through the structural funds. i think both options are important and right. however, in the case of the structural funds, we should bear in mind the following: the structural funds can only be implemented under the law if 50% co-financing is granted. this co-financing is entered in the budgets of the member states in annual instalments and the corresponding appropriations are committed. additional funds cannot be provided at short notice. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that if we keep this in mind, we have a great chance of helping people and gaining their trust in the european union. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. major disasters such as the one we experienced a month ago can bring a lot of sadness, fear and pain, but sometimes they also bring something good. the good thing can be that people feel that they're moving closer together, that they belong together, and that you're working together. cooperation in a common europe, especially in difficult times, is more than a lot of big words, and in this context we have seen - and i would first of all like to congratulate the commission on its approach - that this european union, which is often considered inflexible, wants to show flexibility in the allocation of funds to the structural funds, in the disbursement of aid to agriculture, in the rules for implementing the funds that europe can use. the fact that the commission has shown flexibility in its aid schemes, even where money is not flowing directly, and in its tendering rules, is a good sign that europe knows how to act when necessary. we have a job to do. the council and parliament now have to give rapid and solid help. quick help, because the levees that have been breached won't wait. we need help. but it is also a solid aid because it must be given on a permanent basis, and i say this very clearly at this point: the proposed aid fund, which we fully support, is of course not something for a few months, for a one-off event. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i say this also in view of what we have done in the budget in recent years. unfortunately, there was never enough money to really help. in principle, all that has been done is to raise hopes which cannot be fulfilled. we can't let that happen to the relief fund. this is where action must be taken. i think that other issues need to be addressed besides these acute measures. we have to deal with these matters in the committee on budgets, and we will seek close contact and close cooperation with the commission and the council to get things done as quickly as possible. we must also take account of the experience gained in formulating policy in other areas. the research framework programme must include satellite data collection for flood management or also earthquake research, because it is not just about water. it is also about earthquakes, as i recall from the azores. it is necessary to consider how binding requirements for the stability of buildings can be made. we have to think a lot about river levels and floodplains. so it's a very urgent need. it is necessary to create a solid basis for future european union aid, including financial aid, in the medium term, and to tackle preventive measures across the whole range of policies that affect us. it is only then that aid is credible, only then that it is taken seriously by the people, and only then that we do not promise more than we can actually deliver. i think it is right to thank all those who have helped here, and i hope that we will have good cooperation in the coming weeks and months in these tasks ahead of us. (applause from the centre)
- the agenda calls for the presentation by the council of the draft general budget for 2003. i now give the floor to minister haarder, who is speaking on behalf of the council.
- thank you very much, minister. it is always interesting to hear a former member of this parliament speak in his capacity as a minister.
commission. – mr president, the extended feed ban remains in force as a transitional measure until 30 june 2003. by that time, the feed ban should be reviewed. the review will take into account the forthcoming animal by-products regulation, the correct practical implementation of measures to control the feed ban, evolving scientific evidence and the availability of control methods. the commission services are already carefully examining the potential impact of different options for revising the feed ban but it is too early to predict the outcome of that exercise. the implementation of the feed ban in the member states is being monitored systematically by regular inspections carried out by the food and veterinary office. the fvo reports highlight the considerable efforts made by member states to implement the rules. however, where any weaknesses are identified specific recommendations are made after each inspection to further improve the controls. the commission has on several occasions expressed its concerns about the safe transport, storage and destruction of meat-and-bone meal. for this reason the adoption of the animal by-products regulation will be much welcomed. it creates a legal framework for the safe disposal of meat-and-bone meal by incineration, burial or landfill. it also lays down the rules for the safe use of meat-and-bone meal as fertiliser, in biogas production and in animal feeding. at present, meat-and-bone meal can only be used in pet food or in feed for animals. the new control framework created by the animal by-products regulation opens up the possibility of revising the present prohibition on the use of meat-and-bone meal. the animal by-products regulation includes provisions on channelling and traceability which will ensure that the present stocks of meat-and-bone meal cannot fraudulently be reintroduced into the feed chain. specified risk materials must already be marked as soon as they are removed from the carcasses, stored separately and finally destroyed. the commission is co-financing a research programme with two main objectives: firstly, harmonisation of the feed ban controlled by classical microscopy as well as improving its efficiency and secondly the development and validation of new methods based on alternative techniques. the commission is following the results of this research programme as well as private initiatives in this field closely and will take the results into account when reviewing the feed ban. whatever the outcome of the revision of the feed ban may be, i can assure you that the commission will not reauthorise the use of meat-and-bone meal in animal feed unless every possible risk to consumers and animals can be excluded and the provisions can be controlled properly.
- mr president, i have to go. commissioner byrne, your main argument for relaxing the feeding ban is the cost of disposing of animal by-products. now, this is more of an economic argument than an environmental argument. i am very surprised to hear this argument from you as the commissioner for consumer protection. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture and rural development. if you could give me an answer to that, i would be very grateful. i still believe that we need an absolute ban on feeding animal meal, at least until it is possible to determine the infection rate of prions responsible for causing bse and until it is possible to determine the different types of bone meal depending on the animal species. only then can we be sure that the bone meal we find in, say, poultry feed is not from poultry. (applause from the centre)
commission. - mr president, regulation no 539/2001, adopted by the council on 15 march 2001, lists the former yugoslav republic of macedonia among the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of a visa if they wish to cross the external borders of the member states. the introduction of visa-free travel for macedonians would require amendment of the regulation, which only the commission can propose, in accordance with article 67 (2) of the treaty on european union. the relevant criteria for the inclusion of a country in the list of third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas or in the list of those whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement are set out in the fifth recital in the preamble to regulation no 539/2001. these criteria relate to the extent of illegal immigration from these countries, reasons of public policy and security, external relations, regional coherence and the principle of reciprocity. these criteria are not immutable. the extent and persistence of certain developments in this or that country may lead the commission to propose amendments to the regulation. the commission is constantly trying to detect such developments and to assess exactly their relevance. to carry out this task, the commission draws on a wide range of information from a wide variety of sources, paying particular attention to data and statistics from the member states which it collects in the context of the work of certain specialised council working groups. in this context, it should be noted that the european council meeting in seville on 21 and 22 june called on the council and the commission to give absolute priority, within the framework of their respective powers, to certain measures relating to the fight against illegal immigration. these measures include the review, before the end of the year, of the list of third countries whose nationals are required to be in possession of a visa and of those which are exempt. in the context of this review exercise of the regulation, the commission will take into account all relevant information on the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia in the light of the criteria set out in recital 5 of that regulation.
- mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. my question goes back to a question and answer session with the spanish presidency, during which the spanish presidency told me that the council could not deal with the matter at all because the commission had not taken any initiative. it may be a game of ping-pong between the council and the commission - i do not know - but that is what the council told me. that's why i asked you this question. of all the successor states of the former yugoslavia, which never had a visa requirement, three have an association agreement with the eu: slovenia, croatia and macedonia. of these, macedonia is the only one with a visa requirement. neighbouring countries bulgaria and romania also have no visa requirements, despite significant security problems. that's why it would be an important signal for this country. it is a humiliation to be at such a disadvantage compared with other associated countries. it's the only associated state with a visa requirement!
mr president, i would like to ask the commission how it intends to guarantee the democratic legitimacy of the coordination of economic, social and employment policies in the sense of the lisbon process and its continuation if it rejects treaty amendments in the context of the consultation of the convention.
- mr president, i have to go. i would like to echo the words of my colleague mr harbour. in fact, i think that the legislative work in this house is not reflected in the agenda as it should be, and we are still sometimes stuck in the tradition of the 1979 resolutionitis. the epp group has had a very difficult time with this commission proposal. this is also due to the fact that there are of course very different legal traditions in competition law in the member states. we have therefore worked very hard to reach a compromise, also with the rapporteur in the committee, and i can tell the house today that the epp group is united behind this compromise - and it is identical to the report by the rapporteur from the committee on legal affairs and the internal market - and i think that is a really remarkable statement in this house for such a large group. there was not a single voice against it within the group. the compromise is that we agree with the commission's approach of introducing a regulation. we also believe that a regulation is the appropriate instrument to solve the problems we have mentioned. however, member states need a reasonable period of adjustment. that is why we have set a later date, 1 january 2005, for entry into force. mr folias spoke of the problems of small and mediumsized enterprises. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i would like to mention just two examples. the commission has already proposed that the commission should be able to take a decision on the application of the competition rules to the sale of goods at a unit price, and that the commission should be able to take a decision on the application of the competition rules to the sale of goods at a unit price. we have also ensured that the professional fees can continue to be paid without restriction. on the contrary, we have achieved a certain amount of harmonization. i think that such excesses in competition law as in germany at the beginning of the new year, when a company wanted to offer a 20% discount and was forbidden by the court, will no longer be possible. thank you very much for your attention. i do have to apologize, though. i'm sorry, but i have to go now because i have another meeting starting at 9:00 in parallel. i ask my colleagues and the commissioner to understand.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would also like to begin by thanking mr beysen, the rapporteur for the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, and congratulate him on his report. it is thanks to the good cooperation with him that we have been able to give a much needed edge to a commission proposal on sales promotion, which was initially highly controversial. advertising in the individual member states, and even more so in europe across borders, is a difficult and arduous business nowadays. you can't advertise anything without consulting your lawyer. the restrictions and prohibitions on advertising vary widely from one member state to another. if i may report from germany - mr lehne has already mentioned this - the euro-discount offered by a clothing chain was declared invalid by the courts at the beginning of the year, early risers' discounts were declared invalid by the courts, and traditional customer retention schemes such as the well-known miles-and-more schemes are prohibited under german law. the consumer is being patronized, he is being treated as ignorant, uninformed. this has to end now. i therefore welcome, as do my colleagues in the group, the commission's proposal in principle, which seeks to remedy this situation. the amendments tabled by the legal affairs committee will certainly make a major contribution to the crossborder marketing of goods and services in europe. the main changes proposed by the legal affairs committee relate to the scope of the regulation. some sensitive areas need to be excluded, in particular national advertising bans for members of regulated professions such as lawyers or notaries, and bans on the promotion of medicines. in addition, national rules may continue to apply, for example, to aggressive advertising practices or those which may lead to the development of psychological compulsion to buy. the commission has also decided to extend the scope of the regulation to include seasonal and final sales, price fixing for printed products and, last but not least, the sensitive subject of selling below the unit price. it's a good thing we didn't include that in the scope. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. i would like to agree with the rapporteur in his positive assessment of the commission's proposal for a regulation. it is precisely because the private sector is not fulfilling its responsibility to create and safeguard jobs that we need further aid to promote employment in the european union. if we take into account the mass unemployment that exists today and the different situations in the regions, then it must be said that the present regulation is really appropriate because it creates greater transparency, simplification, legal certainty, but also better comparability. this will certainly enable us to make a better judgment about the effectiveness of aid. it is very interesting that in the european union national employment policies have changed and have also been aligned with the common objectives of the employment strategy; the action plans are a lever here. however, it should be noted in this context that the current employment guidelines do not refer to the development and desired or undesired effects of employment aid. in this context, in the interests of mainstreaming and coherence of european employment policy, it is also necessary to call for the improvement of the employment guidelines. it must be clear that the contribution to the european employment strategy can be ensured from both sides - from employment policy, but also from competition policy. i think that in the proposal before us the commission rightly recognises the need for government measures in the form of employment incentives for enterprises to be allowed, particularly for certain disadvantaged groups. this is only a logical consequence of the objectives decided in lisbon. full employment is and remains one of the main objectives of the lisbon strategy, as barcelona has confirmed. we must therefore call for improvements in terms of more flexibility in the definition of eligible groups. i think that the age limit should be raised from under 25 to under 30 and the age limit should be lowered from 55 to 50 for older workers, because this society depends on both the entry of young people and the non-exit of older people. i would also like to ask that the differentiation which the commission has rightly made in its proposal - with regard to small and mediumsized enterprises and large enterprises - be taken into account when this proposal is implemented.
- mr president, i have to go. the socialist group welcomes the commission's mid-term report on the implementation of the daphne programme. the programme has proved to be extremely effective in combating violence against children, young people and women, although very little funding is available. daphne is the result of an initiative by commissioner gradin and the european parliament, and it is a great example of how much can be achieved and how much can be done to develop a new policy with a lot of personal commitment from all those involved in the programme and the implementation of the project, and with a clear political will. the daphne programme has proved difficult to limit in view of the scale of the violence. it is a taboo subject in the criminal gray area. there is no clear data. but studies show that one in three women experiences some form of gender-based violence. one in five women will be the victim of violent assault by a husband or partner. the iom estimates that 500,000 people are trafficked into the european union each year, mainly women and children. more women are threatened by female genital mutilation. we were able to support only 73 projects with daphne in 2000 and 2001, which is only 12% of the proposed projects. this led to some frustration among ngos. four million euros a year - that is not enough to move the world, and it is also likely to raise expectations which cannot be met. the important thing is that daphne has been a multidisciplinary instrument and the commission should continue to be flexible in this respect. we have, for example, the observatory on violence in dublin, which is run by the european women's lobby. there's some good information there. it has been able to obtain an overview of the measures taken, including legal instruments in the member states. synergies between the actors, but also actions at national, european and international level, can be brought together here. unfortunately, the countries of central and eastern europe are not yet sufficiently involved. only 6% of organisations have the resources to get involved in the projects. we have seen in our delegation visits to the candidate countries that there is a great need here, a great willingness, but there is a lack of resources, and this still needs to be made compatible with the ngos. it is also very important that we do not stop at the external borders of the european union. the same phenomenon is occurring in russia, ukraine, belarus, and elsewhere, and it is also affecting us in the european union. we must open up more and include other community programmes in the daphne programme. it is very important for me and my group that we build on the experience gained in the first half of daphne and increase the synergy effects in the second half. this is what paragraph 12 of the resolution says. we need to continue the campaign against violence and preventive measures. there are also excellent examples on the external borders in the form of warnings to young women. we have achieved good results with our networks, the ngos, which must now be implemented in the member states. the most important thing is how we have emphasized and repeatedly called for the european year against violence. commissioner reding, who is in charge of communications, has already signaled her commitment here. we must now also urge the convention to make it clear that, in terms of the legal basis, it is not just a matter of public health, but that internal security is at risk if violence against women does not stop.
, the council. - mr president, i should like to thank you for this opportunity to discuss this very topical subject. the debate comes at a time of growing international attention to iraq, and this is a situation which virtually all the media speculate on daily basis - including this morning, as we have all seen. it is important to emphasize that the eu and the european countries have nothing against the iraqi people. historically, iraq has contributed in many ways to the region, and the iraqi refugees living in europe today are, in most cases, making a positive contribution in the countries where they live. in 1990, however, the iraqi regime chose to invade a small and defenseless neighbor, kuwait. a broad coalition of countries from around the world came together to reject this aggression. after the international community, led by the united states, had liberated kuwait, iraq agreed to a ceasefire with a number of conditions to end the war in kuwait. the european union has also expressed its support for the efforts of the united nations to combat terrorism. as soon as the un can confirm that iraq has lived up to its obligations to destroy existing stockpiles of weapons of mass destruction and to abandon the development of new weapons of mass destruction, the sanctions can be lifted. unfortunately, over the past 12 years, the iraqi regime has chosen not to cooperate fully in the dismantling of its weapons of mass destruction and long-range missiles. in 1991 the un security council established the first commission of inquiry, unscom (united nations special commission). it was offered completely unacceptable working conditions by the iraqi regime. it culminated in 1998 when the regime refused to grant unscom further access to iraqi territory. in december 1999, the security council established a new monitoring committee, unmovic (united nations monitoring, verification and inspection committee), to replace unscom, by means of resolution 1284. but neither has unmovic been granted entry into iraq by the iraqi authorities on conditions that would enable unmovic to carry out its tasks. in recent years, the un secretary-general, kofi annan, has made a concerted effort to persuade the iraqi regime to let the weapons inspectors do their job, so that iraq can comply with the terms of the ceasefire, which has been in place for more than 10 years. so far, these efforts have been fruitless. iraq continues to make new demands and new conditions, it continues to resist giving unconditional and unhindered access to the weapons inspectors. the economic and social situation in iraq has been deteriorating ever since the gulf war. the infant mortality rate in central and southern iraq is now twice what it was before the gulf war. the nutritional status is generally worse. the school system suffers from a lack of materials, and the infrastructure and water and sewerage systems need to be renovated and expanded. iraq has gone from being a relatively rich country with economic growth to a country with a shrinking economy and a very critical humanitarian situation. the need is particularly acute for the most vulnerable groups - women, children and the poor, as well as those who do not support the regime of saddam hussein. the international community is therefore providing iraq with a very substantial amount of humanitarian aid. the eu's emergency aid programme, echo, is the largest single donor of humanitarian aid to iraq, but the un system, the international red cross and associated donors are also active in the humanitarian field. to counter the impact of sanctions on the civilian population, the oil-for-food programme has been established, allowing iraq to supplement its own food and medicine production with imports financed by the country's oil revenues. the oil-for-food programme was proposed by the security council in 1991, but due to iraqi reluctance and delay, the programme was not launched until december 1996. the un security council resolution 1409 of 14 may 2002 revised the oil-for-food programme, which was adopted by the general assembly on 1 january 2002. the proceeds of the oil-for-food programme shall be used for food, medicines and other health equipment, as well as materials and supplies for civilian purposes in iraq, including equipment for the maintenance of the oil sector. the revised oil-for-food programme allows most goods to be exported to iraq without further ado, while tightening controls on goods that could be used to manufacture weapons, including weapons of mass destruction. the international community's position on the iraq question is taken by the un security council. the un secretary-general has had several contacts with the iraqi foreign minister this year in an effort to resolve the current impasse. last contact was yesterday. however, these efforts have not yet produced any concrete results. the eu's position is clear. it was most recently expressed in a statement by the presidency on behalf of the eu on 20 may 2002. it states that 'the european union welcomes the meetings between the iraqi foreign minister and the un secretary-general with a view to finding a diplomatic solution to the issue of weapons of mass destruction in iraq based on full compliance by iraq with the security council resolutions and with its disarmament obligations. the european union reaffirms its position on the unconditional respect for un security council resolutions. it called on iraq to comply with the resolutions without delay, including in particular the return of weapons inspectors to iraq as provided for in resolution 1284. the european union fully supports all the efforts of the security council and the secretary-general of the united nations. the european union welcomes the adoption of security council resolution 1409 of 14 may 2002. it involves substantial relaxations of the un sanctions regime against iraq. the new oil-for-food programme allows iraq to import civilian goods more freely, while maintaining strict controls on dual-use products. such control is necessary in the light of the continuing concern of the international community regarding the use of such products in the wmd or conventional weapons programme. the european union calls on iraq to cooperate fully with this new framework, which should help to improve the humanitarian situation for the benefit of the iraqi people. " there has been a lot of speculation in the international press over the summer about a possible imminent american attack on iraq. the american president has said that the united states wants regime change in iraq. that is what is concrete. the president has also said that he will consult his european allies and partners. we are convinced that this will happen if necessary.
commission. – mr president, i do not simply want to repeat or parrot what the minister has just said in his comprehensive speech about what has led up to the present situation. so i will discard some of my remarks that would otherwise have been rather repetitive, which should allow even more honourable members to take part in this exceptionally important and, i think in terms of procedure, almost unique debate. over the past few weeks iraq has figured more and more prominently, as the minister just said, on the international agenda. the situation appears to be evolving day by day. what is plain, whatever else may be doubtful, is that the risk of a very grave new crisis is increasing. many important voices have been raised, not least in washington, about how to deal with iraq and with the problems linked to its possession and development of weapons of mass destruction. positions have been expressed by many key players, including european governments. i note from this morning's papers what was said only yesterday. against the background of this tumult of speeches and articles, i would like today simply to concentrate on the things we know with certainty and on which we should all be able to agree. first, as pointed out by baroness nicholson’s excellent overview of the present situation in iraq, which we discussed in this chamber last may – and i agree, incidentally, with everything the minister said about our concern for the people of iraq – we can have no doubt about the evil nature of the regime led by saddam hussein. that was made manifest in the excellent report that we discussed in may, albeit, i have to say, with slightly fewer people in attendance than is the case this morning. terrible events have occurred throughout the 23 years of his rule: wars, aggression and brutal internal repression, including the use of chemical weapons against his own people. there is, in his country, a total absence of basic human and civil rights and i have no doubt that the iraqi people would be better served by new and different leadership. indeed, i would be surprised if anybody thought that they are best served by this leadership, not just the iraqi people, but the middle east region and indeed the whole world. his is not the only regime that the world would be better off without – there are a lot of others as well – but it is certainly as high on the list as any. secondly, following the departure of un inspectors in 1998, a un security council resolution, no 1284, which the minister referred to, was adopted in december 1999, establishing a new arms inspection entity, unmovic, and setting out what iraq has to do to have un sanctions lifted. notably, it had to cooperate with the inspectors 'in all respects'. this means that iraq should give full unrestricted access to unmovic inspectors to any site, area, equipment and installation at any moment without any conditions. yet iraq never complied with this security council resolution – just as it failed to cooperate with the un throughout the 1990s – there were nine security council resolutions – either refusing entry to un inspectors, or imposing unacceptable conditions on their operations. this house has always been absolutely clear about the importance of the un in securing better global governance of our troubled planet and i do not think that you can exempt iraq from those considerations. according to the unscom report of january 1999, there are legitimate suspicions that the iraqi regime is developing weapons of mass destruction. it is not the commissioner for external relations who is saying this, unscom is saying it. at this point in time, no clear evidence has emerged, although it should be noted that the iraqi government has not facilitated the task of the unscom inspectors to gather evidence about this. whenever i think about this issue, one question crops up again and again. if the iraqi regime has nothing to hide, why do they bar access to the un-mandated inspectors? it is not an unreasonable question to ask. i think two conclusions stand out clearly, from whatever point people come to this argument and this debate, which is going to cause a great deal of passionate discussion in the next few weeks and months. first, we must continue to press for full iraqi compliance with the un resolutions. is there anybody in parliament who disagrees with that? good! (laughter)we have a consensus. the situation may not quite exist in other countries yet, but at least we can begin in this parliament with a consensus on that point. the eu presidency declaration of 20 may reaffirms european union support for united nations security resolution no 1284 and unhindered access for unmovic inspectors. second, we must recognise that efforts to force iraqi compliance are more likely to succeed if they are backed by a coalition of concerned parties as broad and effective as that which was put together with great diplomatic finesse in 1991 and which helped to secure the expulsion of iraqi armed forces from kuwait after the unprovoked invasion of that country. we should also be looking for as broad an international coalition to secure un compliance as possible. again, that seems to me to be a perfectly reasonable proposition. we must all respect the authority of the united nations and of international law. the security council has charted the way forward in dealing with this intensely difficult problem and every nation should act within the framework of the decisions and resolutions issued by the united nations. finally, the plight of iraq’s population – and this was a subject that we certainly discussed at some length on the basis of the honourable member's report back in may – has highlighted the difficulty of dealing with a regime which is as ruthless as it is reckless. since the gulf war in 1991 the ec has been the major donor of humanitarian aid to iraq. we have contributed over eur 270 million. over the last three years we have provided assistance of some eur 10 million annually. in 2002 we shall provide around eur 13 million. yet the impact of our help is reduced by the limitations placed upon it by saddam hussein’s regime. that is why we strongly welcomed unsc resolution no 1409, to which the minister referred last may and which introduced so-called 'smart sanctions' intended to limit saddam hussein’s ability to develop weapons of mass destruction while also limiting his ability to inflict hardship on his own population. meeting at elsinore last weekend, europe’s foreign ministers called for full implementation of the un resolutions and a resumption of inspections without excuses, without prevarication, without 'ifs' or 'buts'. that is obviously the best way to proceed. i would like to make a couple of personal remarks. i hope that, as the debate on how to achieve these shared objectives continues in the coming weeks, it will shed light as well as generate heat. we need to consider how we can best limit the production and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. we have to look at how we can continue successfully the international campaign against terrorism on as broad a front as possible. we have to promote the end of violence in the middle east, the restoration of a peace process and the establishment of a palestinian state living side by side in peace and security with israel. that is what foreign minister møller in the office of presidency is trying to do this week in the middle east, taking to the region a roadmap which suggests extremely convincingly what europe thinks is the way to get back to peace talks and to get away from violence. we have to prevent a gulf opening up between the democracies of europe and north america and the islamic world. we have – and this may not be popular everywhere these remarks are heard – to encourage the development of participative democracy, civil society and the rule of law in all countries, including those which comprise the arab world. we have to think constructively about what can and should justify intervention by the international community in the internal affairs of a sovereign state. we have to think equally constructively about whether the global rule book that has by and large governed our affairs for the last 50 years is still valid or whether it requires some changes, how it can be reinforced and strengthened. it is important that on all these issues, which are going to shape the sort of world we live in for the next decades, europe’s voice should be heard. (applause) i would just like to offer one last thought: it is perhaps ironic that the debate on these far-reaching issues at the beginning of a new century is triggered by the question of how we should deal with a dictator whose rule exemplifies much of what was worst in the last century. i just wish i were as certain about some of the answers to these questions as are many of those whose voices are currently raised so loud. (applause)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner patten, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the reason for this debate and the debate in the international community is the dictatorial and criminal regime of saddam hussein. the core of the evil lies in iraq, not in the united states of america. saddam hussein has already used weapons of mass destruction against his own people and against iraq's neighbours in the past, as both the president of the council and the commissioner have pointed out. he invaded kuwait. if it continues to stockpile and produce weapons of mass destruction, it is a threat to the middle east and to the entire international community. if we want to prevent war, we must prevent saddam hussein from using biological, chemical or nuclear weapons. saddam hussein is in flagrant violation of international law. it is committed to allowing un weapons inspectors to carry out unconditional and unrestricted inspections in iraq. this is our demand as the european people's party/european democrats. saddam hussein must comply with the demands of the united nations. that is why we must maintain pressure on the iraqi dictator. if we europeans disagree, he will profit from it. i am not saying that the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this encourages saddam hussein and weakens the unity and solidarity of europeans. the european union must act together to have an impact. there can be only one european way. the american president bush has promised close consultations with the allies. we call on our american friends to share all the information they have with their european allies. violence is justified only when all other means have failed. the united nations should have a monopoly on decision-making and action. military means should only be used when all other means have failed. but even in such a case, the following questions must be answered. first, will the anti-terrorist coalition that president bush has so impressively assembled after 9/11 be able to survive? secondly, what is the concept for the middle east after that? i can only emphasize what commissioner patten said, that we need a peace settlement between israel and palestine, a palestinian state, a state of israel, both living peacefully together. thirdly, what are the consequences? what are the consequences of military action for our relations with the arab and islamic world, with which we want to live in partnership and, if possible, in friendship? i know how important it is to have an answer to that question right now because i just visited saudi arabia, dubai and qatar. these questions require an answer. we must find common ground with the united states of america on these questions. in america too, these questions are being debated - not only the position of vice-president cheney, not only the position of secretary of defense rumsfeld, but also the position of secretary of state colin powell, the position of former secretary of state james baker, the position of the former security adviser to the president's father, brent skocroft. so there is no reason at all for anti-americanism in this debate, but the debate is being held in america in the same way as we are having it here in europe. the important thing is that the united states and the european union should finally agree on a common position. i ask and urge our american friends not to give in to the temptation of unilateralism, not to act alone. this is not just the question of iraq, but also the question of the treatment of the international criminal court. i also call on all parties, on all governments in the european union, not to act alone but to act as the european union as a whole acts. i would also ask our american friends to act only in conjunction with the europeans on other issues, such as kyoto, and now on this issue, iraq. i have the impression that our american friends also see their relations with europe more as bilateral relations with france, germany, the united kingdom, italy and all the other countries, rather than as a whole european union. president bush gave a very important speech in the german bundestag in berlin. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. this shows how important it is that we strengthen our dialogue with the american government! i would be very grateful if we could invite the american president to speak to the european parliament at some future date, because it was president reagan, if i remember correctly, who was the last us president to speak to the european parliament in 1986. all this would help to strengthen our relations with america, our american partners and friends. we need to strengthen our dialogue with america. we must act together to ward off the dangers posed by saddam hussein, and above all we must act together and in unity as europeans, as the states of the european union, as the european union as a whole. because if we do not agree, europe will have no influence! that is why the first priority is that we act together as the european union in the world. (applause from the right)
mr president, we certainly have a consensus here that the regime in power in iraq is undoubtedly a dictatorship, that it tramples on human rights, that it has waged criminal wars against iran, kuwait and its own people in the past, and that it has also used chemical weapons. mr haarder, it is quite remarkable to me, and not just an academic question, that you mention the war against kuwait. why don't you mention the war against iran with a much higher death toll? the answer is obvious to me. the war against iran was a war that the west was very well aware of at the time. it was the west that armed hussein, that led him to chemical weapons. the war against kuwait was one of this dictator's own making. and i say this is not an academic question because we're looking for difficult answers in a very, very complicated situation. if we want to get to the roots of wars, of aggressions, we have to ask ourselves: how do such situations come about? there is a second point of view. hussein is an unappetizing but obviously weakened military dictator. some of our allies in the fight against terrorism are not so different from him. we have a torture regime in iran that has nuclear weapons and a nuclear weapons strategy that is not very different from that of the united states. this is amazing! president bush has been courting prince bandar bin sultan, the representative of one of the most reactionary regimes on this planet, for the last week. does this not jeopardize the credibility of human rights policy, of security policy, if these are allies? i am therefore drawing a conclusion for my group: those who really want democracy, human rights and security cannot call for war to enforce them, and certainly cannot practice a power-political duplicity which makes the credibility of the declared objectives absurd. that is the crucial problem of my group's position. we are totally and under all circumstances against this war. but i welcome, for whatever reason, that the criticism of the preparations for this war has become very, very broad in this house. this is much, much more important. i would like to say, with regard to the position of the recent foreign ministers' meeting, that i have come to appreciate you very, very much here in parliament, but what i have heard from you today shows me that you are completely bound in your present position. that is unsatisfactory to me. i believe that a common european policy in this field would be a value in itself, given the dangers of the present situation. i agree with mr pöttering that it is urgently needed! i just miss her. i believe that we are facing a profound crisis of the common foreign and security policy at a key juncture in international relations. but this commonality cannot be arbitrary. i think that this requires alternatives to the us course, a unilateralism which i believe is increasingly dangerous, and also counterproductive, for the usa. to oppose him is therefore, for me, anything but anti-americanism. we believe that, firstly, this war must be rejected outright and, secondly, the inhumane and politically counterproductive embargo must be lifted, with the exception of arms exports, so that the blockade of iraq against the development of democracy can also be eased. thirdly, the un inspectors must return, but on the basis of the existing mandate. fourthly, we need multilateral cooperative relations, not unilateralism. fifthly, we must finally return to a policy of disarmament. we cannot want to disarm others by war and at the same time arm ourselves and then expect that the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction will not continue. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. in principle, what we are discussing is reducing to two different concepts. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. even if, as commissioner patten says, these need to be reformed, they are there and can be practiced in their present form. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism, and that it is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. or are we going to solve these threats on the basis of unilateralism as currently practiced by the american government? i agree with mr poettering that this process is not necessarily complete, because there is also an internal debate, but it is obvious that a majority is emerging around president bush. then the question must be asked: where are the europeans? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is not by the unilateral action of the united states of america that it will be blown up. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the united states of america, when it was an ally in the fight against islamic fundamentalism in iran, which also means that the baath party, which rules iraq, does not have the concept of islamic fundamentalism. we all know that the muslim brotherhood, persecuted in iraq, is given political asylum in europe. i am only recalling this aspect to make it clear how complicated and dangerous unilateralism becomes when it is practised. that is why the europeans, mr van orden, are united in saying no to unilateralism and yes to the application of international law. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! i would like to make a personal remark because i have worked with you for a long time and i have greatly appreciated the openness and sincerity with which you have spoken. i notice that the ten meters you jumped to those seats has punished you with speechlessness. you have not told us what happened in helsingør, but you have told us again what the spanish presidency achieved in may on this issue. that's something. i would like to answer commissioner patten's two questions. i can assure you, mr patten, that we are all in favour of the un resolutions being respected. but the un is not an à la carte institution, and we must also respect the un charter, and we must also respect international law. the un charter defines the cases in which military means are possible and permissible, and it also defines the procedure. the un has no plans for a preventive war or a war to eliminate unwanted governance, and we must take that into account. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the second question concerns the broad coalition. i can assure you that this should also be the sole objective of the european union. but the broad coalition has not been broken by us, it is being challenged by american unilateralism. i ask you: how can we restore this unity, how can we restore this broad coalition? (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i believe that the informal helsingør council made sensible decisions to go all the way to resolve this problem in a non-military way, including the enforcement of the inspectors. but the fact that we are able to bring in the inspectors, for example, is also an obligation of saddam hussein. that needs to be said clearly. we can't let him be the referee here. we need to see that there is a broad consensus that saddam hussein must go. but this can only be done after considering certain aspects. unlike my colleague sakellariou, i believe that preventive wars are permissible. but they're only allowed if there's evidence of imminent danger and that the risk is greater than if you weren't conducting a preemptive war. this evidence has not been provided to date and we therefore see no justification for it. nor is there a process of weighing whether the imposition of such a war and the ending of saddam hussein's regime will not lead to changes in other parts of the islamic world that are much riskier than if saddam hussein were to stay in business. the destruction of the anti-terrorist coalition and the imposition of fundamental regimes in so-called moderate arab countries could have very negative consequences for us europeans in particular. this must be included in a balancing process if we are to succeed. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. all of this needs to be included in a deliberative process. but we europeans can only force this process of deliberation if we europeans have a common view. this is the condition for it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe that only through this united position can we find a way to stop the americans from taking unilateral action. there is a process of discussion in the united states itself. if the united states of america knows that we europeans are united on this issue, it will be possible to enforce certain positions here accordingly. we've been taking approaches since 9/11, which may be understandable, but they're dangerous. after 11 september, article 5 of the nato treaty was mentioned but not applied, because to apply it would have meant that europeans would have been involved in joint strategic planning and decision-making. for this reason, it is also a matter of principle for us europeans whether we are able to take a position as partners and participate in the decisions, or whether we will receive the order to act when the time comes and war is to be waged. this is also an essential question for the future of the transatlantic relationship. we should try to give parliament's support to the council and the commission in adopting this common policy, because this is the best way of getting rid of saddam hussein on the one hand and of avoiding war on the other. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner! we have taken all these questions you have raised into account yesterday in our attempt to prepare a joint motion for a resolution. there was a really broad consensus on the points that we raised and that were not just about humanitarian issues and reconstruction in afghanistan, but also about other political issues. i would like to address this, specifically saying that my colleague mrs gröner will be dealing with the situation of women in afghanistan, which is a very specific point. we shall begin our joint motion for a resolution by expressing our clear condemnation of terrorism, and by expressing the view that afghanistan's troubled past has also contributed to the need for such intervention. i shall not go into this intervention further. it has been very broadly based and at least supported and justified. we believe that the role of the united nations - we are returning to the same debate we had earlier - is currently lacking. the united nations must decide not only on peacekeeping measures but also on the future of this intervention. the united nations must also define the objectives of this intervention, the time needed and also say when this intervention will end. we believe that the moral justification we had for this intervention must also apply to the treatment of prisoners of war, whether they are inside afghanistan or outside afghanistan in guantanamo. these prisoners deserve to be treated as required by international law and conventions. we believe that the international community has a great responsibility to investigate and assess the human rights violations reported by un agencies in northern afghanistan, particularly in the region of dasht-e-leily. i would say to mr wurtz, who spoke earlier, that we are very clear here in demanding that the united nations carry out an investigation and that those responsible, if found, be brought to justice. i regret, mr wurtz, that your group cannot co-sign this resolution, but you can vote in favour.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council! the european union has played a very positive role in the democratization of afghanistan! the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome one. in 1998, on international women's day, european women launched the campaign 'a flower for the women of kabul' to denounce the human rights violations that excluded women, especially from education, medical care, work and political participation. it took another six years of taliban rule before democracy appeared on the horizon. the international anti-terrorist alliance then put an end to the taliban's specter. movements for democratization were launched immediately, and the eu again played a positive role in bonn on petersberg. almost unnoticed, but in parallel, the first afghan women's summit, hosted by european women, was held in brussels. here, afghan women, afghan women in exile and afghan women from afghanistan, after two decades of political abstinence, had the opportunity for the first time to give themselves a forum to find themselves. international pressure has led to women being admitted to the loya jirga and then to a seat in the new transitional government. we have, in the meantime, made sure that funds were allocated to the budget to help women overcome this great need to catch up, and to be able to support self-help organizations like rawa again from the budget. we are alarmed to hear reports that the first schools for girls are being closed again, that fundamentalists want to push women back out of public life and that the political influence of women ministers is being curtailed. we must now use all our political influence to prevent the situation for women from worsening further and to ensure that the aid reaches and is distributed to women in rural areas, above all. we had taken the initiative, together with the women of the council of europe, to set up a multinational group of observers to ensure that the aid reached the women. i think it needs some work. i therefore urge the commission to continue to focus on the situation of women and to call for the fight against the main problems of poverty and illiteracy among women. i think the focus now -- even though the world's public is turning to other issues -- has to stay on afghanistan, we have to be there. my group, the socialist group, will send a delegation to afghanistan, and i also expect the commission's support here, logistical assistance. a war in iraq would ruin a lot of things. we must therefore make every effort to contribute to peace in the region. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. first of all, i am pleased that, in addition to the spectators who are following the debate, there are diplomats from the people's republic of china and representatives of the freely elected taiwanese parliament in the gallery. i think it's great that both sides of the strait are watching our debate today. mr commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the epp group, i would like to say that we very much welcome your statements on the preparations for the fourth asem process. i think your statements are impressive proof that both the council and the commission have prepared asem iv with care and dedication. but my group is asking - and i ask you to give us more details - that the heads of state or government, given the abundance of subjects to be discussed, and the president-in-office of the council has addressed the abundance of subjects, that there be concrete actions with concrete timetables and concrete objectives. it is not enough, as in asem iii, to discuss all the problems in the world, from the economy to culture, politics and education, because afterwards the citizens ask: what has come out? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i would like to draw attention to three of the many issues that have been raised, and i believe that we in the european parliament want the european and asian leaders to produce concrete results. firstly, the beginning of a special process of rapprochement between the two cultures. it is particularly in the face of the anniversary of the terrible events of 11 september that europe and asia, with all their historical, cultural and religious differences, must define and draw conclusions from what is common, what links europe and asia for coexistence and peace in the world. we expect a concrete starting point in this political-cultural dialogue. secondly, as bertel haarder will understand very well as a dane, when it comes to terrorism, there is a very specific point where we want something very concrete, namely to combat terrorism at sea. our ships between asia and europe are repeatedly attacked by pirates in certain straits. we cannot make it clear to our people that we are capable of fighting terrorism all over the world, but we seem incapable of facing terrorists in the straits who endanger the crew of our ships and take their lives! thirdly, the problem of migration. in the president of the council, who is responsible not only for european policy but also for immigration, we have a good partner who will ensure that there are actually concrete decisions in the course of asem iv on how to cooperate better in combating illegal migration between asia and europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to emphasize five points for the sake of time. commissioner patten, you have indicated that the question of enlargement of the members of the asia process is subject to the principle of consensus. but you have quite rightly understood that we as a parliament want to encourage you to talk to your asian partners at asem iv in preparation for the hanoi conference. it's about the motto "we're going to expand from 15 to 20 states". we europeans attach great importance to asia's focus on integrating countries such as india and taiwan into the asian process. you yourself have pointed out the special role played by india and taiwan. i think that these two countries should be pushed by us, so to speak, to be accepted. you have already stated your political commitment to the human rights dialogue, and we fully support you in this. i believe that the human rights dialogue that has just begun with the people's republic of china has shown that both sides now take the view that human rights are universal. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the human rights situation in the middle east, but that we should be concerned about the situation in the middle east. i think that we should continue the dialogue in this spirit. we should also, mr president of the council and mr commissioner, perhaps as europe, play a little more a part in preventing and resolving conflicts in asia. regional security is a crucial issue for the whole world. we should therefore constructively support the political dialogue between the people's republic of china and taiwan on the basis of democracy, the right of peoples to self-determination, respect for human rights and the rule of law. we should also try to play a role in de-escalating tensions between india and pakistan. this is a particular point of protection for cultural minorities, but also for the protection of christian minorities in the region. we are very grateful to you, mr commissioner, dear chris patten, for your reference to the rapid opening of the delegations in malaysia, singapore, taiwan, cambodia, laos and nepal. this is a long-held wish of the european parliament. it is a continent which has half the world's population and we must be more represented there. we're with you on that. in conclusion, let me make a slightly critical remark: we are discussing today the great importance of asia and europe, the relationship between the two continents. but if i am not completely mistaken, there will be a meeting soon, also in september, a summit between the european union and china, scheduled for one day. i have to ask myself whether the heads of state or government should not take more than a day to engage in a really in-depth dialogue with the people's republic of china. i think that, given the importance of the country and the continent, it would be appropriate. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative. however, there are a few problems: first, if you're thinking about europe and asia, you have to include russia. all the issues directly concern russian interests as a great eurasian power. this was made clear only recently in the korean question. the north korean president's trip to siberia and the plans to build a railway link across north and south korea are both worthy of attention. on the other hand, if we look at the problem more through the darkened lens of the united states, without properly involving russia and china, it will be difficult to achieve a peaceful, fair solution to the problems at hand. secondly, an asian policy which does not take due account of the shanghai group and its place in the political events of the eurasian region is ignorant of the realities. we must decide where central asia, for example, should be placed and how we should respond to the new geostrategic situation in this region in the light of the us strategy for eurasia. at the end of the cold war, there was a glimmer of hope for a peaceful world, but sadly, that hope is fading fast. thirdly, the european union states have long overlooked or underestimated developments in asia and still maintain a one-sided, sometimes restricted view. the commissioner pointed out that the report's mention of india and taiwan in the same breath was a departure from reality. i think that is a political mistake which does not take proper account of the realities. real politics is always about interests, and the eu does well to balance its own well-understood interests with those of its partners.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to congratulate the presidency on the ambitious programme for the asia summit in copenhagen. i am particularly pleased that the dialogue on culture and civilization is a focus of its own, because it is very important to communicate in this context at this time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must learn to understand that the asian countries are not just competitors in the economic or trade sphere, but that they are really very important partners. the report by mr maaten and the commission's communication make it very clear that the strategic framework must also set priorities for political and strategic cooperation. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, and it is not only a political union, but also a political union. it is very important that asia and europe stand up for a multipolar world. this cannot be stressed enough in this time of conflict - and of the problems and challenges that lie ahead. the european parliament can certainly play an important role in this respect with these reports and debates, and the asep summits could also underline this. i think it's really important. i would also like to stress that the principle of détente, change through rapprochement should also play a role in the weighting of human rights and democratic issues. what have we achieved in europe with this policy? why shouldn't that be a lever for the work in asia? i think it is good that we are working with the asians in the asean regional forum in this way, and that is also true in other areas of stability. i would like to make one more appeal. it is certainly also about the cooperation of non-governmental organizations. it is certainly also about the new relationship based on equality, partnership and mutual understanding. but where do we go from here if this is confined to the heads of government, the business community or even the parliaments? we must involve the youth of these continents. i would also like to encourage the danish presidency to do even more for the euro-asian summer schools, to do even more for mutual understanding between the young people of asia and europe.
- the next item is the report (a5-0226/2002) by mrs stenzel, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, on the annual report on the european agency for reconstruction (2001/2255 (ini)).
commission. – mr president, firstly i would like to thank mrs stenzel on behalf of the commission for her report on the european agency for reconstruction. it is a thorough and thought-provoking report which raises important questions. my colleague, mr patten, discussed it with some of you at the meeting in strasbourg on 2 july and circulated an information note in june which i hope covered many of the concerns of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. mr patten has promised to present a report outlining the future implementation of assistance before the end of 2003. this will form the basis of the recommendations which the commission is required to submit by 30 june 2004 under the european agency for reconstruction regulation. today i will outline some preliminary thoughts, but first allow me a few comments on some specific points in the report. i am pleased that the report so clearly acknowledges the efficiency and high delivery capacity of the european agency for reconstruction. the agency is indeed a success story. it is doing an extraordinary job in channelling community assistance to the former republic of yugoslavia and former yugoslav republic of macedonia. in this context, i would also like to highlight the success of the deconcentration to commission delegations. this has, for example, been a major factor in the successful implementation of the european community assistance in bosnia and herzegovina. the commission endorses many of the observations in the report. we strongly agree, for example, with parliament's suggestion that we need to focus increasingly on institution and capacity building. that is certainly our approach. a large percentage of the overall assistance is allocated to institution building and it is increasing all the time. the country strategy papers and the multiannual indicative programmes allow for some flexibility and do not need to be revised for these transitions. mr swoboda mentioned the issue of illegal immigration and the balkan routes and we have made it very clear that we need a regional approach to fight illegal immigration and organised crime in south-east europe. under the swedish presidency we organised the first meeting of the five countries in the region, because without regional cooperation we will not succeed. some member states have developed a liaison officers' network and we have been cooperating with border guards and police forces in the region and that has definitely improved the situation although it is still far from resolved. the shift i have mentioned above applies to the countries with deconcentrated delegations, as well as those where the agency is operating. there is no reason to think that the agency will handle institution-building programmes any less successfully than it has physical reconstruction. the legal base for the agency is perfectly adequate and does not need to be amended. nor do we want to change its successful brand name, even if the focus is no longer principally reconstruction. the report suggests that if the territorial competence of the agency were to be extended its regulations should be modified. the decision to extend the agency's mandate to the whole of the former republic of yugoslavia and to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia was taken because of exceptional circumstances. we do not see a need to extend the agency's territorial competence further. in the report you emphasise the need for coordination. we share this view. it is an absolute necessity to ensure that our assistance brings the highest added value possible. we are therefore pleased to note the systematic and extensive coordination already taking place between commission services and between actors on the ground. from previous debates, i know that you want to discuss the broader issue of the future of assistance to the western balkans and its organisational aspects, including the competences of the european community delegations and the agency. our preliminary thoughts are as follows. there is no reason to assume that the coexistence of the agency and the commission delegation in the same country leads to an overlap. the political role and the status of all delegations in the region are identical, beyond assistance implementation. they are focused on developing the political and institutional relationship with the european union. as each country moves further into the stabilisation and association process, we will have to evaluate whether support for the process of bringing the countries up to european standards needs to be completely integrated with the political work of the delegations. this question will be at the heart of the decision on the future of the agency. but we cannot give a clear answer at this point. above all, we do not believe it will be to the region's benefit to dismantle recently established arrangements which are working well. administrative and institutional tidiness must not impede our primary objective of achieving real change on the ground. however, we clearly need to keep our options open and be ready to change how we deliver aid, when there are clear benefits in doing so. the commission will ensure that these decisions are taken on the basis of what is most effective in achieving the four objectives: more focus on quality, speedier implementation according to the highest standards of management, visibility, and above all the impact of our programmes on the ground. parliament's views will be invaluable in developing the arrangements that best suit the needs of the region and the strategic ambition for its closer integration into the european union.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- doc. a5-0241/2002 by mr coelho, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the third report from the commission on citizenship of the union (com (2001) 506 - c5-0656/2001 - 2001/2279 (cos)).
- mr president, i have to go. i have said here in this house five times in the last few years - say since 1996 - that animal feed must not be the garbage can into which all the dirt is dumped cheaply. it is surprising to find that with such a simple sentence you never lose the relevance and do not bore yourself or others, because it remains relevant. what's the reason? it is, of course, our agricultural policy. if we try to produce everything as cheaply as possible, it is only worthwhile to produce the cheapest possible animal feed. i once said that manufacturers and we ourselves should imagine putting animal feed on a plate and having a knife and fork right and left of it, what that would look like. mr bowis has just pointed out that we are dealing with negligence, but also with criminal energy. that's right! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fisheries policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new species. i don't know what motivates people to do or even approve of such things. what if a waste disposal company simultaneously produces glucose syrup? is it not the case that we should perhaps be suspicious if an irish company wants to dispose of its waste, which is not to be objected to, but does so in belgium and the waste disposer is at the same time producing glucose syrup? the waste he disposes of is washed-off coats of birth control pills, which are naturally sugary. none of us noticed that, and none of us thought it was strange! if it does show up in a check-up, it's a big deal. if we don't start changing the system, we're gonna have this discussion here at least three times a year. so, what do we change about the system? mr byrne has thankfully pointed out a number of points. yes, we need strict legislation on food hygiene. yes, we have to separate animal and plant-based food production. yes, we need stricter authorization for feed manufacturers, a registration procedure for the factories that produce feed. yes, every feed manufacturer must have a biochemist on site, and do so at all times, not outsourced elsewhere. these are all trivial things that we could all take for granted. what about the waste legislation? yes, there is proper waste legislation. are they properly monitored by the member states? obviously, neither the sending country nor the receiving country controls it. will the commission go to the european court of justice more quickly? will countries that are clearly in breach of their obligation to monitor existing legislation be more quickly prosecuted and also be subject to penalties? what is the situation with the controls in the member states? we have found since bse that the biggest bermuda triangle in this european union is the control systems in the member countries. let us force all the member states to make this more transparent, to tell us how many controllers control what, when, where and with what result, simply on one page of paper, transparent, publicly available to everyone, from me also on the internet! is that too much to ask? no, that's not too much to ask! we have been saying for many years - since 1996 - that we want a positive list of ingredients and additives in animal feed. mr byrne said that we are now at the stage where we can start the review. i'm grateful for that. but if we do not all realise that we have always turned a blind eye to cheap animal feed and cheap meat production, then we will continue to provide incentives for all waste, all sorts of waste that is no longer usable anywhere to be put into animal feed. that is why we must have quality standards for animal feed. we need to have other controls on the animal protein product. but we must also think about ourselves as consumers, how we consume, what we consume and what we are willing to pay for products. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. there are undoubtedly a number of weaknesses in food control, and this puts food safety in a corner where it does not belong. the recast of the food directive can help to change this situation decisively. this is especially necessary because of the growing worldwide trend toward artificial food production. the controls in the value chain are not currently consistent and the perception of government controls on foodstuffs needs to be strengthened. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's foodstuffs are not used in the same way as the community's foodstuffs. this will not be easy, since the attitude of those responsible in this chain is very strong. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. for all products on the market, breaches of health rules cannot be declared as a production accident by silent or open buy-back campaigns with the prospect of being forgotten. the past shows that the demand for a ruthless resolution of the matter as soon as possible is difficult or impossible to achieve. the report also calls for the establishment of a european health insurance system. in mecklenburg-western pomerania 320 establishments were closed due to suspicion of nitro-furnace. the discovery and the enlightenment are not measured by mass, but by class.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. so, i'm of the view that security cannot be controlled, it must be produced. i think today in this debate on food safety, we haven't made that much progress in the last few years. producers and consumers have the same goal, they're in the same boat. it is not just consumers who are affected, but producers themselves. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but the weakest link in the chain is always the farmers, the producers, who are the ones who are the victims of the price situation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of the products is not compromised. i am currently working as rapporteur on the subject of 'additives in feedingstuffs'. i am sure that i agree with you, commissioner, that we are setting very strict measures here for a wide variety of additives. we're talking about antibiotics, which are coccidiostats. i just got off the phone with the staff at your house. but as a practitioner, i am of the opinion that we have already regulated things sufficiently on paper, but in practice, in implementation, in control, we will - as i regret it - continue to have to deal with black sheep in the future. we can only move forward in this matter if we apply much tougher sanctions in the control system. anybody who does dirty work there is a pranger. he should have his concession revoked. we have to shut down the plant. it is only if you show your support here that we can exert pressure so that we can finally return to a sensible situation in the european union, so that producers and consumers can really feel safe and the high quality of food we have will be maintained in the future. i would support mrs roth-behrendt's wishes in every way, but we have been talking about the willingness to spend more money on this for 20 years, only the distribution process is quite different. many in the population - and this too should be said in all honesty - cannot afford it. they want everything. they don't just want to eat and drink, they want to go on vacation and travel and, and, and.... that's why we have food that's almost zero cost.
- mr president, i have to go. commissioner byrne, feed is food and we need the positive list. you were quoted in the german press as saying that there were thousands of substances to be tested. i hope that was a wrong quote, because if we had thousands of substances that were going into animal feed, that would be a scandal. this is something that can be limited and should be restricted. if the industry can then look back and say that it has forgotten a substance and immediately submits the test, then it can be added. it is true, of course, that the positive list does not take away all our worries. if there are people who are dumping toxic substances that need to be destroyed in food because it is cheaper, then this is evidence of criminal energy and must be punished accordingly. but this also leads me to think - and we are all agreed on this in the house - that a ban alone is not enough, but we must see what substance we are banning and where it is going to stay. mrs roth-behrendt has pointed out that waste legislation is closely linked to controls and must be linked to what we are discussing here, so that there is no overlapping. we have seen time and again that substances which should have been destroyed ended up in food. but we should not throw out the child with the bath, i say that to the president. we just saw that with the leftovers. we must also come to a sensible recycling where it is sensible. i was at a dog and cat food factory yesterday. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. (applause from the centre)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. food is produced to a high standard and with a wide range of requirements. they are offered in a wide variety, including from a wide range of countries outside the european union. the first principle must remain that our food is safe and of high quality, so that consumer protection is guaranteed. they are the most basic prerequisites for human health and quality of life. nevertheless, the scandals of the past are causing great anxiety and fear among consumers. i think it is irresponsible, for example, for dishonest pharmaceutical companies to dump hormone products in food and feed and use them as living waste bins for consumers. if even sugar syrup and soft drinks contain metroxyprogesterone acetate, i am absolutely disgusted by it! what legal steps have been taken, commissioner, to prevent this from happening in the future? i welcome the new food safety authority as an early warning system in europe and thus an efficient, coordinated crisis management between the commission and the member states. i am concerned that the controls in the european union are working. the network will be expanded to provide better information and the obligation for companies to report will be introduced as soon as possible to ensure that goods and products are withdrawn from the market if they are harmful. what has the commission done in the meantime to implement this, to ensure greater transparency and traceability? we want consumer protection, including import protection! i therefore feel it is very urgent that food control systems should be introduced as soon as possible in the countries of central and eastern europe, including those where food is already produced in accordance with european standards. but in order to allow the consumer to choose what he wants to eat, we must ensure that we have a practical and understandable labelling system for both conventionally produced food and genetically modified food. i believe we must set the course as soon as possible.
- madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. creating a lifelong learning area means taking active action to guarantee equal opportunities for all groups of the population. realistically, the european union cannot do this alone, if we see that 1% of the budget is invested in culture and education. that too would have to change. in addition, there is often a small-minded fear on the part of the member states, for example the german länder, where cultural sovereignty is at stake, where they see their cultural sovereignty threatened when europe expresses itself on education policy. the results of the pisa study should have been an eye-opener. excellent results for finland with its lifelong learning approach, germany with its performance approach in initial education, which often paves the way for people to continue their education. so let's learn from each other. let us design training plans for new developments in the economy for the electronic revolution. let's build learning centers. the rapporteur has proposed individual learning accounts. the exchange of information and experience is the key issue. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the needs of the developing countries. that's what we need to develop. we must make our services targeted to certain groups, for example, women after a family phase, single parents with childcare facilities, migrant workers, people in rural areas. the commission and the member states should coordinate their efforts to ensure that the gender mainstreaming approach is given a high priority, particularly in lifelong learning. all instruments should also be used, for example, investment bank loans, to expand education systems, to build a modern, efficient education system. embedding the informal system, accelerating the process of adult political education, that's what we need, a new culture of learning that secures sustainable development of the most precious resource we have, people and spirit.
- mr president, i have to go. although bavaria, saxony and austria were also hit hard by the floods, i had the chance, as the head of the sudeten german national team, to lead a major relief operation for the czech republic, not only because of traditional ties to the country from which our families come, but because in such situations you realize that as neighbours we depend on each other for prosperity and ruin. sometimes neighbors have problems with each other, but it is in such emergencies that the value of neighborly help is also shown. czechs were deployed in germany and austria, austrians and germans were deployed in the czech republic, and i think two things are important: firstly, no flood victim in the candidate country, the czech republic, should be put in a worse position than a flood victim in the present member states of the european union. secondly, we must also be solidarity-oriented in the prevention of such events. we must realize that we are in the same boat and that what has happened today in central europe can happen again tomorrow in southern europe or northern europe and that we should above all dispense with something that i have heard in this house before, namely that it has been spoken of in a slightly contemptuous way when we have been dealing with the flood victims in the south in the urgency debate. then many in the north said that this was typical of the interests of the south, and vice versa. we europeans are sitting here in a boat, and that is the message of this disaster.
- mr president, i have to go. i have to say that i might want to put a different emphasis than many have in the afghanistan debate. i am very pessimistic, because i have a very strong feeling that we are heading for a new crisis. in afghanistan, which is a multiethnic state, the largest ethnic group, the pashtuns, feel increasingly - rightly or wrongly, i do not know - that they are being pushed back by the peoples who lead the northern alliance, such as the tajiks and uzbeks, and from this feeling there is increasingly a potential for conflict, which the remnants of the taliban are exploiting. the taliban's retreat in eastern afghanistan is being talked about as if it were a military or police problem. it is unfortunately a problem of nationality, because the largest people in this multinational state feel, as i said, that they are only a second-class people, and this is something which in the long run carries with it explosive dangers. so we need a smart strategy for afghanistan to really integrate all ethnic groups in a fairly even way, which is obviously not the case so far. despite all the humanitarian successes, despite all the progress on paper, there is a ticking time bomb here.
- i'm sorry, mr. fatuzzo is not here today. looks like i'm replacing him. but i'm really concerned about the cause here. i would like to say to mrs stenzel that i congratulate her very much on this report. i am glad that we adopted it today, because on 15 september there are elections in macedonia. it is about the democratic stability of this important country, to which we are now linked by an association agreement. the country has experienced a wave of displacement. it has experienced war twice within its borders, many disasters, now terrorism. that is why it is very important that we send a signal to macedonia today that we are behind this young democracy, which has managed in an amazing way to bring about a balance between the nationalities in these last four years, when there have been several major disasters. although there is still much that is not gold that shines, when you see the conditions in the surrounding area, you have to say that the macedonians have done amazing things, they deserve our solidarity. such a sign could also be that we are finally abolishing the visa requirement for macedonia. yugoslavia never had one, croatia does not, slovenia does not, macedonia is the only associated country with a visa requirement. we should finally accept this small country as a true european partner.
- mr president, i have to go. ibn khaldun was one of the great historical figures who illustrate how much we europeans owe to the arab-islamic world. we have therefore an obligation to stand up for the man, professor ibrahim, who has set himself in the tradition of ibn khaldun, and we must make it clear - and this is also something we owe to ibn khaldun's legacy, so to speak - that there are not two concepts of human rights, one european and one egyptian, but there is a common concept of human rights, which has also grown up together culturally and historically and today claims universal validity. that is why we owe it to both professor ibrahim and the egyptian people to get involved! first, for the release of professor ibrahim, second, for help for professor ibrahim, who is in a bad state of health. thirdly, we must also make a clear commitment to close cooperation between egypt and the european union. egypt is one of our most important partners in the mediterranean. egypt, and this is particularly evident in the present political crisis, is our most important ally in the islamic world, along with morocco and turkey in the mediterranean. it is precisely because egypt is a partner and an ally and not a debtor state or a state with which we want nothing to do, precisely because egypt is an important ally, that we are obliged to speak a clear language against egypt, as is customary among friends, to stand up for persecuted minorities, to stand up for persecuted people and, above all, to stand up for the forces within the egyptian state and within the egyptian government that want to strengthen human rights and not demolish them. egypt has a great tradition here - i witnessed it when anwar el sadat spoke here in the house, when president mubarak spoke. these are important partners, and i think we should move forward on this path and stand up for professor ibrahim! (applause from the centre)
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the events in zimbabwe are indeed a tragedy without equal. in his speech in johannesburg, mugabe made the unspeakable claim that this practice, which denies the rule of law, is also a contribution to sustainable development. that's the most audacious thing you can say. in fact, one would wish that the voices in sub-saharan africa would be louder to expose this for what it is, namely a power struggle by someone who has not succeeded in twenty years, until he was challenged as a person, to push for land reform that could have been shaped by the rule of law. it was only when the very existence of the regime itself was threatened that these measures were taken. they are directed - and this must be emphasized again and again - partly against the white farmers, but above all against the opposition in the country, which has managed to achieve a very significant result in the parliamentary elections despite all the repression and, of course, has strong support within the population. this is the actual background. i would like to quote a few statements from the south african newspaper, the daily newspaper, because it is one of the voices that are ultimately our allies there, which is important. she criticizes the method of reforming the country by the mugabe government as brutal, as a method that stops production and is therefore useless. she points out that mugabe is trying to spread a misconception by claiming that all zimbabweans are behind him. we know that there is a strong opposition and that he is therefore not entitled to say - i quote - 'my zimbabweans and my zimbabwe' without thinking of the many opponents and that he gives the wrong impression when he claims that zimbabwe is his property, so to speak. but he is, i hear, in the process of transferring property to his own family, so that the land grab is also being misused to consider family members accordingly. as i said, the european union should also be prepared to support legal land reform, but not to support such machinations. we must also make this clear to the partner countries.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. mr president, i would like to thank mr junker for his report. i'm afraid i'm beginning to think that this kind of talk is contagious. i hope that the immoderate performance of namibian president nujoma in johannesburg on the same day will not have political consequences in namibia itself. meanwhile, the politicization of food aid in zimbabwe continues. corn is only distributed to party members, church food stores are stormed by so-called war veterans, the church is forbidden to distribute on the grounds that it creates parallel structures. what do we have to do? we have to do what we decided. in concrete terms, i expect that the zimbabwean foreign minister will not be invited to the eu-sadec foreign ministers' meeting in copenhagen in november, and we must make it clear to our partners in southern africa that european money will not finance an african renaissance and a new programme for african development, nepad, for mugabe and those who support him politically. after mugabe and under the rule of law, we should also be contributing financially to zimbabwe's reconstruction and land reform - not now. if the neighbours are exerting pressure in their own interests, because they are themselves suffering from the effects of mugabe's policy, such as the flows of refugees into neighbouring countries, then we should also help them to house the refugees, but not now. we should make our policy very clear and put pressure on our council of ministers here too, because i have the impression that it is not really a priority, as has already been said by other colleagues, and it was not said so clearly in johannesburg in relation to mr mugabe. i therefore hope that we will at least take a similarly firm stance on the november meeting in copenhagen. the partners in southern africa must then decide for themselves whether they wish to show solidarity with mr mugabe or rather with the people of zimbabwe and engage with us in dialogue to overcome these conditions. (applause from the centre)
- i call mr posselt to speak on a point of order.
- mr president, i have to go. just for a second. the point is that we were told in the corbett rules of procedure reform, which came into force for the first time today in this emergency session, that we would reduce the urgency from three hours to two hours to free up the two hours for legislative work. that was the official explanation. after seeing today's agenda, i have to say that this legislative work is apparently taking place in secret. i would like to emphasize that i am happy to give something away, but not if the other person throws it away, that is to say, to give two hours for legislative work, which i accept, but then legislative work must also take place here on thursday afternoons. if that does not happen, i would ask that the two hours be returned to us for emergencies.
commission. – i know zimbabwe reasonably well. when i was my own country's overseas development minister in the 1980s i visited zimbabwe frequently in the years after its independence. i recall the hope with which zimbabwe set out on its own road as a sovereign country and how blessed it had been by the almighty with food and other resources. i can remember, for example, during a famine in mozambique, purchasing food aid in zimbabwe for dispersal in mozambique. recalling all that it makes me even more sad when i look at the situation in zimbabwe today. the commission has, as parliament knows, suspended official development assistance to zimbabwe since early 2002. we remain deeply concerned regarding the grave deterioration of the human rights situation in the country. the international crisis group, which is an admirable organisation that reports regularly on trouble spots around the world, recently described zimbabwe as a country in freefall. that is no exaggeration of the position. we, in the commission, will contribute to support any peer pressure that heads of state in africa, and southern africa in particular, may put on the zimbabwe government to respect the essential elements of the cotonou agreement, such as human rights, the rule of law and democracy. i have to say in passing, and this is not irrelevant to the points made by mr van orden, that i wish we had recently seen more evidence of that sort of peer pressure in southern africa. the political situation in the run-up to the local elections due this september continues to be tense, and the deadline for eviction orders for 2 900 white farmers to leave their properties expired on 8 august 2002. the commission is therefore continuing to contribute to projects which directly support the population in the field of democratisation, respect for human rights and the rule of law, and the european initiative for democracy and human rights includes zimbabwe as a focal country. the food crisis in zimbabwe is the worst in southern africa. there are credible reports of extensive politicisation of the government of zimbabwe’s own food supplies. i am sure many members of parliament will have seen reports of zanu-pf supporters saying to the people of zimbabwe that only fools starve. in other words, they have to subscribe to a set of political views in order to get fed. the commission deplores this. the commission, for its part, has responded with an estimated 110 000 tonnes of food aid, for a global allocation of about eur 3.5 million. the food is largely being distributed through the world food programme and the ngos, with extensive involvement of local communities to identify needy groups. an initial eur 2 million was provided through our humanitarian organisation, echo, for vulnerable groups, particularly children and farm workers. a sizeable part of the humanitarian financing decision to be taken shortly for eur 30 million for the region will go to respond to the emergency in zimbabwe including monitoring needs and food aid distribution. an additional regional allocation of eur 30 million within the 2002 programme of cooperation with the world food programme will provide food aid assistance in the region, in particular in zimbabwe. the commission believes that sadc has a leading role to play in the resolution of the increasingly serious zimbabwe crisis. the union will seek to ensure an enhanced dialogue with sadc, in particular during the forthcoming ministerial conference in copenhagen in november. it is planned to raise the issue of zimbabwe as a specific point on the agenda. parliament will know of the targeted sanctions that we have introduced – sanctions which are focused on the leading members of this particularly nasty and deeply corrupt regime, on their travel and on their assets. it is important, as some members have pointed out, that we should do everything possible to make those sanctions stick. i will certainly report the views of parliament to member states on this particular point. i would also like to draw the attention of parliament to the recent report of the expert panel established by the security council on the rape and pillage of the assets of the democratic republic of congo and, in particular, to what is said there about zimbabwe's role in that systematic pillage. the report itself makes extremely disturbing reading. the report is, in my judgement, something which the international community has to make plain that it intends to do something about. president mugabe and his cronies have wrecked a once prosperous and once stable country. their record is a deplorable blot on the history of southern africa. the sooner zimbabwe is rid of them the better for that wonderful country and the better for its people. (applause)
- thank you very much, commissioner patten. the debate is closed.
- there's no doubt you were there, mrs schierhuber. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12.30 p.m.
- i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 4.25 p.m.) documents received - submission to committees - authorization to draw up own-initiative reports - cooperation between parliamentary committees - statements entered in the register (rule 51) - transmission of texts adopted at this part-session - schedule of next part-sessions: see minutes.
- mr president, i have to go. i can add to what my colleagues van hulten and swoboda have said because last week, at the request of a british journalist who wanted to interview me, i had the opportunity to read this report by the commission on disciplinary measures. it may be of interest to some of the colleagues in the house that this journalist was a former assistant to mr heaton-harris. i have only one point to add to what hannes swoboda and michel van hulten have said: chris heaton-harris has just asked what the commission intends to do to inform the law enforcement authorities. the same question was asked of me by the journalist. i then replied by asking if it was not the case in all european countries, at least in my own country, that the law enforcement authorities and the corresponding courts first decide when prosecuting criminal offences and then the disciplinary proceedings take place. i wonder if mr heaton-harris has reproduced the order correctly. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. i would just like to say to my colleague on the left of the house that the european union is completely neutral when it comes to privatisation. but one thing is historically true: workers' rights have never been more enslaved than in the states where everything was nationalized. that's the lesson of the 20th century! (applause from the right)
- mr president, i have to go. we have had a very intensive discussion here on embryo protection in the context of the sixth research framework programme. at that time there was a lot of pressure on the ethicists, saying that as important as the issue was, it should not lead to blocking this important research programme, of which embryo protection is only a tiny part. we now have a situation where exactly those people who said that at the time are trying to block the entire research framework programme because a qualified minority in the council, which is a legal instrument, is trying to enforce ethical principles which we should have established at an early stage. i would like to ask how mr westendorp is entitled to go around and say on behalf of parliament that we want a budgetary reserve for the whole programme or for parts of the programme. i do not recall that we ever made such a decision in plenary. i would also ask that in the trilogue with the council tomorrow we do not discuss matters which have never been voted on in this house!
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the negotiations on a common european asylum policy are tough and difficult. it often seems as if we are at an impasse. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have worked quickly in this area, but we have only one right of audience. the council must, as we all know, decide unanimously. the commission is therefore certainly right to look for new ways. i would like to say that the open coordination mechanism is not a solution for us - certainly not for the european parliament. the epp group, unlike the rapporteur, is strongly opposed to the introduction of an open coordination mechanism in the field of asylum policy. the open coordination mechanism leads, in our view, to the circumvention of the community decision-making procedures and the exclusion of the european parliament. this would be the first step towards returning asylum policy to the intergovernmental level and removing asylum policy from the scope of the ec. apart from the fact that the convention is in the majority in favour of continuing to regulate the asylum field in a community manner, we cannot and must not allow the european parliament, as the only institution in europe with democratic legitimacy, to be excluded from the formulation of a common asylum policy. the epp group therefore rejects the report by mr evans. there are other reasons for our group's rejection of the report. firstly, the demand for a restrictive interpretation of the exclusion clauses of the geneva convention on refugees. secondly, the requirement to ensure that applications are first examined in the light of the geneva refugee convention's exclusion clauses before any grounds for exclusion are examined a departure from the law currently in force and that accelerated procedures or admission procedures are not routinely used in such cases. thirdly, the requirement to ensure that there is no routine examination of asylum applications for exclusion. we will also not agree to the abolition of eurodac. it is not possible that biometric data even fingerprints collected from asylum seekers cannot be used for the purpose of criminal investigations. security is a great asset for the citizens of the european union and for the people who seek protection and security here. the epp group can only agree to mr evans' report if the plenary vote adopts the far-reaching amendments which we - the european people's party - have tabled in the form of amendments. in any case, parliament must clearly reject the open coordination mechanism. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is of course surprising that an institution like the commission should be in favour of the open method of coordination. this is a bit like the metternich method instead of the monnet method, and it is precisely as the european commission that you are signalling the failure of your own asylum policy. it is not surprising that mr evans, as the british rapporteur, is in favour of open coordination. but if you then cite the employment policy of the community as a positive example of the application of this method, that is very strange, because you have apparently not followed the current employment and labour market situation in the eu for a long time, otherwise you would have become aware of the failure of open coordination in this area. let me make a few comments on some of the points. the report provides that biometric data of asylum seekers will not be used for law enforcement purposes until there is a separate european data protection framework for this purpose. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of personal data. we have the highest level of data protection in europe in the world. why you want to prevent the effective use of eurodac and thus the protection of our citizens from crime by such a silly demand remains a mystery. it is also good that this report calls for the procedures for obtaining refugee status to be speeded up. it is a matter of examining an application. this is also a longstanding demand of the epp/ed group. it was your group, mr evans, that in various reports advocated ever new appeal bodies, ever more extensive and bureaucratic legal remedies, ever less powers of proof for the state and therefore of course also longer procedures. so it would be nice if you could follow the words in this report with actions in other reports. thirdly, and this is the main problem, you do not say a word in this report about the real problems in our society. they say nothing about how to deal with those who support terrorist offences. what do we do if someone wants to name their child osama bin laden to provoke our people? what do we do with people who publicly cheer on the images of 9/11? what do we do with islamist preachers who preach hate and violence? how do we react to people who verbally trample on our basic liberal democratic order? do we have to wait until these people commit a terrorist offence before we can deport them or before their guest rights expire? this is the question that is being asked again and again in our societies at the moment, given the situation in which we find ourselves. these are the questions we must answer. in fact, there is nothing in your report to that effect. but these are questions we will have to clarify in many further debates. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. victim protection has also been a subject of political debate at european level for a long time. since the 1980s, the european parliament has regularly called for the improvement of the position of victims. the need to support and protect victims of crime is indisputable. the question is how and to what extent. europe has taken up the issue of victim support and compensation with the vienna plan of action. in 1999, the european parliament's agenda included improving the position of victims of crime in the eu. the tampere summit called for the establishment of minimum standards for the protection of victims of crime. today we are giving our opinion on the commission's green paper on compensation for victims of crime. we do this in the belief that national schemes for compensating victims are not enough. it is not possible that victims are compensated differently within the european union just because, in addition to the misfortune of being a victim of a crime, they also had the misfortune of being a victim in the wrong country. for example, one member state covers only the cost of psychiatric treatment for victims of sexual violence, while other member states cover the cost of all medical treatment for other crimes. another area: in all member states the burden of proof is on the applicant, but the degree of burden of proof varies greatly. another example: in some member states, reporting a crime is a prerequisite for any compensation, in others it is not. these examples give an idea of the different conditions under which the fifteen member states operate. critics accuse the commission and parliament of being too slow to adopt and implement decisions to protect and compensate victims. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome step towards the creation of a european environmental policy. harmonization is desired by many organizations that advocate for victims. i can understand the desire for quick solutions, particularly from the ranks of victim protection organisations. but many small steps and a comprehensive education campaign are needed to achieve the goal of european victim protection. this means finding and adopting common rules for all and in all member states. this makes it all the more important to establish, as a first step, minimum standards for state compensation for victims of crime who do not receive compensation from the offender or otherwise. all this is taken into account in this green paper. this approach is good; i welcome it on behalf of the epp group, because it is the right way to achieve a community-wide system of victim support in the eu. in conclusion, i would like to express my sincere thanks to mrs angelilli for her excellent report and for her willingness to support many of the compromise amendments tabled by the various political groups. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to thank the rapporteurs and the commission. commissioner vitorino, you will see that i am again very balanced today between praise and criticism. first, to protect the victim. over the past decades, well-known global ngos have repeatedly taken care of offenders around the globe, their conditions of detention and their reintegration into society. unfortunately, we have often forgotten and left the victims of their crimes alone. even today, not all member states provide comprehensive victim protection, especially for third-country nationals. in many countries, victims of negligence are treated with the same disregard as victims who cannot claim lasting or serious harm. the only exemplary rules so far are those for compensation for victims in the scandinavian countries of denmark, sweden and finland. as a member of the committee on petitions, i am constantly confronted with cases where compensation for victims of eu citizens has not been paid in other eu countries or has been unreasonably delayed. we have received a dozen petitions from victims of violence within the union in the past year alone. but so far there has been no legal basis to enable us to intervene. i hope that this will now change, especially if the commission also follows up its green paper with concrete legislation. there 's one thing we shouldn 't do at this point: we should not create another eu fund, because the member states cannot escape their own financial responsibility. if the us can provide financial relief to the families of the victims of 9/11 anywhere in the world, regardless of their nationality, then the eu member states must be able to do the same within their territory. the proposal by mr santini on legal aid is also an important step towards the creation of this area of law. we already have the regulation on cooperation and enforcement in civil and commercial matters. we have legal aid in criminal matters between the member states of the european union. we have thus succeeded in helping the european citizen to obtain his rights more quickly and more easily across borders. it is therefore urgent that access to legal aid be made european, because only in this way can we help the european rules already in place to be applied fairly, even to those who cannot otherwise afford a trial. and, mr cashman, it is completely illusory to think that this can only apply to crossborder processes, because if you set a higher standard at european level, your own people will go into a storm, and if you set a lower standard at european level, you will have to ask yourself why you treat eu citizens worse than your own. that is why harmonization is absolutely necessary. i do not see why we should not promote it at european level. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. often, only compromise can bring us out of difficult situations. i would like to thank mrs paulsen very much for her commitment and for her long breath in the search for a workable compromise, which we have finally found and which is, in the final analysis, satisfactory to us. we also recommend that the joint text be approved. i would like to use my speaking time today to make it very clear that i did not immediately agree to this compromise with flags flying. the reason is that we are postponing a decision on a matter and giving the commission an open-ended mandate. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the food waste is not recycled. what is suitable for human consumption and then left over is not just a waste product with all the consequences of treatment and disposal, but is also a waste product because no one wants to eat it or can eat it. robert goodwill also pointed out the many problems of elimination. however, food scraps are also valuable nutrients which - as the examples in germany and austria prove - can also become good animal feed if they are collected with the highest technical and hygienic standards and then prepared in the form of a rinse tank. we know very well that food waste can be a carrier of animal diseases and animal diseases. that's why we need the optimal preparation to high standards. technology makes this possible. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's foodstuffs are not used for human consumption. does the menu on your plate suddenly become junk when it comes off the table? we are calling for a general ban on the feeding of food scraps until there is proof that they have been properly prepared. so the issue of compromise is not yet off the table. the commission is now invited to submit a proposal for the recovery of food waste by the end of 2004. i would like to confirm this request by asking that the existing possibility of preparing the dishwasher tank be taken into account. some of the large investments were made by small and medium-sized enterprises, family farms and agricultural holdings. in particular, there must be no loophole by first banning and then approving again some time later, so that time passes without a decision being taken. companies need planning certainty. animal feed in the european union must be safe and reliable for animals and humans.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs paulsen, very much. i am in favour of maintaining the feeding of food scraps under strict conditions. to be clear, we are talking about food that is officially approved for human consumption. so that the audience understands this - for example, it is about unsold bread that is no longer fresh the next day, cake edges and so on. the heating of foodstuffs is a sufficient measure to prevent disease and to make it possible to use them in a meaningful way, thus preventing additional waste tourism. in addition, it provides pigs in particular with an optimal supply of essential amino acids and fatty acids, thus reducing the import of feed. the negative effects of liquid feed, i.e. rinsing fluid obtained from food residues, are also relatively little known in pigs for fattening. an appropriate standard of sterilisation to kill pathogens must be guaranteed. the outcome of the conciliation procedure with the seven amendments was accepted by the council without further ado, and on the very important amendment no 25, which contains a comprehensive compromise, i welcome the council text which provides for transitional measures for a maximum of four years from 1 november 2002 under strictly controlled conditions. a firm commitment by the commission to draw up a directive on bio-waste, including kitchen and catering waste, by the end of 2004 must have as its main objective the definition of safe use, recovery and reuse. the contamination must be controlled, and we welcome that approach. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of the foodstuffs produced in the community is not affected by the presence of contaminants in the foodstuffs. a general ban on feeding cannot guarantee sufficient control. we could cite a whole catalogue of examples. i have already been told this by previous speakers. where is it? we should not destroy this precious food in the future either. in conclusion, i am personally a strong supporter of a regulation rather than a directive on this issue, because i can already see the different ways in which it is being implemented in the various countries, i can sense the distortions of competition, and if it is not right, it is not right anywhere, neither in germany nor in austria, nor in any other member state in this single market.
- mr president, commissioner, i too would like to express my gratitude to mrs paulsen for the good cooperation she has shown. the result is visible. i think we have a good regulation here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the bse crisis. it is important, above all, because it is not just a question of the method of feeding and the authorization of feeding under certain conditions. it is also made clear what happens to the one who cannot be fed. so the destruction is also regulated here. we must also achieve this in the area of food waste. a ban is not enough, because you don't know where the stuff is going to end up. i always said you can't just dump it in the ditch. that is when it becomes dangerous, when it is unsterilized, possibly uncontrolled, on animals. then it can lead to the spread of plague and foot-and-mouth disease. not if it's been sterilized. i am glad that the commission has taken up this proposal and says that it will have a directive by 2004 - mrs keppelhoff - we are not talking about the european parliament, but about the commission, which is the only body that has the power to make decisions on the matter. unfortunately, there is no record of the compromise we reached. since it will be the next parliament to debate this - and something will quickly be forgotten - i will distribute a note to the minutes which you can look at. perhaps we can sign this and then ensure that for the next parliamentary term this is treated as our will.
the commission. mr president, i would like to thank you. members of the european parliament! first of all, i would like to thank jonas sjöstedt, the rapporteur on this matter, who has made a substantial contribution to this complex area. this area is important not only for us here in europe but also for the rest of the world, in particular for our partners in the developing countries. as you are probably aware, the protocol we are going to discuss today is linked to the recent ratification by the european community of the cartagena protocol on biosafety. the overall objective of this un agreement is to establish common rules for the transboundary movement of genetically modified organisms with the aim of achieving global protection of biodiversity and human health. the european union must fulfil its international obligations. we must therefore incorporate the provisions of the biosafety protocol into our legislation. this proposal complements the existing community framework, in particular as regards the export of genetically modified organisms, in order to bring it more into line with the provisions of the biosafety protocol. the proposal consists of the following main elements. firstly, the obligation to notify exports of genetically modified organisms intended for deliberate release into the environment. secondly, the obligation to inform our international partners about community practices, legislation and decisions on genetically modified organisms and the unintentional release of such organisms. thirdly, a set of rules to be used to identify genetically modified organisms for export. these rules are in line with the latest developments in community legislation on genetically modified organisms, in particular with the provisions of the draft regulation on traceability and labelling. the current proposal does not contain any new specific community provisions on the import or movement of genetically modified organisms between member states, which will continue to be covered by existing community legislation. i would like to emphasize the importance of moving quickly on this proposal. the eu has played a key role in international negotiations since their inception. we must show that there is no doubt that we will meet our commitments and that we will be able to fully implement the protocol once it enters into force.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on agriculture and rural development. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the european union signed the cartagena protocol on biosafety in 2000. this international convention must now be transposed into community law as soon as possible. the protocol aims to avoid adverse effects on biodiversity and human health through international regulation of trade in live gmos. it regulates the safe transfer, handling and use of genetically modified organisms, with a focus on transboundary movements. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the matter. for gmos intended for direct use as food and feed or used for processing, notifications to the commission or to the biosafety clearing-house shall be provided. the regulation will apply only to exports to third countries outside the european union. trade between member states of the european union and imports into the european union are already subject to community law. the future eu regulation should follow the protocol's requirements as closely as possible in order to create legal certainty through uniform international standards and avoid unnecessary red tape. at the same time, it is necessary to ensure that european exporters do not face any additional formalities, but only those which must already be fulfilled when exporting to third countries. the report by mr sjöstedt has, however, largely lost sight of this objective of preserving biodiversity. it contains many requirements which go far beyond the cartagena protocol and which seek to artificially impede trade in living gmos. i do not think it is appropriate to include requirements on probative and liability in the regulation, because these issues are currently being discussed in a separate legislative procedure and therefore have no place in this regulation. the protocol assumes that gmos exported for use in closed systems are exempted from the complicated and time-consuming notification procedure. the commission's proposal is not a good one. i therefore re-submit amendment no 50 from the committee on agriculture and rural development together with mrs sommer and mr purvis and ask for support for it. i am convinced that gmos used in laboratories and not released into the environment do not pose a threat to biodiversity or human health. they should therefore be excluded from the notification procedure. in amendment no 51 we ask for further derogations from the notification procedure in order not to make trade in gmos more difficult by unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles. the regulation also needs to be aligned as closely as possible with the cartagena protocol in order to achieve greater legal certainty for international trade. it is therefore necessary that gmos for which the relevant importing country has already granted an authorisation to an exporter once and gmos for which the relevant importing country has already granted an authorisation for field trials can be exported without the need for complex authorisation procedures. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted. we need sensible and workable regulations to take advantage of the opportunities offered by biotechnology in third countries, while preserving biodiversity. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i too would like to begin by thanking our rapporteur, mr sjöstedt, for the good work he has done with this report on the implementation of the cartagena protocol on biosafety. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the main aim of the implementation of this protocol is to find a still outstanding regulation for eu exports of live gmos to third countries. the first requirement is practicability. we must have a realistic, workable legislation. i think that the commission's proposal is a good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i am referring to the procedures for labelling and tracing genetically modified food and feed. we have just debated and voted on this in plenary in first reading a few weeks ago. the decision was narrow, that is to say, there are differing opinions on it, and we are currently awaiting the council's opinion. the proposal for a directive on environmental liability is also being debated in the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. a decision on this is far from in sight. therefore, a determination in the liability issue of the detectability of gmos and of excipients in this report must be strongly rejected. these questions have nothing to do with the transposition of the cartagena protocol into community law. i have therefore decided to put forward a number of motions for separate votes to correct what i believe to be the incorrect vote by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. the committee on agriculture and rural development's initial approach was also incorrect, as in its opinion it wanted to extend derogations from the documentation and information procedures for live gmos in transit and in closed systems to gmos for research and development, i.e. field trials under part b of the release directive 2001/18. i think that this was more of an inaccuracy or, indeed, a misunderstanding. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is, after all, living gmos that are still in the research stage, so they are not guaranteed to be safe. if we allow gmos which are not authorised within the eu to be exported to third countries for field trials - that is, for release into the environment - without any controls, we are acting irresponsibly. i say this because i am in favour of green genetic engineering, as has certainly been made clear in the discussions in this house so far on the release directive and on the draft regulations, traceability and labelling of gmo food and feed. by exempting live gmos from the documentation requirement for release in third countries, we would help to ensure a permanent relocation of research outside europe, whether the moratorium in the eu continues or is lifted. in any case, it would be much easier to do research elsewhere than in the eu. but we must see to it that we can make research within the european union possible and that we can also control what happens there. i therefore, together with my colleague, mrs emilia müller, am tabled two new amendments on behalf of my group for today's vote. these are the amendments nos 50 and 51 to article 4 which have already been mentioned. the first amendment limits the derogations from the documentation and information procedure to gmos in transit and in closed systems. we really need these exceptions here, so as not to hinder research, and i am convinced that fears of possible incidents in this area, such as the bursting of shipping containers, would be exaggerated. i should not be allowed to cross the street, i should not be allowed to get into a car or a plane, because the possibility of an accident is always there, even if its probability is extremely low. the second amendment concerns a derogation from the information procedure for exports of gmos to a third country where that third country has already granted a release authorization to another country for the same gmo. these derogations are necessary because the so-called advanced informed agreement procedure, as an information procedure, does not offer any added security in this case and thus makes cross-border shipments unnecessarily difficult. i hope you will follow my reasoning and, of course, i ask you to support the vote in my favour. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we welcome the report by mr sjöstedt. i think he has done an excellent job - not least because he has gone beyond the minimum standard set by the commission. i think that we as a parliament must set a milestone here with our vote and - as my predecessor has already said - make it clear that the protection of biodiversity is paramount, the protection of the population, but also the freedom of choice of the so-called third countries to which exports are made. the latest reports, the latest conflicts with the united nations, with countries in africa, particularly somalia -- countries that are being put on the back of the gun, as if to say, "eat or die" -- where people are being exploited, when people in those countries are starving, to force them to buy genetically modified food, make it clear that we really lack choice. i can only ask the commissioner to remain firm with the united states, and i would like to ask you very warmly at this point not to bow to the threats of the united states but to make it very clear that we are not going to give in here. we must not lift the moratorium, especially since you know that only one member state has implemented the directive on the release of animals. we are a long way from a liability regulation and a satisfactory labelling regulation. that's what we need to focus on. we must show with this report and this vote that we are able to close the great gaps that still exist in the cartagena protocol. i would like to draw particular attention to the export of food and food aid. we must not give in to us pressure and go against the wishes of these countries, but we must make it clear that these countries must also be informed. again, this is about not trampling on the right of consumers around the world to decide what they eat. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have seen this with regard to eastern europe, but also with regard to the third world countries in particular. it is not a question of shifting the risk, but of ensuring that we have the highest standard, and making it clear that the standard must be applied in europe and that we do not make those countries a risk area for research that would not have been carried out in our country. we cannot abuse these countries for high-risk research. it is not only a breach of security but also a breach of human rights if we abuse these countries for research that is too risky for us. it is also important - and mr sjöstedt has already mentioned this - that we really solve the liability and labelling issues satisfactorily. we must also make liability a more effective instrument to encourage industry to deal with this issue more responsibly. i would therefore urge the commissioner once again to state in her final statement how she views the un food aid and how she intends to deal with the moratorium as long as we have not satisfactorily regulated these criteria, which we also urge the commission to do.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we are talking about a technical measure. the resolution before you, which we are voting on, concerns something we call comitology, which - the people in the gallery will be surprised - many members of this house have difficulty understanding and certainly do not need to understand. the committee procedure gives the commission the right to harmonize legislation through the technical committees within the limits of the power conferred by the legislation. the resolution, adopted unanimously by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, criticises the commission for not having the right to exercise it now. we are talking about the commission's intention to postpone the entry into force of the sixth amendment to the cosmetics directive, which should have been in force long ago. the sixth amendment to the cosmetics directive was adopted by parliament, which decided that cosmetics tested on animals should be banned from being placed on the market, because parliament, like the majority of the population, is convinced that we have enough cosmetics and that we do not need more cosmetics - toothpaste, shower gel, etc. - for which animals are tortured and have to die. there was a clear timetable for this ban. the time frame was 1998. in 1997, the commission gave itself the power to delay entry into force. it has said that it will enter into force in the year 2000, but at the same time it has added the possibility of a one-off extension of two years. i shall not go into the legality of that. the situation was that the marketing ban was to take effect on 30 june 2002, and it has taken effect. the commission now intends to postpone the date of entry into force for another six months in the near future - probably in a week or a few days, on 24 september - by means of a comitology measure. it justifies this by saying that we are in the middle of the conciliation procedure on the seventh amendment to the cosmetics directive and that is why the measure could not come into force in june. mrs wallström, i am sorry to have to address you as a member of the commission. we accuse you of acting illegally, of breaking the law. you're breaking the contract, and you're breaking existing legislation! i would very much like to say that to mr liikanen, but unfortunately he is not here today. i know that the commission acts as a collegiate body; i am also aware that there are people in the commission who have very different opinions. i therefore regret, mrs wallström, that i have to address you today. i would have liked to have been very sharp with mr liikanen. i admit it's harder with you. nevertheless, what you're doing is illegal! it is illegal and we will therefore bring you before the court of justice if necessary. i am sure that the majority of this house will support this as well. what you're about to do is not only illegal, but completely senseless. i could say in german, it's stupid! they want to decide on a retroactive measure. they want to decide something that will be retroactive, that is, by 30 june. why would you do that? it's already the end of september. the conciliation procedure will be completed within two months. it must be locked. they have already failed to implement the ban on marketing. in theory, you're already acting illegally, but we say okay, this is a certain lawless space, we tolerate it. the member states are not implementing, and we know that the member states are waiting for the seventh amendment, and they are doing well! what the commission wants to do now is this: it wants to set a precedent, and we are not going to let it get away with that. they want to give themselves the right to delay the sixth amendment again. and if we're all just sitting around like little lambs, you think you're gonna have the right to keep doing that. we will not allow you to set a precedent! we are not soft lambs! i am not, and neither are my colleagues! that's why we're telling you you're doing something illegal. this resolution makes that very clear. we ask you not to take this action. the four articles that you're asking us not to do are very clear: we tell you, keep your hands off this measure. we are telling the member states that if they do not take this measure, they will not decide. and we tell them that if they do, we'll take them to court! mrs wallström, i really ask you to take this message back to the commission. i see the colleagues from the directorate-general for industry sitting next to you. we're serious about this. we think you're breaking the law! you, as the commission, cannot break the law. you know that previous commissions have not been very well received, and you should also act as well and as honestly as possible. you will not do so if you wish to decide on another implementation measure. i therefore ask you, as rapporteur for the cosmetics directive, to do nothing more than to keep your hands off it. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i think we are all united in our displeasure with the commission. it is not the commission's place to act illegally, to console us with the implementation of this decision, to postpone it, etc. it is also not appropriate for it to stand by and watch the member states make their omissions legal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal testing of cosmetics is not restricted to the manufacture of cosmetics. the commission is the guardian of the laws, and as the guardian of the laws it must ensure that the laws are implemented. the commission is not the guardian of the law, but the guardian of the law. that's a fatal effect you're having here. the commission's proposal is not a new one, but it is a new one, and it is a new one, and it is a new one, and it is a new one, and it is a new one, and it is a new one, and it is a new one. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would therefore like to emphasize once again, madam commissioner, that it is not appropriate for you to send this fatal signal. the commission must turn around, become the guardian of the treaties and do everything in its power to really stop the member states from implementing this right, and it must not go and break the existing european law itself. this is unacceptable and mr whitehead has rightly pointed this out. how do you intend to convey to the citizens that the commission has failed to make a real effort to implement exactly what should have been done in the past? i think it is quite absurd that the commission should also be going behind the back of the conciliation committee, taking back positions, and making the work that is being done here in parliament almost absurd. it is truly unique in history that the commission has gone so far and done so. you see, there is a lot of resentment, and i can only hope that we will adopt this resolution by a large majority and that the commission will really see this as a strong reminder and realise that this is of far-reaching importance. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have already heard from mr martin that i am in the luxurious position of not having just one and a half, two or three minutes as usual, but that i can be a little flexible. i promise my colleagues, and in particular mr casaca, who will be presenting the next report, that i will not take advantage of this. i am glad that you are chairing the sitting at the moment, mr president, because you are also chairing the conciliation procedure on cosmetics and you are as helpful as you could possibly want a conciliation leader to be. so it's a pleasure to see you here today. i am grateful to you, ladies and gentlemen, for the debate. we are not only having a very lively discussion today, as we often do, but we can obviously excite visitors to the gallery, as we have just seen in the applause, which is admittedly unusual but of course we like. i would like to make one more point, and not really correct mrs flemming, but add to it so that the male visitors also feel that they are being addressed: when we talk today about the cosmetics directive, it is not just about the anti-wrinkle creams which i, at 49 years of age, desperately need for my work here in the european parliament; it's also particularly related to deodorants, to shampoos, to aftershave, to toothpaste, to soaps -- which is what everyone in this room uses every day. the issue we are dealing with today, namely whether animals should be tortured for these products, concerns us all, regardless of gender. of course, lipsticks and creams for wrinkles are always particularly pointillist and prominent. thank you for your support. we have worked very closely together over the past few years, also across party lines. in my country, we had elections on sunday, and in the election campaign, you tend to polarize to highlight differences. maybe i should do it here, but i can't. i can only thank the other groups for their help and support, and especially mrs garcía-orcoyen, who, like mrs flemming, is the main worker in the epp on this subject. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. we are very much on the case in that area. but whatever i have to say - and i am addressing the other colleagues here - we have always made compromises. we have sought compromises together, and i say this also to mr bernié, who may not be fully convinced, but who has not been in parliament for so long that he has known the subject for so long. of course, we also have the interests of industry in mind. of course, we said in 1993 that industry has almost 10 years to go. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal testing and marketing of cosmetics tested on animals is prohibited. and another five years for some special tests, which we think will take even longer to develop alternatives. what more could you ask for in a relationship? we must also provide incentives for industry and put pressure on industry to invest in alternative solutions, otherwise the money will be spent on the directors and we think it could also be invested in science. i now turn to the commission, to mrs wallström and to my colleagues from the directorate-general for industry, who are in the middle of a discussion at the moment but who are probably aware of what i am about to say. in her reply, which i am sure was not easy for her, mrs wallström said earlier that the commission would try to achieve the best result. if you really want to try to get the best result, you have to do two things: firstly, you should tell mr liikanen that he should finally make a proposal which could help to find a compromise in the conciliation procedure and that he should not block parliament's decisions. you know, the european parliament decided a few months ago by a huge majority of almost 500 votes that there should be these marketing bans, that is, sales bans on cosmetics. the commission has so far blocked mr liikanen's directorate-general. i therefore ask you, mrs wallström, to tell mr liikanen, but also the new director-general, mr mingasson, that there is not only the french cosmetics industry, but that there are other interests and that there is a european parliament and that he would be well advised to actually address the parliament. i wish i could, i've never seen that before. if the commission takes its role as mediator in the conciliation procedure seriously, it will make a proposal to parliament. i would also ask you to inform the member states clearly and unequivocally - ... i am sorry, mr president, but it would be very useful if you could give mrs wallström a moment to listen to what she has to say. i would be happy to wait a moment. i can't even listen to two people at once, and i can actually listen to a whole lot! i would therefore ask you to inform the member states that the ban on marketing, and i would remind you that it is a complete ban, has been in force since 30 june 2002, and that the member states would be well advised to be a little nicer, a little more flexible and a little less rigid in the conciliation procedure. if the commission wants to be helpful, mrs wallström, tell the member states: you have two options: you can be helpful in the conciliation procedure, and then your cosmetics industry gets another five plus five years. or you're not helpful and blocked, as you are at the moment, then you've already been banned from marketing since june 30th. it is the commission's job to tell them that. i would ask you very strongly, and i mean it seriously, not to sound threatening, but it would poison and seriously damage cooperation with parliament if you took this comitology measure. we would regard this as an affront and a breach of the law, because it is not necessary. they would take a comitology measure for two months three months after it comes into force; that is ridiculous to any normal thinking person. the commission also knows that it is ridiculous. it is trying to fool parliament, it is trying to set a precedent, and we see it that way. you heard that today. i would be grateful if you would inform mr liikanen in the same way if you had listened to all the other speakers. we regard it as an affront to parliament, as a breach of the law which we would punish by going to the court of justice, and i ask you to help us in the conciliation procedure, to support parliament and the colleagues, whom i thank once again for their support, and to help me in the conciliation procedure instead of making our cooperation more difficult by means of comitology measures. thank you. thank you.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to go. i would ask you to give the floor to the rapporteur for this area in our committee on budgetary control so that he can say two sentences on this report. the rapporteur is mr mulder.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, and mr president of the council! i too, on behalf of my group, can express our position, our approach and our concern here in this new type of debate - and this is not the only debate, we will have another debate in october on the actual votes. i can do this by pointing out that we are facing major challenges, as i have just described. i have great confidence in the work of our two rapporteurs-general, mr färm and mr stenmarck, who have already shown that they can do an excellent job. we shall have to carry out the work of the coming weeks and months on their shoulders. the biggest challenge is enlargement. it has been mentioned here on several occasions and is a fundamental change for our european union. the european union will look different in two years' time than it has ever looked before. this will not only have financial consequences, but also cultural changes. it's a matter of preparation. we must take the appropriate position in this parliament and show openness, freedom and openness, acceptance of others, acceptance of new ideas, new impulses. this must also be reflected in the budget. secondly, we have seen in the last few weeks, firstly because of the huge disasters that have struck austria, germany, the czech republic and slovakia, and then other parts of the european union, that we are not sufficiently prepared for disasters that may strike our continent. it is not enough to provide aid in an emergency situation, which, thank god, will now be financially equipped to not only pretend to help people, but actually provide efficient and effective aid. no, it's not enough to just help when something happens, we have to do prevention. we need to work together on early warning systems, on research on environmental change, so that we can prepare ourselves and not be like the rabbit staring at the snake and waiting for it to happen, but rather deal with it early to see what can be prevented in the first place. the third is the question of job creation. there are still far too many unemployed on this continent. despite being one of the richest continents in the world, people are forced to remain unemployed, even though we have huge amounts of money to use against unemployment. i am speaking of course of the structural funds, but also of others. this is where greater efficiency must be ensured and where the allocation of funds must be made more rapidly and efficiently. we have proposed an efficiency force which should be able to penetrate the entire bureaucratic mechanism so that we can act more quickly and get money where it is really needed, so that people, suffocated by bureaucratic waste, do not despair and say, looking back, 'we are not doing anything more'. we must also ensure that our union plans for the long term, including in terms of its personnel costs. we have relatively young staff, thank god, but we have to finance all pensions from the budget. if we want to plan for the long term, we must ensure that the appropriate funds are saved early on so that we can help here, otherwise we will run into big problems in the long term. there are initiatives since 1996 that have not been implemented until now. we have to deal with that. we must help our small and mediumsized enterprises in the european union so that they too can participate in economic development. it must not be only the large companies that can afford their own legal departments, their own tax departments, that can succeed in this european union, but it must also be possible for small and micro-enterprises. we have therefore tabled amendments to that effect. we shall be able to help you constructively in these discussions. there are other amendments, but i wanted to give you the main points of our approach. thank you for your attention. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. while the 2003 budget leaves many questions open, the economic situation for 2002 is becoming clearer and more manageable. the stabilization target in the euro area of a government deficit not exceeding 3% of gdp is, i believe, not only in germany at risk. without annual economic growth of 2 to 3%, the far too high unemployment figures can no longer be artificially overstated. it is all the more understandable that the backlog of structural funds is treated as if these funds were not there. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the unemployed, and has recently adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i also believe that the days of enthusiasm among citizens about the supposed gains in freedom made by globalisation are over. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the annual accumulation of funds from the structural funds has always been - as i recall - more than criticised in this parliament. what people get out of it determines their sense of belonging. with this non-policy on non-structural funds, the european commission is doing little to give citizens a sense of belonging. from an economic point of view, the winter months are becoming the most difficult in a long time. the many promises made in the wake of the flood disaster must finally be fulfilled at a faster pace. otherwise, there is a growing danger that the land use aspects for which we have already provided financial support from existing funds will cause considerable conflicts at the various structural levels between industry, transport, housing, leisure and tourism. the situation is serious and i assume that it is well known that the gap between income and expenditure is widening among citizens. they need the money that's in brussels.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, mr president of the council! i welcome mrs schreyer's statement that the focus should be on sustainable development, and i hope that these deficits, i.e. the unused funds which will now be used at n+2 next year, will be used to promote genuine sustainable development. we know that the deficits are mainly due to the delay in approving the programmes, but also to the fact that the member states were unable to translate the reforms of the last reform of the structural funds into sensible programmes and that the commission had to follow up on them many times. so it's both of their fault. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary infrastructure projects. there are signs that projects are being supported again that are neither efficient nor sustainable, and i ask the commission to exercise its control functions here and to ensure that sustainable development in the budget becomes a reality.
- thank you very much, commissioner barnier. membership of parliamentary committees - communication of the council's common position: see minutes.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on civil liberties and justice and home affairs. mr president, commissioner, and mr president of the council! my committee has considered his amendments very carefully and then tabled them unanimously. as stated in the guidelines, we have set priorities in the area of border security, for example. the argo programme is of fundamental importance here. it is intended to create an area of freedom, security and justice and to prepare for enlargement. the enlargement will make the issues of external border control, visas, asylum and immigration even more pressing. efficient cooperation between member states and also between the candidate countries in these areas, particularly in the fight against smuggling, is essential. the necessary resources must therefore be provided for. the committee also supports the efforts to integrate longterm thirdcountry nationals by setting up a pilot project. it is a means of communicating the values on which our european coexistence is based. i am very pleased that the commission is taking this up. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission's proposals do not, however, mean an increase in the financial envelope compared with the previous year's budget. we're only up to 99.4% of last year's figures. i would like to stress this, because after all, in the wake of 11 september, we have an increased responsibility towards the citizens of the union. in conclusion, i would like to remind you once again of the action plan of 21 september 2001 to combat terrorism. it provides for a joint action by all relevant units to prevent and combat terrorism. it called for europol and eurojust to be given extraordinary resources to do so. i hope that my committee will be supported by parliament, the commission and the council with their own proposals.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the promotion of small and mediumsized enterprises (smes) has always been a major concern of the european union. i am therefore surprised to see that the commission's preliminary draft budget is less than the amounts for the last year or years. this programme has an overall rate of implementation of between 97% and 100%. the development of small and mediumsized enterprises is the very foundation of the internal market, since it is undeniable that over 90% of the working population is employed in this sector. we must promote and develop this area, especially the new technologies. i would ask the commission to support our proposal to increase these amounts. i would like to use the time i have left to ask the council to finally find a regulation on the seat of the new agencies, so that we do not have to go through the legislative procedure in a very short time and then the council will take years to decide on the seat at all. (applause from the centre)
- thank you very much, mr. vitorino! we now come to the debate on foreign policy.
adopted by the commission on 27 june. the commission has decided to extend the period of validity of the decision to the period from 1 january 1999 to 31 december 2000. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. mr titley, the author of the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs, will not be able to take part in the debate and has asked me to make a few remarks on behalf of the committee. the committee has set three priorities: firstly, to make clear what foreign policy priorities the european union intends to set for the new financial year without blowing up the financial framework. secondly, we want more transparency. some changes in the budget nomenclature are intended to increase the outflow of funds. these amendments also have no financial consequences but will lead to greater budgetary transparency, which will also facilitate budgetary control. the third concern, particularly of the author of the opinion and of the committee, is to improve the security of our delegations in the world. there are some catching up needs that we want to support. let me say something about these three points. firstly, we are planning to increase the financial allocation for political priorities for the crossborder programmes in tacis. the new external borders of the european union require greater support for cooperation across those borders, for which we have proposed some increases. the second chapter is nuclear safety. this is another priority for this parliament and we want to see it reflected in next year's budget figures. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission is also proposing to increase the amount of the appropriations for the human rights and democracy lines, which is the same as the annual budget for the european union. we are going to do that again this year and we would ask the commission to acknowledge next year that parliament is setting these priorities and that this is reflected in the preliminary draft budget. in the area of transparency, we want afghanistan to be a separate line and not a sub-point to asia. there will be a lot of money going into this in the next few years, so this is very important. the rapporteur also stressed that the lines for palestine should be regularly disclosed in future so that it is possible to see where the money is going from the outset. i believe that budgetary control needs to be improved. these are our priorities. i would like to conclude by making a request to the council. the european parliament is asking for greater involvement in future when new commitments are made in foreign policy, otherwise we will lose credibility if the council is always making new commitments without the money to do so.
the commission. i would like to begin by making a few comments on a question from mr laschet concerning parliament's proposal to create a separate budget line for afghanistan. we welcome this for the sake of visibility, but we propose that in return, so to speak, in order not to increase the number of budget lines, east timor should be included in the echo line again. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is a high percentage. the proposal we made in the budget - and we have really thought this through very carefully - to put 35 million in the budget line is, in our view, sufficient. but we also said at the same time that if it was not enough to keep the seat, we would see what action we had to take. but at any rate, there is no reason to think that this money is not sufficient at this stage, either from the other donors or from the other donors. but it should be made clear again that securing the seat was a high priority. i would like to make a brief comment on the question put by mr lagendijk concerning the special representative. this is indeed a question of the budget for the common foreign and security policy. you know that we have already proposed here on behalf of the commission to increase the appropriations by one third, specifically for the financing of the common costs of the joint police mission in bosnia. we are very much in favour of the commission budget being re-allocated to the rapid reaction mechanism. the council had cut back on this. we would welcome it if parliament were to use the funds again. the question of tacis is now. the situation is that we have a very small margin in category 4, in the field of foreign policy, and we are faced with the decision whether to cut further. but i would also like to make the plea that in 2004, so to speak, as part of enlargement, we should pay particular attention to how, once we have enlargement, we can strengthen crossborder cooperation with the new neighbours to the east, so to speak. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would point out that this year we have again a higher rate of implementation of the budget in category 4 than we had last year. the numerous measures taken by my colleagues nielson and patten at the administrative level to introduce new structures here to speed up implementation are indeed reflected in the budget figures. i think this shows that the reform efforts are really working and that the aid is getting to the people faster.
commission. – mr president, let me give a single set of figures to illustrate this in responding to mr van dam, who mentioned correctly the low level of implementation of tacis and other programmes. when we took office at the end of 1999 the overall time it would take to work our way through the existing commitments at the level and the pace of spending at that time was 4.5 years. the following year this figure was down to 4.1 years and at the end of last year we were down to 3.66 years. this is a rough, primitive but correct measure showing that we are in fact reducing the gap between the decisions on commitment and the actual implementation in terms of spending per year. we are moving in the right direction but i have not been silent in trying to clarify to this parliament what kind of a problem we had, the size of that problem and the complexity of it when we took office. i normally characterise our foreign relations and development cooperation work by saying that it is nice that the commission is big. we do have a critical mass but when we look at the legacy of the past it is also true that we have a critical mess. we are changing this gradually. the figures mentioned by mr wijkman in this ongoing discussion on how much we do on health and education, the money devoted specifically to the global health fund, is of course not the whole story. we are also discussing the totality of the money being spent and i need to come back to this figure of 35% as the target expenditure on the social sectors, which we agreed to with parliament and which i still think is something we can deliver. the use of the flexibility instrument for afghanistan has already been addressed by my colleague, mrs schreyer. we should normalise our development cooperation and support to afghanistan. the best solution would be to put it into the budget as a whole. still, money is needed regardless of the source, and we need to more or less mop up resources to do what needs to be done in afghanistan. the figure quoted by mrs gill on renewable energy only regards a special initiative. the total figure for what we do in the field of energy also, especially with regard to renewable energy in development cooperation, is much bigger. i would also point out that in johannesburg we launched the energy initiative together with the member states. we have backed this up by the information that, in total, member states and the commission have an annual level of spending for energy-related development activities of about eur 0.7 billion. i note with deep satisfaction that mrs gill quoted my colleague, mr patten, on the need to focus on poverty in what we do in this whole area. i could not agree more. on the global health fund, i can tell you that the 15 eu member states have pledged a total of 64% of all the pledges made in support of this fund. we must also take this into account when taking the final decision on how much we consider adequate from the commission for each year as we move forward. to mr dell'alba, i would say that the aspect of human rights and the inclusion of clauses referring to human rights matters is a standard element. if you look at the whole new generation of country strategy papers that guides what we do and creates the basis for it, country by country for the whole world – this not only applies to the acp countries but also to asia and latin america, etc. – these papers clearly give a strong, prominent role to the issues of governance, democratisation and human rights. we do not yet have the same kind of mechanisms as those embedded in the cotonou agreement, where we have a negotiated relationship, but this whole discussion is clearly an important element in the ongoing dialogue with all our partner countries. finally, to mr paasilinna, on how to improve the tacis programme. in the light of the experience of afghanistan over the last year, we are determined to step up the focus on this group of countries for reasons of conflict prevention, but certainly also because of a stronger sense of a closer neighbourly relationship with these countries. all this is emerging, and we have long spoken about the need for redefining and updating the character of our development cooperation with these countries. i feel confident that we will see increased activity, and i hope stronger financial activity. as has already been mentioned, an increase of 5.4%, giving a level of eur 502 million, now makes this group of countries a main partner, including from a financial perspective.
- (de) thank you very much, commissioner. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has been working. first of all, the question by mr bösch concerning the ombudsman. this is a separate plan which, of course, must be managed within the constraints of category 5 if new requirements exist. i must say to mr maccormick that your strong call for additional judges to sit on the european court of justice is also covered by the category 5 ceiling, and i would like to point out again that you have mentioned this in connection with enlargement. the enlargement will then give us more funds in category 5 under the financial perspective, under agenda 2000. it will then be a joint task to allocate these funds accordingly. so with enlargement these restrictions will be somewhat reduced, or account will be taken of the fact that for an eu of 25 many posts will be necessary in the parliament, the council, the european court of justice and, not least, the commission. in reply to mrs smet's questions and comments, i fully share your view that women's policy, gender policy, must be taken into account in all policy areas. this is not a voluntary statement - although i am happy to make it voluntarily - but it is a contractual obligation. in many areas this is taken into account very explicitly. as regards the question of violation of human rights, particularly violence against women, i would point out that article 9 of the cotonou convention also specifically states that human rights include the rights of equality between men and women. this is of course also a guideline for all measures in the area of category 4. the question put by mr heaton-harris is this: you asked specifically about the olaf budget, why the commission has made a cut of about eur 700 000 here in the hve compared to 2002. this is actually a technical adaptation. in 2002, parliament had changed the establishment plan compared to the commission's proposal, so that there are more b posts instead of a posts, with b posts of course causing lower costs than a posts. this had not been taken into account in 2002, but for the preliminary draft of 2003. that is to say, it is not a de facto reduction but an adjustment, and i would point out, mr president-in-office, that the council has now introduced a real reduction in its first reading, which will then be discussed. i would also like to point out that in our call for additional posts to be allocated to preparation for enlargement, which are not yet secured, although i very much appreciate the efforts of parliament in this area, additional posts are also provided for olaf. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
the commission has already done so. the different effects of our budgetary decisions on men and women have hardly played a role in today's debate. for years the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities has been making proposals in the budgetary procedure to take account of the different effects of our decisions on women and men. we have been successful in employment policy, in the structural funds, where gender mainstreaming is embedded. gender sensitivity is also growing in foreign policy. in afghanistan, accordingly, targeted measures were introduced to reintegrate women into public life and help them achieve their human rights. we have made progress in the fight against modern slavery, human trafficking. violence against women has also become a domestic issue. the stop and daphne programmes may not, however, be used to organise only representative events. only 13% of projects can be funded in the end, which is why the ngo needs to be directly helped. gender budgeting will become an even bigger issue than before. the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities is also preparing an own-initiative report on this subject. a word of criticism also for the procurement practice. often - for example in the case of the town partnerships, in the case of the ngos - there is great anger. this has caused a great deal of frustration among the active europeans. on the one hand, we must ensure that we do not spend more on tobacco growing and remove bureaucratic obstacles there, but on the other hand we must not create such obstacles for the ngos. i'm asking you to help me. (applause from the centre)
mr president, thank you for changing the list of speakers so that i can speak. the committee on legal affairs and the internal market is very concerned that the work of the european court of justice is still lagging behind in terms of translation. what is the practical effect of this? let us assume that a trial has been concluded and a judgment has been rendered. since the court of justice, unlike other community institutions, does not publish its decisions until they are available in all the community languages, the result of the congestion of translations is that the judgments are kept in the files of the court of justice for one or two years before they can be published. i think that is an intolerable situation. this is also becoming increasingly problematic for the courts of the member states, because in preliminary ruling proceedings the procedure before the european court of justice is only an interim procedure within the member state's court of first instance. in other words, these two years do not then conclude the whole procedure, but are added to the duration of the procedure in the member state. we therefore call for the appropriate means to be made available to put an end to this intolerable situation. the committee on legal affairs and the internal market is also responsible for internal market and eastern enlargement issues. we have always taken account of the particular challenges that enlargement to the east poses to the internal market, particularly to the border regions. we strongly support the amendments which seek to set the pilot programme for smes at eur 15 million, as promised last year.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. let me make a few points in the course of the debate on the 2003 budgetary procedure. the first topic - because it has moved us again this week, mr president of the council - is the european union's aid to repair the damage caused by the floods in europe. we as a parliament actually adopted a good strategy here in this house a few weeks ago. i am not very happy that we have not succeeded in getting it through the negotiations with the council. i would like to ask you, mr president-in-office, to make sure that all the commitments you made to us yesterday in the trilogue, particularly as regards the timetable, are respected, because the immediate aid we are trying to provide will lose its character if, because of your failure to honour your promises, we are not able to make the funds available until christmas. that would not do justice to the people and the victims of this flood disaster. the other idea of the epp group has already been put forward by our group leader, james elles. i can only make a few points. i am very much aware, madam commissioner, of the commission's promise when it took office, of everything it wants to do better, and in particular of how it intends to reform and improve the way the commission works and functions internally. three years later, we are seeing a decline in this zeal for reform. it is therefore the parliament's task to provide a small incentive here again, to encourage you not to slacken off in reform. that is why we are in principle in favour of additional posts, but first in the reserve, and we are waiting for a detailed timetable of how you intend to use the last two years of your mandate to complete the reform of the commission. that was your promise three years ago, and you must carry it out during your term of office, along with all the other things that need to be done, because that was also an important task that the citizens gave us in the 1999 european elections. in the field of transeuropean networks, we want to see - to address another issue - the bottlenecks we have with the countries of central and eastern europe being broken down. i would also ask you, commissioner, to draw up proposals for the member states directly concerned, which are neighbouring countries of the enlargement countries, so that the funds from the budget lines are used in particular for the removal of these bottlenecks. i think it is very important that enlargement can also take place in reality, with the appropriate crossborder infrastructure available to the countries of central and eastern europe. the third issue was the palestinian authority. we have submitted a request for funds to be placed in the reserve here. we want to make sure that european taxpayers' money is used properly. the international monetary fund has not yet been able to confirm that it is doing everything that we naturally expect when using european funds in the area of expenditure control. the common foreign and security policy is a major focus for us. the president of the council already knows my request. it is not very pleasant when we have a concert at the end of july, when all the other members are already on holiday, and then the council does not respect what we have agreed. i'm a little disappointed in you. the request is that we should have greater involvement of parliament in the context of joint foreign policy actions, as stated in the declaration of the conciliation committee. we have tabled an amendment which is intended to show a way forward, and i ask you to support it. we will have to discuss in detail next week what we want to do in the 2003 budgetary procedure. the epp is ready to cooperate constructively with the other groups. i hope that we will then be able to achieve these important objectives together.
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has been working. i would like to start with the questions and statements by mrs gröner about the budgetary review, how many activities are directly related to women, and to what extent programmes also have content that is explicitly geared to equality. i would like to point out once again that we have explicitly taken this into account in many budget figures, we have explicitly included this in many programmes. if you use the word gender budgeting, i like to include it too and i have actually planned for the future that we will also use our very precise regulations that we have for accounting to be able to give further answers here. the fact is that payments to a beneficiary can only be made if he or she is, so to speak, entered in the appropriate register. we haven't saved the gender yet. but that would be a step to take. i very much hope that i can present you with the results of the study on international women's day next year! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. first of all, as regards the question by mrs buitenweg on the proposed use of the additional posts for 2003, i can say that this is correct. the 500 posts we have applied for are to be used entirely for preparing for enlargement. but the other priorities - sustainable development, security - will also be reinforced by redistribution within the house, within the services and between the services. this means that, according to the commission's proposal, which we can then also implement administratively ourselves, 149 additional posts will be made available for the priority 'sustainable development'. the proposal now provides for an increase of 33 posts in the directorate-general for environmental protection, together with the enlargement departments. i think that once again shows where the priorities are. as regards the use of the 717 posts you have given us over the last two years, the emphasis has been on foreign policy. nearly 300 additional posts have been created there to improve the implementation of external aid programmes. the figures you have for implementation every week show that there has been a real improvement, that the 300 jobs in this area have a clear impact. in other areas - competition, etc. - it is also visible. i would like to reply to mr virrankoski - and the plea for strengthening small and mediumsized enterprises was made by several members of this house - that we are providing eur 66 million in this specific line, but small and mediumsized enterprises can of course also be supported through the structural funds and, accordingly, also through loan programmes, for which aid is then also provided from various lines. mr wuermeling, you also called for the european court of justice to be equipped in this way and you specifically mentioned the fact that the court of justice is faced with the situation of having to work in many languages and having to translate its judgments into the relevant languages. the court of justice has seen a considerable increase in this area in recent years, thanks to the rapporteur for this area, mr ferber, who has worked hard and successfully to increase the appropriations in recent years. mr turchi, you said that the financial perspective had to be adjusted in connection with enlargement. so that will be our common task for 2004, because then we will have to adjust the forecast in such a way that we will allocate the funds from category 8 to the other measures accordingly. the negotiations on the enlargement budget are well under way. the budgetary authority must then make the appropriate adjustment for the year 2004; so in the course of 2003, we will all be doing this. i would like to thank mr garriga polledo again for his comments on the human resources aspect. as regards the reform of the commission, we will of course be very happy to report to you again on the state of implementation of the various measures which we have decided in the white paper and which are supported by the european parliament. the president of the council will certainly be making a statement on the disaster fund shortly. i would like to say again, however, that we are in a special situation here because we are dealing with a completely new instrument. if we really succeed in creating all the legal bases for this new instrument by the end of october this year, then that will be a record achievement. i think i have answered mr medina ortega's questions in the context of the european court of justice. as regards the implementation of the various instruments, i think we should also discuss the report on the structural funds in more detail in the committee on budgets. i would just like to point out once again that in 2002 we will not have the surplus we had in 2001, because far more money is being spent on agricultural policy than was the case last year, partly because my colleague fischler has taken very rapid action to make funds available early in the areas where farmers were affected by the flood disaster or in other areas. that is 900 million euros that will be used for this. so the surplus will be less here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr casaca, you and other speakers this evening have mentioned this, and the president-in-office will emphasize it again in a moment: the council president promised that the legal basis - that is to say, when we are talking about a disaster, when aid will be provided and what the conditions are - would be discussed in a concerted manner. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i can only say that this is the decision of the european parliament. the commission had made a different proposal here. we will also have to decide on a legal basis, but in that respect i understood your plea more as an appeal to your colleagues. thank you very much for your attention.
- thank you very much, commissioner schreyer. let us now turn to the reform of the agricultural policy.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on agriculture and rural development. - the proposal for a regulation (com (87) 560 final - doc. the debate today shows that some people want to play friendly with the agricultural budget. we in the committee on agriculture and rural development and i personally believe that there is not too much money going into agriculture and rural areas in europe. it may not be going through the right channels, but that is what is needed for reform. we are therefore opposed to linear reduction because we say that it is not linear that needs to be reduced, but that it needs to be qualified. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we want to see a transition from the first to the second pillar. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it's urgently needed. we have explicitly adopted amendments which go beyond the institutional agreement because we want to force a new agreement and discussion to take place here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the financial perspective needs to be changed. that is why we want to support this. we shall certainly be discussing the details again, but in principle we think that is fine. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the name has been changed. we're calling it the leader east now. we are also a little further along in the enlargement. but we are sticking to this idea of making a bottom-up programme available to the new member states as well. finally, we would like to have transferred the genetic resources to the non-compulsory part. you know the problem. i think the commission is in agreement. we must try to find the means to do so.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i would like to begin by thanking you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for making it possible for this first debate in parliament to take place today, before the formal procedure, on the budget for the following year. as far as agriculture and rural development are concerned, i am pleased to note that a number of the amendments adopted by the committee on agriculture and rural development to bring the approaches in heading 1a back to the level proposed by the commission in its preliminary draft budget are included and that the linear reduction proposed by the council is to be abandoned. i welcome this reinstatement and would also like to stress that the commission's preliminary draft for heading 1a already provided for a margin of eur 2.26 billion below the ceiling of the financial perspective fixed in berlin. as you know, the commission will present a letter of amendment to the preliminary draft for the eaggf guarantee fund at the end of october in order to take account of the latest macroeconomic forecasts and to take account of the latest legislative developments. it is certainly too early to quantify the exact changes that could be proposed, but i can tell you the factors that will be taken into account. firstly, the devaluation of the us dollar against the euro will lead to an increase in commitment appropriations, particularly for export refunds and for some other payments. secondly, the market situation in some sectors has unfortunately not developed in a favourable way since the preliminary draft budget was drawn up. this is particularly true of dairy products, which is the sector which has not been reformed so far. thirdly, the direct payments in the agricultural sector will be reduced in the same way as the necessary appropriations for 2003. this is the result of the decisions we took in the summer, in connection with the regions of italy affected by a massive drought and then with the areas affected by the floods in germany. we have moved the advance payments to the 2002 budget, and that is an amount of over eur 900 million which is therefore no longer needed in the 2003 budget. but i repeat: these can only be general indications of the direction of the letter of amendment and not a preliminary to this one. the assumptions underlying the draft budget will of course remain valid for the purpose of the first reading of the draft budget. let me also briefly address the question that is often asked, namely, how much the proposals made in the mid-term review will affect the 2003 budget. to be clear, not at all, because the mid-term review cannot come into force until 2004 and therefore no legislative change will make it possible to change the budget next year. the resolution by the committee on agriculture calls for funds to be made available to compensate european agriculture for the extreme weather conditions, for example by using the surplus of the current marketing year or by creating a disaster fund under heading 1b. i have already mentioned that we have advanced substantial payments in the field of arable crops. this should have the effect of substantially reducing the margin anticipated for the current agricultural budget. as regards the disaster fund in question, the commission has already put forward a proposal for a solidarity fund of at least 500 million this year, but then one billion for 2003, and it should be adopted quickly. i share the concerns expressed by the committee on agriculture and rural development that greater efforts should be made to ensure and improve the quality of agricultural production. however, this is not a matter that can be resolved in the 2003 budget, but one that requires a longer-term strategy, the very strategy we have outlined in the mid-term review. this would need to be done in particular by changes in the nature and focus of support for agriculture, such as the application of the principles of cross compliance and a better balance between the two pillars of the common agricultural policy. i would like to mention three points very briefly on fisheries policy, particularly since mrs figueiredo has dealt with it. firstly, the need to maintain the budget for the external fisheries policy at its present level, which consists mainly of estimates of the cost of the fisheries protocols. the council maintained the estimates in the preliminary draft budget at its first reading. this is also essential for the continuation of community fishing activities in third countries. the letter of amendment in the autumn will deal more specifically with the distribution of the amounts between the budget line and the budget reserve. in this context i also welcome the support which the rapporteurs of the committee on budgets and the committee on fisheries have given to our external fisheries policy, in particular the fisheries agreements. the second issue is the financing of the second instalment to the spanish and portuguese fleets which have previously fished in morocco. that's the 27 million euros. the commission has made a first proposal in its preliminary draft budget, but so far it has not found support from the budgetary authority. however, the commission does not see any alternative to using the flexibility instrument at present. the third theme is the budgetary impact of the reform, which is generally modest. it was only proposed that the scrapping fund be increased by eur 32 million. this would be relevant to the 2003 budget. the main problem with this fund is not its size, but its budgetary framework. here too, the commission proposed in the letter of amendment to use the flexibility instrument. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i cannot anticipate possibilities that may arise at some time in the future. as regards the co-decision procedure for compulsory remedies, this question should first be addressed to the convention. the treaties would need to be amended accordingly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause from the centre)
mr president, commissioner schreyer and commissioner fischler, you are all very welcome. it is certainly an interesting opportunity to have this newly established debate and to speak on the subject of reform of the common agricultural policy in the context of the 2003 budget. in my view, and this is the view of a majority in the committee on agriculture, the 2003 budget we are debating today is the wrong basis for discussing reform of the common agricultural policy. nor is there any discussion today on the evaluation of commissioner fischler's proposals for the midterm review. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. firstly, the council proposes a general reduction of the 1a lines by 0.8% and 0.6% respectively, which would mean a reduction of eur 275 million. secondly, in the committee on agriculture our green colleagues proposed a drastic reduction in export refunds. in fact, they wanted to reduce all export refunds to zero. both cannot be the right proposal today. it's the wrong signal. the committee on agriculture, on a proposal from the epp, voted by a majority to reject these proposals. i am willing to consider - and it may be quite sensible - the transfer of funds from the first to the second pillar, but only in the context of the specific discussion on the mid-term evaluation and with our participation. to the great delight of the member states, large sums of money also flow back to the member states from the agricultural budget every year. the utilization of the 2002 agricultural budgets is currently around 80%. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. to take the example of export refunds again, there is much that could be done here too. for these reasons, we reject, with the majority of the committee on agriculture, the idea of a preliminary mid-term review.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, we broadly support the proposals for the mid-term review, even though they will not affect the 2003 budget at this stage, but the right steps have been taken in the right direction. of course, there are still some points to be discussed. it is also a proposal for discussion. but it will also be crucial for us to be able to transfer to the second pillar without any problems in the next budgets - and this also applies to the 2003 budget - funds which have not been used in the first pillar, because rural development is something that is very close to our hearts and will certainly be a very important element in the future. the question is whether there is now a chance to go beyond the institutional agreement and implement it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what about the leader east programme, formerly inpart? i would like to mention that again. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what will happen to quotas in the milk sector? that is also a very important question. i would ask you to comment on the question of cofinancing: we need more flexibility in this area!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. don't worry, i'm not a fisherman or a farmer. i do not want to comment on the reform of the agricultural policy either. my contribution is limited to repeatedly calling for co-financing. i asked for it three years ago. and i want it to stay that way. i am here as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection and as a shadow. my shadow man, robert goodwill, is gone, the budget reporter. all the areas on which i have questions have already been raised by him or by other colleagues who have dealt with agricultural policy and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. the first concerns tobacco subsidies. this is the question that has been coming up again and again since 1994. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy calls for 'no more tobacco subsidies!'. the committee on budgets cannot of course comply with this, because we have a market order and we have to operate within the framework of legislation. i would therefore like to ask you, mr fischler, a very specific question: when will the commission finally present us with a proposal on how it intends to achieve a gradual conversion of tobacco-growing areas? i know there's a lot of discussion about this. i am not talking about the mini-stories that are targeted at the tobacco fund. i do not want to hear from you that this is all too expensive, because the cost of converting jobs - depending on the sector - is between 31 000 and 391 000 euros. the next question concerns the food safety authority. when are you going to push the council to get the fda? (the president cut the speaker off)
- this debate is over. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon. (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9 p.m.) the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. - it's a budget that is both magical, fateful and tragic. the magic number is 100 billion euros. this is the first time since 1958 that a budget has reached this figure. fatal, in his agricultural section. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas is a very good one. if we add up the annual differences between the agricultural budgets implemented and the agricultural budgets voted and the agricultural financial perspectives foreseen over a period of 10 years, we lose the equivalent of an annual agricultural budget. with this 40 billion euro that has been taken from european farmers, there was enough to save our beekeepers, to promote our wines and to set up a european fund for natural disasters. for example, in languedoc, where floods in september 2002 destroyed 4,000 ha of vineyards. tragic, because 2003 will be the year before the parachuteless jump into the endless void of globalization. this is the year of cancún and the wto ministerial conference which will conclude the global agreement on free trade in agriculture. it was also the year of the real confrontation over the reform of the cap with, for mr fischler, a powerful ally: renate kunas. it is also the entrance to the slide towards the accession of the agricultural countries of the east with unknown real costs.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. marco polo is a well-made instrument for promoting the shift from road freight to more environmentally friendly modes of transport, in international transport. it is a concrete instrument which will help us to stabilise or restore the 1998 modal split, which is the objective of our transport policy. hopefully, it will be operational by next year. the other measures we have considered in the white paper - for example the first railway package, which we have already adopted, and the second one we are now working on, cross-financing from road to rail, heavy duty vehicles, internalisation of external costs - all these things will only have an effect in the long term or at most in the medium term if we really put them on the rails. the three actions proposed by the commission in the programme show that the experience of pakt is behind them. this was a very successful programme, which has worked well for many years, although there is now a new direction. we now have more money than pakt, but we also have a greater challenge, and that is why we must ensure that the programme's intervention options are very precisely limited. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. firstly, the extension of the scope to intermodal transport. my group rejects the rapporteur's amendments nos 8, 10 and 12, because they seek to contribute indirectly to the promotion of road haulage. i am not against intermodality, but this time it is not the aim, but first and foremost the shifting of transport. secondly, we must prevent the extension of the scope of the directive to avoidance of traffic. my group rejects the amendments tabled by the green group, which again call for the implementation of measures to prevent traffic congestion with this limited budget. i would be prepared to support a new programme to prevent traffic, but this programme would be overwhelmed and we want to use it strategically. less is more here! we have jointly insisted in the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism that we do not want to see any distortion of competition between environmentally friendly modes of transport. we have lowered the minimum funding thresholds for the action, as the rapporteur has pointed out, we have considered the cooperation of the actors in crossborder transport projects - for example, in corridor conferences - to be eligible for funding, and we want the mid-term review to include a further increase in funding. i hope that the council and the commission will respond quickly to our ideas so that the programme can be implemented next year, because the growing problems of road haulage do not allow for any delay.
the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the communication we are discussing today is based on the evaluation by the commission and the member states of the five-year implementation of the employment strategy. the results are important and let me recall some of them. the creation of more than 10 million jobs in europe, which is of course a result of the economic growth rates of previous years, but also of the effective reforms we have seen in most labour markets. we have seen major structural changes in most member states, qualitative changes in employment policies and we can see in most countries progress in the following areas: activation of the labour market, prevention of longterm unemployment, more employment-friendly tax systems, gradual adaptation of education and training systems and introduction of more flexible working standards. the employment strategy is important in that it has had as its main driving force management by objectives. we had common objectives between the member states and the use of the open method of cooperation. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would particularly agree with the three priorities you have set, firstly the need to increase employment rates in relation to the lisbon objectives, secondly the issue of quality in work and thirdly the need to reduce inequalities in the labour market - and here i would particularly stress the issue of inequalities at many levels, the gaps that exist in the labour market, whether they are skills, whether they are regional inequalities or whether they are inequalities between the sexes. as regards the disparities between the member states and the new countries after enlargement, i will challenge the proposal in the explanatory statement for two parallel strategies. there is a need for a single strategy and common objectives, but of course we will use the national recommendations to diversify the messages according to the specificities of each country. the european parliament and the commission also seem to agree on the need to streamline the procedure. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. we propose the logic of fewer guidelines and a stronger medium-term strategy, greater stability of guidelines, that is to say, in simple terms, fewer and longer-term guidelines. the scope of future guidelines is also an issue in the context of modernisation. what will be the scope? will it be specific to the labour market or more broadly to all the key factors in determining employment policies? we believe that they should have a broad scope, covering the main factors affecting the level and quality of employment in our economy. as regards the governance model, the way in which the employment strategy is managed and administered, i would agree entirely with the need to integrate the employment strategy at all levels into national planning. during the five years we have seen interesting examples of regional and local employment strategies, we have seen the submission of local employment action plans, which was a successful initiative. the commitment and contribution of the social partners is very important. the first assessment is, of course, that they have not exhausted their possibilities for participation and that a considerable effort is needed, and as far as the involvement of civil society is concerned, we are very much at the beginning of their decisive involvement in employment policies. the role of the national parliaments, i would agree with them, is vital. the committee on employment and social affairs of the european parliament has already organised events with the participation of national parliaments for the exchange of experience and information and we believe that this should continue, but in our proposals for the future, and on the occasion of the debate in the assembly, we believe that the national parliament as regards the national action plans and the european parliament as regards the european procedure should play a much more important role. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. we hope that the adoption of this proposal, which i presented to your parliament on the day of its adoption, will lead to greater coherence between the two strategies without calling into question the autonomy of the employment strategy. the evaluation communication, in conjunction with the rationalisation communication, aims to launch an open debate on the future of the european employment strategy. after five years of implementation, i consider your report a valuable contribution and i hope that the council will do the same at its meeting on 8 october, when one of the key issues of the committee on employment and social affairs will be the debate on the evaluation and future of the employment strategy. as you know, the formal proposal for the 2003 employment guidelines will be tabled next april together with the proposal for the broad guidelines of economic policies. in the meantime, there will be enough time for everyone to take part in this process and to express their views. in order to broaden and facilitate this debate, the commission intends to publish another communication in january, which will be, in terms of the timing of these proposals, in the middle between the communications already adopted and the proposal for the same guidelines in 2003. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we look forward with great interest to your proposals, believing that by drawing on the experience of these five years we can make a dramatic improvement in the employment strategy.
the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities has adopted an opinion. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european employment strategy was adopted five years ago as an important step in the fight against unemployment. your four pillars have passed their probationary period in every way. firstly, employability, which includes the development of skills and qualifications. secondly, the ability of the individual to adapt to the ever-increasing demands of business and society. thirdly, the spirit of enterprise with the aim of 'creating jobs'. fourthly, equal opportunities. it is one of the most important pillars which, like the others, must be developed further. the very ambitious objective is to make the european union the most dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, not only in the economic sphere but also with clear social implications. in 1997, there were 17 million unemployed in the european union. last year, it was 13 million. this year, however, the numbers are rising again. this is being seriously noted in my country, germany. we can't get used to these heights. nevertheless, some countries have seen an increase in employment, which has benefited women in particular. however, and this is the last straw, this is particularly true of parttime jobs and many low-skilled jobs. the creation of a suitable framework through policy and constructive negotiations between the social partners must lead to the creation of higher quality jobs in the member states, particularly in the full-time sector. we are still a long way from the ambitious lisbon council conclusions of achieving a 70% or 60% employment rate for women between 2000 and 2010. in my opinion, which was unanimously adopted by the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, we criticise the fact that the member states continue to omit employment rates for women in their national action plans. the naps lack any significant suggestions for improvement in the implementation of the gender equality approach. women earn on average 76% of the hourly wage of men. the social partners are called upon to enforce the principle of equal pay for equal work or work of equal value in collective bargaining. the creation of jobs also requires targeted promotion of women's willingness to start up or become self-employed. what does that involve? the commission has also proposed a number of measures to reduce the burden on businesses, simplify formalities, particularly in the initial phase, and set up funds. this includes ensuring women's access to training and continuing vocational training. the commission has therefore decided to propose a new approach to the problem of discrimination against women. we call for these steps to be included in the national action plans in the future so that their results can be verified. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. there is some progress in the member states. but there is a general lack of family-friendly working conditions. there is a lack of provision of childcare facilities for children and other family members and a lack of flexibility overall. the main points of my opinion were adopted unanimously by the committee on employment and social affairs. i should like to thank mr schmid for his concise report and for his ability not only to seek compromises but also to enforce them. i have been involved in influencing the schmid report not only in the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities but also in the committee on employment and social affairs as the shadow rapporteur of my group in the epp/ed group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. that is why we will be putting forward motions again in plenary tomorrow. for example, since the luxembourg employment summit, initiated by the highly successful presidency of jean-claude juncker, there has been a common effort to coordinate economic and employment policies better. i agree! however, it must not be overlooked that the specific measures fall within the responsibility of the member states. there is investment, but unfortunately too often it is not made. there are taxes, social security and other taxes. there, social policy is at home with different national traditions. we do not share the view that the open method of coordination should be extended to all areas of social policy. the commissioner said that the commission had already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament's role in the process of democratization was not compromised. that would be the wrong direction. i hope we can get the support of the other groups for this and other important amendments. in that case we shall have a majority not only in the committees but also in the plenary tomorrow for the otherwise qualified report by herman schmid.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we are discussing a successful european project which, five years ago, was still subject to a great deal of scepticism and which deserved to be known by more than a few experts. since 1997, some 10 million new jobs have been created. we are not satisfied with either quantity or quality. but we agree that the employment guidelines must be made more efficient, they must not be made more comprehensive, they must be made more transparent and they should be made more binding. we do not want to change the pillar structure for the time being. we think it should be reformed. the european parliament has given a lot of impetus to this in recent years, and has also pointed out deficits. and we also want the guidelines to be implemented. we know that some member states oppose the commission's so-called passive resistance. that too must be said clearly. the first and fourth pillars were assessed positively. let me put this in a little more critical perspective. the first pillar - employability, which is concerned above all with continuing training - is still, in my experience, too random, too arbitrary and too short-sighted in the member states. we need continuous, qualified training, and this means, in effect, a right to continuing training for workers, not only when they are 50 or 55 years old, but also when they are 30 or 35. the fourth pillar - equal opportunities - has been highly praised here. i think it is also because, commissioner, equal opportunities has been accompanied by some anti-discrimination legislation that we have been able to achieve such great successes here. entrepreneurship and adaptability are still in deficit. i have the impression that many entrepreneurs have not yet realized that they too are expected to be flexible and change. the european social fund is certainly an effective instrument, but we europeans should also link it to commitments by the member states. we are not likely to survive in the long term without european sanctions. my group is with you, commissioner. the national employment plans are often still considered a secret government document unknown to national parliamentarians and unknown to the public. that is why we need co-decision at eu level and discussion and decision-making through legislation at national level to ensure democratic legitimacy. in this sense, we social democrats will be happy to support you.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. today's review shows very clearly how important it has been for us to think about strategies at european level, because, despite the competence of national governments in the field of labour market policy, economic policy and social policy, we must finally acknowledge that the internal market has helped to create interdependence between economies and at the same time interdependent living and working conditions, so that we are simply obliged, as the european parliament, as a european institution, to find a response to this challenge. the commission's approach to streamlining economic, employment and social policy is to support it, so that we can have even better instruments in these areas. we must be clear that coordination is a european task if we are to meet the challenges successfully. we are more challenged than ever to see that successes in employment are being reversed by weaker economic growth, and that, conversely, weaker labour market figures are also leading to weaker growth. we must finally get used to the fact that we have to make an eu economic policy that meets employment policy objectives and pursue a modern eu employment policy that ensures sustainable and high-quality growth for everyone. this link must be emphasized, also in our future orientation. i must say quite frankly that i really hope that the convention and the intergovernmental conference will succeed in making a breakthrough in this respect, in order to arrive at a constitutionalisation of the lisbon process, particularly with the aim of full employment. i would like to make three comments on concrete and comprehensive measures which are aimed at actually increasing the employment intensity in the european union and which are very important, particularly from the point of view of economic policy. on the one hand, it is certainly possible to increase employment intensity by means of fiscal measures, for example, by means of low vat rates for labour-intensive services. it is disappointing that there has been so little progress in this area. it should also be noted that the approaches to promoting entrepreneurship and to supporting small and medium-sized enterprises need to be integrated even more closely than has been possible so far. thirdly, in the field of employment guidelines in particular, we should also consider whether we should not make the connection with the guidelines in competition policy, that is to say in aid policy, where we have aid principles, exceptions to the prohibition of aid when it comes to the promotion of small and mediumsized enterprises, when it comes to the promotion of employment. the approaches found there are not necessarily reflected in the employment guidelines, however, and the employment guidelines are not necessarily reflected in the approaches here either. i think this is really important because aid is also a very important aspect, just as competition policy as a whole is an important policy area for promoting employment.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in all the european union's action programmes on equal opportunities, such as the fifth action programme for 2001 to 2005, a high priority is given to the balanced representation of women in decision-making bodies. while they are well recorded in parliamentary and national institutions, there are not yet sufficient surveys of the social partners. in the trade union organisations and employers' associations, women in top positions are an almost radical minority. no doubt that needs to be changed, but please, not at the snail's pace. we have unanimously called on the social partners in the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities to set concrete objectives as soon as possible to improve the quantitative and qualitative representation of women. the aim is to agree on deadlines for their implementation. databases are to be created to finally provide a precise overview of the presence of women in the expert and decision-making bodies. the creation of equal opportunities officers in all member states is also a long overdue measure. but at the beginning of every change there is an intensive work of consciousness. the aim is to make women's structures visible to the social partners in training courses and gender mainstreaming events. positive action must be developed in the form of action programmes within the organisations. the aim is to create networks of women who communicate with each other. they are to exchange experience and to pass on knowledge of projects. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of national experts in the field of environmental protection. a key element is the responsibility of the day-to-day management up to the highest levels of the board. there are therefore many reasons for this own-initiative report. the vote in our women's committee was unanimous and strongly supports the successful work of our rapporteur, mrs miet smet. i can fully endorse the content of that judgment here too.
president of the council. - thank you, mr president, for this very kind welcome. the johannesburg world summit was held from 26 august to 4 september 2002. there was a very high level of participation from parliaments, ngos and business. the danish presidency - the danish minister for the environment - attached great importance to maintaining close contact with the participants in the european parliament. i think that many of you here will agree with me. i would like to congratulate parliament on the lannoye report which was adopted in april. it was an important document in the whole process. we were facing a huge challenge. as a leading actor, we were to promote the views expressed at the previous council meetings of environment, development and foreign affairs ministers and in seville. we had to make a good result, to have the greatest possible influence, and that was not so easy given the many points of view and divergent interests that we all know. the decision to hold the summit was taken by the un general assembly in the autumn of 2000, the same year that the millennium summit adopted the eight millennium development goals for poverty reduction by 2015. the mandate for johannesburg from the general assembly included identifying new challenges and opportunities for sustainable development, as well as policies and means to support developing countries and countries with economies in transition in their efforts. in parallel to the johannesburg preparatory process, two other international ministerial meetings were held: the wto ministerial meeting in doha in november 2001, which adopted the agenda for the trade and development round, and the monterrey development finance conference in march, which concluded a historic agreement on finance and good governance. at the same time, for the first time in many years, new and substantial pledges of aid from the rich countries were made. these commitments will increase the total volume of aid by around 25% per year from 2006. we in the eu had a strong desire to set development goals in a number of areas not covered by the millennium development goals or by previous resolutions. we wanted to maintain previous achievements in human rights, workers' rights, equality and good governance and we wanted to ensure effective follow-up. we have achieved a number of things, and i will now mention the most important. as regards globalisation, we stressed the positive potential of globalisation and the social dimension and corporate responsibility. we defined poverty reduction as essential for sustainable development in a context that includes both the increase in wealth and access to clean drinking water, sanitation, energy, better health and equality. we established a number of concrete and time-bound targets in the areas of poverty, health, the environment and natural resources. among the most important is the objective of halving the proportion of people without access to basic sanitation facilities by 2015. it should be seen as complementary to the millennium development goal of halving the proportion of people without access to safe drinking water by 2015. in addition, objectives were adopted to restore and regulate fish stocks to ensure sustainable fishing by 2015, to ensure an absolute minimum of risks and adverse effects on health and the environment from the production of chemicals by 2020, and to significantly reduce biodiversity loss by 2010. in addition, an agreement was reached to establish a 10-year framework programme for sustainable production and consumption, which addresses the crucial issue of the decoupling of economic growth from environmental degradation. the most difficult negotiations were undoubtedly on the renewable energy target. because of the opposition of the united states, japan and the opec countries in particular, no specific target was adopted, but we were given an objective of increasing the global share of renewable energy as soon as possible. it is worth noting, however, that for the first time we have succeeded in getting such a strong statement in favour of renewable energy at an international summit. it is the strongest statement yet adopted. the eu, in cooperation with a number of other countries, also made a statement to continue work on the matter. these johannesburg goals and objectives, together with the millennium development goals, set a concrete agenda for the next 10-15 years of work with national, regional and international efforts. we confirmed the commitments on trade and subsidies from doha to increase market access for developing countries and support the phase-out of trade-distorting subsidies. johannesburg placed a stronger political focus on the wto process itself and its importance for developing countries. in the forthcoming negotiations we therefore have a strong commitment to live up to these expectations. we have confirmed the monterrey agreement on financing for development and the importance of good governance in attracting investment and financing. the donors who had made new commitments in monterrey confirmed this. in addition, at the summit, a number of eu countries took the initiative to jointly raise additional voluntary contributions of approximately usd 80 million to raise the global environment facility to the level of usd 3 billion originally targeted for replenishment. finally, we agreed that the social dimension should be promoted and that the previously reached consensus on the role, rights and equality of women should be maintained. the european union made a statement on this when the question of the role of women did not gain the prominence we had hoped for. emphasis is placed on national responsibility for good governance, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. it was agreed that national sustainability strategies - which could be formulated as poverty strategies - should be ready for implementation by 2005. i should also add that the indigenous peoples were also mentioned in the declaration. in the field of partnerships, the aim was to strengthen the interaction between public actors, private organisations and private enterprises in the pursuit of the objectives set. the eu also launched two new ambitious initiatives in the priority areas of water and energy, namely the so-called 'water for life' and 'energy for poverty alleviation and sustainable development'. i agree with parliament that the key is implementation, turning words into action. the momentum for more effective implementation of the sustainable development agenda was created in johannesburg. the private sector is coming in stronger. there was a clear message from companies that they have a responsibility in their investment and production to local communities and to the environment. the international follow-up will be carried out under the auspices of the united nations. this is an important issue that needs further work. the world bank and the world trade organisation should also be involved. words must be turned into action. the presidency will attach great importance to the effective follow-up of both the internal and global dimensions of the eu's commitments to the implementation of sustainable development. in this context, we have a special obligation to follow up our own initiatives on water and energy. finally, mr president, i should like to mention that yesterday there was an asem summit of 25 european and asian heads of state or government. the summit was prepared at a meeting of the economic ministers of the same countries chaired by me on thursday, and i would like to say that much of the agenda we have discussed here was discussed with our asian partners, and it was decided to launch a series of preparatory activities between the eu and asia so that we can be sure that we are making progress in cancún and elsewhere where the wto process is to continue. finally, i would like to say that it is important that we in europe make it clear when we talk about these things that we are great, but we need partners who want the same as us. and i am very pleased, and commissioner pascal lamy is very pleased, that we have come as far as we did with our asian colleagues last week and yesterday. i therefore think that there is reason for a little optimism as regards the possibility of taking substantial steps in the coming years too.
commission. – mr president, we welcome this opportunity to present the commission's assessment of the outcome of the world summit on sustainable development in johannesburg concluded three weeks ago. it is in a way rather early to make a definitive assessment of the outcome. time and our own committed efforts will tell if this summit will deliver where rio de janeiro did not. as we said repeatedly at the end of the negotiations, we have the words and it is now the duty of all of us to turn these words into effective deeds. i will not over-simplify and try to sum up the summit in one word as either a success or a failure, but overall the commission believes that we can be satisfied with the results of johannesburg. we succeeded in adding new momentum to the cause of sustainable development and the outcomes of the summit take us in the right direction. of course people will draw comparisons with the rio earth summit of 1992. the immediate assessment of some ngos and others in the period after rio was that it had been a failure. now it has come to be seen as a defining moment in the fight for sustainable development. the rio summit was very different from johannesburg in some important respects. most importantly, the political climate in 2002 is very different from ten years ago. against a difficult political backdrop it fell largely to the european union to champion the cause of sustainable development in johannesburg. we were, you might say, almost the only engine in this whole process. let me remind you of how the european mandate was determined. in preparing for the summit, the commission issued two specific communications, one in february 2001 entitled 'ten years after rio: preparing for the world summit on sustainable development in 2002' and a second communication in february 2002 entitled: 'towards a global partnership for sustainable development'. building upon these communications the council adopted several sets of conclusions in 2001 and 2002 in which the european union's negotiating platform for the world summit on sustainable development was defined. it is worth noting specifically the development council conclusions of 30 may 2002, which list in detail the eu’s priorities. the european parliament also issued its opinion in a resolution adopted on 16 may 2002. in substantive terms, we worked to undertake further steps towards the implementation of the millennium development goals, in particular the goal of halving the number of people living in extreme poverty by 2015. poverty eradication was the over-arching theme to which we linked all the concrete issues. the union argued that we had to show real commitment by setting quantifiable targets, with timetables and monitoring mechanisms, in the implementation plan. let me now focus in particular on some key achievements reached in johannesburg, which mr haarder has already mentioned, but which i think are worth noting again. the first element i would like to highlight is that a set of new targets has been agreed as part of the implementation plan. i will mention five. first, halving by 2015 the proportion of people lacking access to basic sanitation – this currently stands at three billion people, half of the total world population. this new target complements the millennium development goal on access to clean water. second, a commitment to minimise harmful effects on human health and the environment from the production and use of all chemicals by 2020. third, a commitment to halt the decline of fish stocks and restore them to sustainable levels no later than 2015. fourth, a commitment to begin implementation of national strategies on sustainable development by 2005. fifth, a commitment to halt the loss of biodiversity by 2010, as earlier agreed by the parties to the biodiversity convention. the endorsement by all heads of state and government is a major achievement. the agreement to establish a ten-year framework for programmes on sustainable consumption and production, with industrialised countries taking the lead in this global effort, is another important result. on globalisation, as has been said, the summit agreed on concrete actions to enhance the role of trade for sustainable development, for example by encouraging trade in environmentally friendly and organic products from developing countries and by strengthening international action for corporate responsibility. the eu’s objectives on energy were addressed in the council presidency conclusions of 30 may 2002, in which the eu reaffirmed its commitment to facilitating the achievement of the millennium development goal of halving the number of people in extreme poverty, and other millennium development goals, by 2015, through the provision of adequate, affordable and sustainable energy services. in line with its general position in favour of a focused and result-oriented implementation plan, the european union also supported, among other things, the establishment of a quantitative, time-bound target to increase the proportion of renewable energy within the overall energy mix. although we were ultimately not able to get a specific target for renewable energy sources in the action plan, we did reach an agreement to increase urgently and substantially the global share of renewable energy sources. we also agreed to take joint actions to improve the access of the poor to energy. those agreements will be regularly evaluated and their progress reviewed. in addition, the european union launched a 'coalition of the willing' on renewable energy. this includes countries and regions willing to set themselves targets and timeframes for the increase of renewables in the energy mix. this coalition maintains pressure on the unwilling, and should give a boost to the development of renewable energy throughout the world. significantly, this coalition will set a renewable energy target representing a floor as opposed to a ceiling. linked to this, there have been positive developments on climate change. those who have already ratified kyoto have confirmed their commitment to entry into force at the earliest possible date and others are urged to join as soon as possible. the announcements made by poland, as well as by the russian and canadian prime ministers, mean that the protocol should enter into force very soon. the european commission spoke with one strong voice in johannesburg. as commissioner for the environment, i shared with poul nielson (commissioner for development) the responsibility as chef de file in the preparations for johannesburg. we both participated in the high-level negotiation sessions at ministerial level at the wssd summit. coordination was further enhanced by the presence in johannesburg of the president of the commission. i am now pleased to hand over to my colleague poul nielson who will speak, amongst other things, about the need for follow-up and implementation of our wssd commitments.
commission. – mr president, mrs wallström has correctly said that i will be talking more specifically about trade, finance and follow-up, but first a few general remarks. one needs to keep in mind that johannesburg was a un conference. this means delegations must reach consensus. not everybody gets everything. as commissioner wallström said, we are in a different political climate than in 1992. it is almost as if ngos and the group of 77 had given up expecting constructive multilateralism from the united states; as if the us is not part of the equation for sustainable development. that attitude is not possible in the negotiation rooms, where the us, of course, is a real player, as we could see when the us and opec members joined forces in resisting targets on renewable energy. but johannesburg did result in consensus, and that in itself is positive. let me address trade issues in more detail. i have noted some concerns here. the negotiations were indeed difficult. developing countries focused on trade and on subsidies in agriculture. this forced the eu to put in a strong effort to safeguard doha as the place to discuss the substance and to avoid, in general, a derailing of the multilateral agenda. i have noted point 6 in the motion for a resolution, and i would like to point out that i think this is a correct reading of this problem. we succeeded in avoiding this derailing of the multilateral agenda, but of course we had to use up negotiation capital defending what everybody had in fact internationally agreed less than a year ago. what is very encouraging – and you could call this 'eu leadership' – is that we avoided a repetition of the disorganised 'agenda overload' that was in fact the cause of the breakdown in seattle. when ngos say that johannesburg was a failure because it didn’t reopen doha and monterrey, this is a self-constructed and unnecessary misunderstanding of what johannesburg was about. the fact that some meps seem to share this misunderstanding does not help much. doha dealt with trade in november 2001. monterrey dealt with financing in march 2002. this helped johannesburg succeed. the multilateral agenda was better organised for johannesburg. this enabled us – despite the difficulties i mentioned – to focus in the end-game on the core issues of the johannesburg summit. the eu will continue to promote its positive agenda on trade for the benefit of developing countries. there are plenty of things to report here: first, we are ahead of other major trading partners on market access, thanks in particular to 'everything but arms'. second, on friday, the eu and the acp countries launch negotiations on regional economic partnership agreements under the cotonou agreement. i can go into more detail if you have questions about this. third, last week, the commission adopted a communication on trade and development, addressed to council and to this parliament. it sets out what needs to be done to help developing partners benefit from national, regional and global trade. it responds, within less than a month, to the johannesburg political declaration and the call for increased trade-related assistance. the relevant doha provisions are quoted throughout the text. the johannesburg text also calls for the successful completion of the doha agenda, placing the needs of developing countries at the heart of negotiations, but without interfering with its negotiations on subsidies and tariffs. on subsidies, the johannesburg text directly quotes the council's conclusions. the text also reaffirms the text on access to medicines and trips. in short, the johannesburg text on trade and finance is in line with the mandate given by the development council on 30 may. that is not a bad result. the message from southern delegations was nevertheless loud and clear: 'the north must show that it is serious about doha being a development round'. that is a rather useful reminder which we, from the commission side, welcome and find meaningful. regarding finances, johannesburg fully reconfirmed the millennium development goals, also adding a few new, important targets. sustainable development remains the core objective of the johannesburg political declaration, and this gives us a coherent framework for implementing the outcome of all major un conferences. the fight against poverty was given high priority throughout the chapters of the plan of implementation. it is a step forward that the summit explicitly prioritised fighting poverty in pursuing targets such as access to energy, water and sanitation, and equitable sharing of the benefits of biodiversity. we therefore have sound, common yardsticks for whether the community of nations is doing enough. the agreed language on finance ensures a dynamic post-monterrey process, thereby maintaining the pressure for more oda. you will not be surprised to hear, however, that i think donors should be doing a lot more. if you want concrete answers as to where the eu is going, you should look at 2003 fiscal budgets for each of the eu member states. that is what i will do. regarding the role of the european parliament – there has been some debate on the role of members of this parliament at the summit, and on collaboration with the commission. since some of these remarks have been made in public, i would like to take this opportunity to briefly react. the commission was pleased to accept a substantial presence from the parliament in the union's delegation, as has been the case for all major un conferences. members followed the summit actively and interacted with the commission in briefings, summit events, side-events and so on, all in the interests of representing europe. as agreed between the institutions, members of parliament participated in delegations as observers and did not take part in negotiating sessions. there was no deviation from established practice in johannesburg. i think i should repeat this. there was no deviation from established practice in johannesburg. the commission did its best to support the parliamentarians. they were kept regularly informed of negotiations, and the commission listened carefully to their views. debriefing meetings were held on a daily basis by senior commission officials. this demonstrates the importance we gave to a transparent flow of information. both commissioner wallström and i participated in this process, and i personally met the parliament delegation three times during the summit, not to mention the parliamentary side-events i attended, including two events organised by the green party. all of this was done within the current framework, a framework referred to explicitly in president prodi's letter agreeing to parliamentary participation. i pointed out to members of parliament raising this issue in johannesburg during the summit, as i had to, that we had not come there with new rules and that it was not in our power in johannesburg to change these arrangements. any such changes require a tripartite decision involving the commission, council and european parliament. if being a loyal custodian of what has been agreed to makes one ancient, i prefer that, rather than trying to be modern if that means not being able to respect what has been agreed to. now a few words on follow-up. partnerships between governments, business and civil society will be necessary to deliver the commitments made in johannesburg. we welcome the more than 200 partnerships launched at the summit. these partnerships will hopefully bring additional resources and expertise, and mobilise action at all levels. but it is the quality and size of the partnerships that matter, not the numbers as such. the cotonou agreement is 'only' one partnership, but it covers 15 eu member states, 77 developing countries, and has a financial protocol of eur 15.2 billion. we are not starting from scratch. the european commission will focus on securing strong eu implementation of the two eu-wide partnerships on water and energy launched in johannesburg. during the summit, the eu signed with its african partners a strategic eu-africa partnership on water and sanitation. in conjunction with the eu water initiative, this is an important step towards the development of concrete actions building on strong ownership and commitment from african partners. more generally, it is clear that the effective implementation of the outcome of johannesburg means translating intentions into action through development cooperation undertaken regionally and nationally as well as locally. the eu must continue to take the lead. the european council has already agreed to review, at its spring meeting in 2003, the eu strategy for sustainable development, with a focus on putting into practice the commitments undertaken in johannesburg. to prepare this review, the commission intends to submit proposals building on the communication 'towards a global partnership for sustainable development' issued earlier this year. internally, one of the main issues to be addressed in the synthesis report for next spring's european council should be how to move towards more sustainable consumption and production patterns in the eu. i would conclude by saying that the european union can be satisfied with the role it played in johannesburg; and by stressing 'european union'. the cooperation between commission and council was also a very positive experience. the eu clearly came with the longest wish list. but of course, the higher the level of ambition, the greater the scope for disappointment. ngos and the press focus on these shortcomings. so be it. but as responsible politicians, we must be careful not to draw the conclusion that we, for this reason, should be less ambitious in the future. the commission does not believe the eu – and indeed the world – can afford to be less ambitious. (applause)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. - mr president, i have to go. i am speaking as the author of the opinion on the european climate change programme. commissioner nielson, i was surprised by the complacency you expressed in your report on the results in johannesburg. there is little to prove this, and the abuse of the press does not help or change that. i would like to speak about this 42-point climate action programme, with regard to the ten points that should be implemented in the next two years. the committee on industry, research and energy has welcomed this programme as a whole, because we believe that the measures taken by the member states alone are not enough. but there can be no doubt that the responsibility for meeting the climate change objectives lies first and foremost with the signatory states of the kyoto protocol, and therefore also with the member states of the european union, that burden sharing is a voluntary agreement within the european union and that the measures proposed by the commission and supported by parliament must not run counter to these objectives. the committee on industry therefore considers that the most efficient and cost-effective measures should be taken first when assessing the measures. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have not yet received any proposals on this. two proposals are available: firstly, biofuels, which are expensive, and secondly, emissions trading. on emissions trading, the industry committee has strongly called for a voluntary experimental phase, rather than a mandatory one, to be introduced by 2008. i think that this objective, these considerations, must be seen from the point of view of industrial policy. i have had four speakers from the scandinavian countries before me. i believe that it is a common responsibility for all of us not to lose sight of the industrial policy objectives and the competitiveness of our economy, despite all the need, despite all the support for a meaningful european climate change programme.
- mr president, commissioners, mr president of the council! the summit in johannesburg was indeed a summit where it was no longer a question of the good words that have been spoken so often, but of agreeing on concrete steps. i think it is time, because the necessary knowledge has been on the table for a long time. and of course, if you want to push sustainable development around the world, it's about reducing poverty, it's about social cohesion in many countries around the world, because that's the basic building block of sustainable development, of environmentally friendly behavior. i found all the more regrettable the behaviour of the present american government, which has tried with all tactical angles to prevent concrete agreements, precisely in order to ultimately assert its own economic interests. i think that needs to be said very clearly, especially when you look at how the european union, as the driving force behind this summit, has tried to put the right questions on the table and also to address the right objectives for the implementation of sustainable development. unfortunately, only half of this has been implemented, mainly because the world's largest industrial nation has blocked it. the eu has been the engine, pointing the finger in the right direction, particularly on the issues of water supply, sanitation and environmentally friendly production. i also found the daily discussions with the commission to be good and correct, and i am also grateful that the presidency of the council has had three very extensive discussions with the parliament's delegation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. however, when someone points to the right questions, three fingers usually point back to that one. this is also true of the question of sustainable development. the one finger is our agricultural policy. how can we really demand a change in world production if we prevent fair trade through our agricultural policy, through subsidies, when our agricultural subsidies are many times what we spend on development aid? second finger: what about the fair trade system of this earth? the current situation of coffee growers calls for a major overhaul of the trading system and also of international financial flows, which must be directed towards fair investment and not short-term profit maximisation. the third finger is certainly pointing to the question of sustainable policies in our own activities. how are we managing to make transport and households sustainable in the european union? only if we can make it clear that we ourselves are doing what we ask others to do, will we have credibility in the world. that is why the climate change programme we are discussing here is an important building block for combining the environmental policy's rationale with economic efficiency and social justice. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i rise to speak on the rules of procedure. i think we should ask the commissioners to make their comments after the debate and not in the middle of it. now it's the mps' turn!
- mr president, i have to go. i am speaking on the hulthén report as the shadow rapporteur for the epp group, but i cannot help but be surprised at the behaviour of commissioner nielson in particular. the report by the colleagues who were in johannesburg and the way it was presented here today make me doubt whether it is really sensible to allow a parliamentary delegation to participate in such summits in this way. but now to the hulthén report. i thank mrs hulthén for her excellent report on climate change. the flood in germany and the neighbouring countries has, so to speak, washed this issue back up. while we can't say that this particular flood was already an effect of climate change, we all know that such events are going to increase if we don't act fast now. that is why the european climate change programme is important, but the concrete measures proposed by the commission so far are not ambitious enough. the commissioner knows that i am very much in favour of mr moreira's efforts to improve the commission's proposal and not to water it down. the commission's proposal on emissions trading is only one part of a wider strategy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we're still waiting for the energy efficiency proposal on appliances. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a very brief overview of the situation in the community. i would like to draw the attention of the house in particular to paragraph 16 of the hulthén report. it is about the abolition of subsidies which are harmful to the environment and the climate. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of a carbon neutral tax on all non-carbon trading activities. i think that the commission should be aware of the fact that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
- mr president, i have to go. i have just received confirmation from various fisheries ministers in iceland in reykjavik. these fisheries ministers came from the usa, chile, norway, sri lanka, tunisia, the faroe islands and so on. they say unanimously that johannesburg is right in its decision. there are rarely enough genuine political decisions. rather, all are quick to add a touch of glory to their personal or national egos, especially when the world public looks on. this time, however, there was a real decision in the area of sustainability and the severely handicapped fisheries sector. this agreement in principle was reached very quickly. the message is: "there is nothing more to discuss here. we must act. this is the appeal of johannesburg to the world. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. the reform of the european fisheries policy is burning us in the nails. it has a high value in itself and must not be used as a bargaining chip by overly transparent negotiating tactics and games to gain points in other policy areas. this is also called mutual acceptance at the expense of fishing. johannesburg has clearly recognized this. by 2015, the stock is expected to recover. now we have to spy. i hope we can do it! the european union is a great example of this, and we are all aware of the fact that the european union is a great example of this.
in writing. - (de) i voted in favour of the report on the representation of women in the bodies of the social partners of the european union. according to statistics published by the european trade union confederation, the proportion of women in managerial positions is less than 25%. that's way too little. i think that a balanced representation of women in the management bodies of the unions is essential because, through collective bargaining, they play an important role in promoting equal opportunities. various studies have shown that women's participation in collective bargaining is very low, with the result that women's interests are not taken into account in the labour market. women know what the actual working conditions of women workers are and where the inequalities are. if more women were present in the negotiating leadership positions, i am sure that the interests of women in the labour market would be better taken into account. i therefore invite the social partners to develop positive action programmes to strengthen the presence of women in decision-making bodies. the interests of working women cannot be ignored.
the council. - mr president, commissioner, members of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is, of course, a pleasure to speak to the european parliament about the progress of the european union in the field of the common foreign and security policy. as the committee's report points out, the eu is facing major global challenges. there are expectations among our own people and in third countries that the eu can help to resolve conflicts and reduce tensions around the world. i shall concentrate my remarks here on the following subjects: afghanistan, the fight against terrorism, the middle east, iraq, india, pakistan, russia and africa. as regards the icc, i refer to my other statement. my greek colleague, the minister for europe, mr tassos yiannitsis, will be explaining aspects of the work on the common security and defence policy, the esdp. as i said, i'm going to start with afghanistan. the situation is still fragile, but the loya jirga process remains a good basis on which to build. many more refugees and internally displaced persons than expected have returned home, showing that there is hope for the future of their country. unfortunately, afghanistan still faces very difficult challenges. the recent assassination attempt on karzai and other terrorist attacks are evidence of the serious security problems. without internal security, neither stable government nor sustainable development can be achieved. the role of the central government must therefore be strengthened and the influence of the warlords curtailed. the role and rights of civil society and women must also be strengthened. the afghan institutions and basic infrastructure must be rebuilt. reforms in the judiciary and police must be carried out and a national army must be set up under civilian control. the remaining refugees and internally displaced persons must be allowed to return and their reintegration must be supported. we urge the international community, in particular afghanistan's neighbours, to continue to support further stabilisation of afghanistan. the un has a very central role to play here through its special representative brahimi. the eu will continue to do what it can to help rebuild the country and to implement the bonn agreement in full. we promised to do so at the special debate at the un last week. we will maintain our strong commitment to humanitarian and reconstruction assistance, and the eu will closely follow the work of the new afghan human rights commission. we expect the eu member states involved to continue contributing to the isaf forces. the danish presidency will also give the fight against terrorism the highest priority. we are implementing the european action plan to combat terrorism as planned. we will continue our efforts to integrate the fight against terrorism into all aspects of eu foreign policy. to date, eu follow-up has focused in particular on eu internal actions, where significant progress has been made towards implementation. in particular, the eu's implementation of un security council resolution 1373 on the freezing of the financial and economic resources of terrorist groups should be mentioned. this work will of course continue under the danish presidency. in addition, building on the seville european council, the eu action plan and the council conclusions of 22 july 2002, the danish presidency will aim in particular to move forward eu policy on the eu's international role in the fight against terrorism, including in particular cooperation with third countries and relevant international organisations. in the seville declaration, the european council defined the contribution of the common foreign and security policy to the fight against terrorism, including the contribution of security and defence policy. the council adopted a series of decisions on 22 july to implement the seville declaration. this means, inter alia, a review of the counter-terrorism aspects of relations with third countries, including contractual relations with third countries and specific measures to assist third countries in fulfilling their obligations under un security council resolution 1373. the presidency will make sure that the council's conclusions are followed up by operational steps. a number of concrete steps have already been taken. i would also like to say a few words about non-proliferation and disarmament policy. we have reviewed non-proliferation and disarmament policies as part of the global fight against terrorism. we consider it very important that this non-proliferation and disarmament policy be strengthened and we take it up with everyone in the troika cooperation we have. on 15 april 2002, the council adopted 42 specific measures to help strengthen multilateral instruments, export controls, cooperation and political dialogue. the danish presidency is faced with two major challenges: firstly, to continue its efforts to ensure that the international code of conduct against the proliferation of ballistic missiles can be successfully implemented in the hague in november, and secondly, to strengthen the convention on the prohibition of biological and chemical weapons. in the middle east, iraq remains a serious source of concern regarding weapons of mass destruction. we agree with president bush on this point, as he emphasized in his recent speech to the united nations general assembly. iraq has violated several security council resolutions concerning its disarmament obligations. these commitments must be fulfilled immediately. the eu is determined to support the continuing efforts of the united nations in this regard. the security council has, inter alia, demanded that iraq grant unconditional and unhindered access to un weapons inspectors and ensure that its authorities cooperate to the extent required. the eu has fully supported this demand. on 16 september the government of iraq informed the secretary-general of the united nations that the government of iraq had agreed to allow the weapons inspectors to return. the security council is now examining whether the iraqi statement is consistent with the security council's requirements for arms inspections. the presidency agrees with un secretary-general kofi annan that the security council must live up to its responsibilities if iraq continues to refuse to cooperate. i'll tell you about the middle east. it is almost two years since the violent israeli-palestinian conflict erupted again. however, a number of positive developments, particularly in the area of reform, have recently - since the summer - given rise to cautious optimism. the eu considers that progress should be used to restart political negotiations between israel and the palestinians, which can provide both parties with concrete prospects for a peaceful settlement of the conflict. the eu has therefore endeavoured to put forward a concrete proposal on how to achieve this objective. at the informal meeting of foreign ministers in helsinki on 30 and 31 august this year, the eu finalised its proposal for a roadmap, or roadmap for peace, for the road towards the establishment of a palestinian state by the summer of 2005. the proposal, which gives substance to president bush's vision and the arab peace process of a palestinian state within three years and is based strongly on the arab peace initiative, provides for three phases: first, the conclusion this year of an israeli-palestinian security agreement to stop the violence and pave the way for palestinian presidential and parliamentary elections, which will probably be held on 20 january 2003. after these elections, negotiations on the creation of a palestinian state with provisional borders will begin in autumn 2003. we are now entering the third stage, which will see the conclusion of a final peace agreement addressing the difficult issues of jerusalem, borders, refugees and settlements, which must be resolved before the final establishment of a palestinian state in mid-2005. in parallel, in order to achieve a comprehensive peace, efforts must be made to restart the negotiations on the syrian and lebanese tracks so that the process can lead to a comprehensive peace settlement in the middle east. during my tour of the middle east in early september, the proposal was generally well received by the parties in the region. the arab countries welcomed the proposal. the proposal was also welcomed by israel, although israel expressed reservations about certain elements of the proposal. at the middle east quartet meeting on 17 september this year, it was agreed that the quartet would, in the coming weeks, seek to agree on a final joint roadmap for the three phases of the establishment of a palestinian state by august 2005, based in particular on the eu's proposals. the eu also supported the proposal to hold an international donor conference to support the palestinian reform process before the end of the year. the danish presidency of the european union has offered to host the conference and thus also the quartet meeting which is expected to be held in conjunction with the donor conference. the eu and the presidency are working in accordance with the declaration of the seville european council for the convening of an early peace conference which will be able to discuss and agree on a roadmap towards a lasting peace in the middle east. i have noted that the european parliament's committee on foreign affairs also shares this view in its latest report on the development of the eu's common foreign and security policy. the members of the middle east quartet agree to continue discussions on the timing and modalities of such an international peace conference. i have the clear impression that the members of the quartet share a very similar view of the situation and that we will therefore be able to reach a common roadmap relatively quickly. the danish presidency intends to continue along this line and to work actively for a detailed road map which can pave the way for a peaceful solution to one of the longest-running conflicts in recent history. i also noted that the security resolution of yesterday specifically mentions the need for the peace plan/roadmap of the eu and the quartet to move forward despite what has happened in the past week. as you all know, there have been two suicide attacks in israel. they are a bad omen for the progress that was otherwise on the way after the summer's task forces and working groups, after the quartet's endorsement and further development of the eu roadmap for peace. now we have these serious setbacks. we also had reason for optimism because, with the help of the eu, fatah and tanzim were able to declare a moratorium on attacks against israeli civilians. however, the actions of the past week show that militant groups such as islamic jihad have no intention of following the moratorium of fatah and tanzim. the presidency has expressed its deep regret to both sides, both for the palestinian suicide bombings and for the israeli retaliation. israel has the right to fight terror, but the harsh israeli retaliation, including the siege and shelling of arafat's headquarters in ramallah, will not bring peace and security to the israeli and palestinian people. the presidency has been in very close contact with the parties, as well as russia, the united states and egypt, over the situation in recent days, and we have sent representatives to the area. it is essential that the announced us/jordanian/egyptian support for the palestinian police and security forces be implemented very quickly, so that there is a unilateral security system on the palestinian side with which israel feels somewhat secure. we must not allow radical groups to derail political initiatives once again. radical groups also threaten the peace of the relations between india and pakistan, which remain tense. the eu remains ready to contribute to international efforts to alleviate the current crisis, promote confidence-building measures and create the conditions for dialogue between the parties on a lasting solution to the conflict. local elections are being held in jammu and kashmir in the coming weeks. the run-up to the elections has been violent and has given rise to concern. we hope, however, that the elections in jammu and kashmir will pave the way for a resumption of dialogue between india and pakistan on a long-term solution. india has opposed international election observers, but representatives of a number of eu embassies in new delhi are present during the elections. i shall then turn to europe, to our nearest neighbour, russia. the european union's attitude towards russia and russia's attitude towards us, of course, play a very important role in the peaceful development of europe. the preparations for the eu-russia summit in copenhagen on 11 november 2002 will give us the opportunity to take stock of five years of partnership and cooperation. we will face new challenges in connection with enlargement. we all know that. firstly, the presidency attaches particular importance to a rapid solution of the kaliningrad enclave issue. the council will discuss the study submitted by the commission on this question on 30 september with a view to finding a solution in accordance with community law and in consultation with poland and lithuania. russia is part of our strategy on the northern dimension, but we also intend to present a strategy for our new neighbours, because in the context of the forthcoming enlargement there will be a natural need to consider a new overall strategy towards the eu's neighbours to the east after enlargement, that is to say ukraine, belarus and moldova. the aim of such a strategy will be to promote democratic and economic reforms in the neighbouring countries and to strengthen crossborder cooperation with these countries. the council will review on 30 september 2002 the contributions already made on the eu's relations with the new neighbours. a communication to be presented by the commission in the autumn will of course complement these considerations and lead to a decision hopefully in december. now i'm moving away from europe, and we're going down to africa. as you all know, there are critical circumstances in southern africa where the eu is concerned about the worsening situation in zimbabwe, including the recent attacks on the media, the continued harassment of farmers and the appointment by president mugabe of a new hardline government called a 'war cabinet'. on 22 july, the eu tightened restrictions on zimbabwe by adding a number of names to the list of persons subject to travel bans. at the same time, the eu decided to continue its cooperation with the other international partners in order to find a solution in zimbabwe. the restrictions imposed by the eu are aimed at people we consider responsible for the crisis in the country. but the eu continues to support the people of zimbabwe who are suffering from the effects of mugabe's policies, by sending massive amounts of food aid to alleviate the hunger in the country and by offering social and medical assistance. the eu notes with growing concern the rapidly developing food crisis in southern africa and the worsening humanitarian situation. the community and its member states have already responded by providing food aid and humanitarian assistance totalling eur 490 million to the area. this assistance is mainly directed at the worst affected countries, namely zimbabwe, malawi and zambia. a number of policy decisions and measures taken by the governments in the region, in particular zimbabwe, have contributed to further worsening the already alarming humanitarian situation. we have therefore made it clear that food aid must under no circumstances be used as a political tool and that the recipient countries must ensure that it is distributed fairly and without any political considerations. finally, let me express the presidency's satisfaction with the outcome of the summit we have just had in copenhagen, the asem meeting. my impression is that everyone from the asian countries and the european countries was satisfied with the meeting. in addition to informal discussions, concrete initiatives were also put on the table, which will now be further developed, including possible asian youth sports games. we want to strengthen the links between europe and asia, and the opportunities for cooperation in the economic, political and cultural fields are great. before i give the floor to mr tassos yiannitsis, i would like to say that i agree with the report's comments on the success of the eu's efforts in the balkans. the eu has succeeded in bringing a region marked by disintegration and instability back into the general european development. the eu will make a further substantial contribution to further promoting stability in the balkans by taking over the un police mission in bosnia on 1 january 2003.
council mr president, mr commissioner, honourable members of the european parliament, it is a great honour for me, as deputy foreign minister of greece, to address you today to inform you of the military and defence aspects of european security and defence policy. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the danish presidency in particular for its excellent cooperation in this innovative experiment of the dual presidency, which is not an easy one. i would like to begin by saying that the belgian and spanish presidencies have been very productive and have given a major impetus to the further development of european security and defence policy, and we must acknowledge this from this stage. there are a number of developments which i will mention. the first, and perhaps the most important, is that in the last year the official declaration in laeken that the european union is already ready to carry out certain operations and is gradually moving towards full operational capability, which will enable it to take on the most demanding of petersberg missions. the second point i would like to mention concerns the development of military capabilities, which is certainly perhaps the most important aspect of the completion of the union's operational capability, in which substantial progress has also been made. the conference on capacity building was held, which provided an opportunity for additional contributions from member states as well as from third countries, and the capacity action plan was adopted in laeken. the spanish presidency has also made a considerable contribution to the implementation of this plan. i would point out that the declaration of partial readiness at laeken is not merely theoretical. it reflects the political will to put the esdp mechanism into effect, even if it is still incomplete. in practice, this means that we have given the political green light to take on specific operations in the balkans, such as the police mission in bosnia and the fox task force in fyrom. the spanish presidency also placed particular emphasis on the related issue of armaments and took initiatives in this field. the fourth point concerns the first european union exercise, which took place during the spanish presidency and which allowed the procedures envisaged to be tested and to draw conclusions which will be of great help in the future in order to improve these procedures. in this procedural context of the operation of the civil defence and security mechanism, i should like to mention that the framework of guidelines defining the system of financing military operations, also a very important aspect, was adopted in seville. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the majority of the work has already been completed and some areas still need to be improved in order to implement the mechanism. on the other hand, relations between the european union and nato and the related question of the participation of european allies who are not members of the european union remain unresolved. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union has made a great deal of progress in the field of security and defence, and it is clear that the european union is not prepared to accept the new approach. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the programme, which is currently being prepared by the european commission. some point to the unfinished business of participation as the reason for this backlog. i would point out that this is not entirely accurate, because solving this issue will certainly facilitate the completion of the permanent arrangements, but the current backlog is not a reason to prevent progress on the individual issues. again, progress was made on this issue, which was reflected in the seville conclusions thanks to the efforts of the spanish presidency, which, in cooperation with the general secretariat and with the help of some partners more actively involved in the matter, drew up a compromise overall proposal before seville. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the presidency and the general secretariat are therefore continuing their efforts in accordance with the seville mandate. as regards relations with third countries, significant progress was also made in seville with the adoption of arrangements extending the arrangements agreed at nice on the involvement of potential partners such as canada, russia and ukraine in european defence and security policy. the european union's participation in operation task force fox in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has also been the subject of serious preparation. however, since one of the basic conditions for undertaking this operation is the completion of the permanent european union-nato arrangements, which does not appear to be possible by the end of october, other alternatives should probably be considered. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the european defence project, ladies and gentlemen, contributes to the demand of the european citizen, which is becoming more and more pronounced these days, for a stronger role for the european union in security matters. the european parliament, with its direct relationship with the european citizen and its sensitive approach to the major issues of the european union, we are sure will help in this new dimension that we are now building in the european union. we are aware that with the esdp we are opening up new avenues for the european union and the cooperation we will establish from the outset is very important. we shall make every effort to do so during our presidency. in conclusion, i would like to thank the european parliament and its president for giving me the opportunity to present the defence aspect of the policy for which greece has assumed the presidency for the current six months.
commission. – mr president, i have been asked to respond to both the brok and titley reports and to make a statement on the middle east as well. i should like to begin with the report by mr brok. this offers a very good overview of the progress achieved and the new challenges that emerged in 2001/2002. when we met here 11 months ago to discuss the previous cfsp report, we had just been hit by the terrorist attacks in the united states and the war in afghanistan. the picture today has changed dramatically. the impact of 11 september on world politics has been immense. i agree with mr brok that there are currently four major tasks for our common foreign and security policy. none of them are easily met: firstly there is our partnership with the united states. the complexity and diversity of this indispensable partnership inevitably generate a certain degree of friction. we stand united against terrorism, we share similar values. but our interpretation of these values is not always identical. united states leadership since the war has been based on two pillars, represented perhaps by the work of president truman and general marshall: first containment of threat; second the establishment of a global rule book and of global institutions which could encourage democracy, open markets and the rule of law, both on continents and internationally. that approach, which produced so much prosperity and stability for the last half of the last century, is still the right approach today. that is why all members in this house are united in thinking that the right way of approaching the problem of iraq is through the means of the united nations. in our cooperation with the us, but also more generally, the european union has shown resolve in the pursuit of this multilateral approach to foreign policy. we strongly believe that multilateral arrangements and conventions, the un, the g8, the osce and others are the key to tackling the security, development and environmental problems which confront the world. the structures of esdp and its relationship with nato are of particular concern. i am worried that despite almost indefatigable efforts of many, the berlin-plus issue remains unsettled with consequences, as we know, for our aspirations in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. finally, bilateral relations have continued to expand in the past year with virtually all major countries in the world. among them, russia is an increasingly important strategic partner. today, we have an ambitious, comprehensive, bilateral agenda with russia, including a structured and intensive dialogue on common foreign and security policy. this partnership also helps us to address sensitive issues like chechnya. i broadly agree with mr brok's remarks regarding the agenda of our regional policies. the report includes a series of proposals which are welcome, such as the creation of a euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly, fresh initiatives for our partnerships with asia and latin america and support to the new partnership for africa's development in sub-saharan africa (nepad). there are four issues that i would like to touch on in particular. in the western balkans we need to ensure that we work together to preserve the integrity of the stabilisation and association process. those agreements should not be seen as political goodwill signals. it is in no-one’s interest to finalise agreements with countries before the objective criteria for an agreement have been fulfilled. regarding iraq, i spoke to the house on this subject earlier this month and said that we must continue to press for full iraqi compliance with the un resolutions. the political action on iraq at present is in new york and that is exactly where it should be. afghanistan is an issue i remain seriously concerned about. the assassination attempt on president karzai and the bomb in central kabul earlier this month are just the most recent examples of the fragility of afghanistan. we must not spare efforts to help the central government extend its authority to the entire country. at the un, in the margins of the general assembly, i attended an important meeting of afghanistan's principal aid donors at which we underlined the importance of delivering as rapidly as possible on our respective pledges. the regional agenda, important as it is, must not stop us from thinking ahead. there are long-term strategic issues that we need to keep in sight. there is firstly, for example, the institutional framework for the common foreign and security policy. the architecture of the treaties is complex and our work on cfsp is right at the institutional frontiers. the work of the convention will soon produce new proposals to improve the present arrangements. i look forward to participating in the discussions of the dehaene working group. secondly, there are preparations for the consequences of enlargement on cfsp and esdp. enlargement will have a major impact on the common foreign and security policy. together with the danish presidency, we have started thinking about the consequences of this. we have to make cfsp structures responsive enough to cater for 10 or more new member states. through the wider europe initiative we will look more closely into how to organise relations, and whenever possible, seek partnership with the 'near abroad' in the east, the south-east and the south. thirdly i should mention crisis management and conflict prevention which must become a cross-cutting issue for all cfsp and external relations initiatives. our work on conflict indicators will be instrumental in gearing diplomatic action and aid programming towards conflict prevention and crisis management. we need to implement the göteborg programme for the prevention of violent conflict and we need to further strengthen our human rights and democracy promotion policies. there are many examples of how cfsp yields operational results when we effectively pool national and eu resources, both in the commission and in the council. i look forward to working with parliament on improving our mechanisms for this and in extending full democratic control and accountability to the field of cfsp. but i must say, and i hope it will not be regarded as a revolutionary observation, that however much we discuss improving instruments, however much we discuss institutional architecture, in my judgment on the basis of three years' experience there is no substitute for political will. secondly, let me refer briefly to the admirable report by mr titley on the code of conduct on arms exports. that code is politically binding on the member states, and the commission has a limited role in this process. we nevertheless welcome progress made in the council with respect to improving the implementation of the code and enhancing transparency provided through the annual report. we welcome parliament's intensive interest in this subject and in particular the constructive and very ambitious stance of mr titley’s report which encourages the council to pursue and improve further its work in this area. we share several of the suggestions presented in the report, such as those referring to arms-brokering activities and the production of military goods under licence, as well as the control of the end user of arms exports. we also welcome the suggestions for all member states to publish national annual reports for ensuring the maximum involvement of the accession countries in information exchange and denial notification as well as for promoting adherence to the principles of the code by third countries. the presidency has spoken about the middle east and about the positive atmosphere at our quartet meeting of 17 september. i am sure parliament is aware of the huge amount of work the danish presidency put into the preparation of this meeting. it was constructive and the meeting served to set the basis for a possible peace plan, as well as for further international support for palestinian reform. unfortunately the situation on the ground gives no reason to believe that things will get any better soon. there was a six-week period of calm – calm of a sort, at any rate, even though during that period 50 palestinians were killed. then there were the despicable suicide bombings. there was also the bombing of the palestinian school and so the violence increased again. to be fair there were some signs of improvement which have passed largely unacknowledged. we were encouraged by the declaration of fatah/tanzim of their intention to stop attacks on israeli civilians. foreign minister shimon peres called the fatah document a 'first dawn of a different season, hopefully' he added, 'spring'. but this new understanding seems to have evaporated and the palestinian authority and president arafat have again become the target of an assault in retaliation for suicide attacks by those who do not believe in peace. let me stress once again – as i have done on several occasions in this house – that we must continue insisting that the palestinian authority does everything possible to stop terrorism. we should exert the utmost pressure on the palestinian authority to prevent terror attacks and to bring terrorists to justice. but how does it help the cause of peace to deprive the palestinian authority of the power and means to do any of these things? how does it improve security to destroy the palestinian authority? how does the isolation and attempted humiliation of president arafat and the palestinian authority contribute to the fight against terror? or, for that matter, attempts to drive him into exile. no wonder the secretary-general of the united nations described israeli policy this week as bankrupt, as being likely to increase extremism rather than reduce it. on a less gloomy note, the quartet reviewed the palestinian reform process which seems to be on track in as much as this is possible under the current situation. the reform of financial and budgetary management is continuing with european union support and under european union pressure. in this context i welcome – as a positive first step – the decision by israel to pay usd 45 million in frozen tax transfers to the palestinian authority through the same bank account and the same monitoring mechanism which was set up as a result of our support to the palestinian authority. i repeat: through the same bank account and using the same monitoring mechanism which was set up as a result of the efforts of the european commission and the european union. i hope that the irony of that remark is not lost on some of those who have been criticising the efforts that we have made in order to promote the cause of reform in the palestinian authority. and i hope that israel will immediately release the remaining money. a wide sector of palestinian society regards elections as a crucial part of the reform process. the pressure for elections must be maintained. the events in the palestinian legislative council over the past week and the resignation of the palestinian cabinet shows the emergence of a real democratic debate within palestinian society. this is a very positive sign of parliamentary life. i sincerely hope that a new palestinian cabinet dedicated to the reform process is formed soon and that the achievements of the past few months are not destroyed. the european union is ready to provide assistance if there is a minimum guarantee that the elections will be free and fair. whilst we fully support palestinian elections and the need for palestinian people to elect their own leadership, we continue to caution against elections if the legal, administrative and logistic framework for elections, including the political environment, is not in place. and how can those things be in place if there are closures, if there are curfews, if there are tanks in the streets? but despite the progress on the reform agenda the humanitarian and economic situation continues to deteriorate. this has been recently highlighted by un envoy catherine bertini in her sobering report on the humanitarian situation in the palestinian territories: two thirds of the population is under the poverty line and up to half of the population is currently unemployed. the situation must dramatically improve if we are to avoid a humanitarian catastrophe. but we must do much more than fighting the symptoms of the crisis. we must address its causes. providing humanitarian assistance can only be a short-term approach – improving the economy must be our goal. let me mention here that the european union's humanitarian work is severely affected by the restriction of movement, not just within the palestinian territories but on arrival at the border. this year so far we have had over 20 cases of israel denying entry to eu humanitarian teams. finally, the quartet agreed to hold in november a ministerial-level meeting of the ad-hoc liaison committee, involving the major donors in the international community. the meeting will review the economic and humanitarian situation in the west bank and gaza, as well as efforts to support and encourage the reform process in the palestinian authority, including the prospects for elections. i should like to bring to parliament’s attention the fact that donors will inevitably be asked to identify the possibilities of additional funding. i should warn parliament i am likely to come back to parliament and the budgetary authority as a whole on this in the near future. over the last six months we have made some political progress. the perspectives are much clearer now; and the palestinians and the donor community are working hard on building institutions and reforming existing structures. but there is a danger of this becoming a sort of virtual politics, while the real situation on the ground goes from bad to worse to appalling. every day we talk of peace; every day people die – palestinians, israelis. how much longer must this go on? how much longer must israelis and palestinians live in gethsemane? (applause)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would remind you, as the president of the sitting, that rule 120 (5) of our rules of procedure states: 'the commission and the council shall normally be given the floor in the debate on a report immediately after the rapporteur has explained it.' now you will see that although the council is giving an explanation here, the report is on the agenda. i do not think that is the proper way to treat the work of committees in the house with respect. thank you very much. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr møller, mr commissioner patten, mr deputy minister of defence of greece, mr yiannitsis, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union, and it is not surprising that the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the union. i should like to begin by thanking the two rapporteurs, mr brok and mr titley, for the excellent reports they have produced. (interruption of the debate) mr swoboda, we can discuss this further. i would not have objected if the two rapporteurs had presented their reports, but that was not my decision, and i have no reason to question the president's decisions, so it is not my question, and that is why i do not want to comment on it. the european union's foreign policy is a positive element, but one that we have not yet mentioned. this is the accession of the central european countries to the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is actually a great success story that we are now soon - we hope by the end of this year - to conclude negotiations with apparently ten countries in europe. this is one of the great achievements of european policy. the balkans were mentioned, and that too is a positive development. the european union plays a positive role in these areas in terms of stability, security and democracy. we have spoken of afghanistan, and the europeans are also taking action here. 13 of the 15 european union countries are involved militarily or otherwise in afghanistan. the really surprising thing is that, although we - the european union and its member countries - are the biggest donors, this is hardly noticed. if the americans give a million dollars somewhere, the whole world knows about it. i sometimes get the impression that if we give a billion euros, that is europe's best-kept state secret. we need to think about how we can improve our public relations. on iraq: we strongly support the american president's efforts to involve the united nations in this matter and we call on all the member states of the european union to take a common position together as europeans. we consider it irresponsible for member states or one member state to take a particular approach. this not only damages relations between this country and the united states of america, but it also shows a lack of solidarity with europeans in the european union. we can only influence american and world politics if we act together as europeans. we must now expect the iraqi dictator to open his country to inspections - the british government presented an important document yesterday - and if these inspections on the ground are not possible, then the iraqi dictator will ultimately bear the responsibility for this if military action is necessary. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we insist that the spiral of violence must be broken, the terror of the suicide squads must end. but israel's reactions are also completely inappropriate, the palestinians also have dignity. i can therefore only encourage the council and the commission to stick to their policy of talking sensibly to both sides. others do not do it this way, we have an important role to play, because both sides - one perhaps a little more than the other - trust us. as europeans, we must also reach out to those whose dignity is being violated. we are very clear: israel has the right to live within secure borders, but the palestinian people also have the right to live in peace and within secure borders. we must also give the representatives of the palestinian people the opportunity to express themselves and to show a sensible path to the future. the greek deputy minister of defence rightly pointed to the lack of an agreement between the european union and nato on access to the planning facilities and military capabilities of the north atlantic alliance. we hope that an agreement will be reached soon and we also call on our turkish partners to contribute to a solution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we hope that the convention will make important proposals in this regard, and if the european union is as capable of action and as committed as it is in afghanistan, then this must also be expressed through institutions that act effectively. the european union is not a party to the convention, but it is a party to the convention, and we are not going to be able to agree to it. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i believe that the european union has given a great demonstration of its capacity for peace, both in its history and in its present behaviour, namely the development and enlargement of the european union itself. it is a zone of stability, democracy and prosperity, and the enlargement of the european union is an extension of that zone. i believe that this is a decisive reason for the need for a european policy of its own to go further in these areas. we must also build bridges to those parts of our continent which cannot, should not or do not want to be members of the european union today. for example, the relationship with russia is crucial to the enlargement of the european union, a positive relationship must be established here, we must not build new borders, but these borders must become bridges. commissioner patten, what the commission has now proposed in connection with kaliningrad seems to me to be a step in the right direction, to find a point of departure which takes account of the interests of the small countries, their sensitivities and their claims to sovereignty, which at the same time makes their schengen capacity possible, but also takes account of the fact that russia has a certain interest here. i hope that these negotiations will lead to a constructive outcome that takes both sides into account. i know that the danish presidency is particularly interested in this question. the european union is also on the right track on other issues, such as the barcelona process. we should be proud to say that we spend three times as much money on prevention in foreign policy from the budget of the european union as the united states does from its budget. we should also talk about the positive elements. but - and here comes the big but - on the real issues of war and peace, europe still has no voice. what we have shown in the context of iraq in recent weeks, whether it is that washington is being uncritically followed, or that it is being uncritically said no for electoral reasons, means that there is no common european position. but only together can we exert the necessary pressure so that the dictator will put his hands off weapons of mass destruction and be forced to the other side of the process of deliberation with the united states of america, which takes into account both the risks of military intervention and all the possibilities of a peaceful solution to this problem of eliminating weapons of mass destruction in the hands of saddam hussein, in cooperation with the united nations. we have not demonstrated in either direction the capabilities to bring security to our citizens, a security that we know since 9/11 no longer clearly ends at certain borders, but that there is also the possibility that a few terrorists with dangerous weapons are operating in the midst of our own countries and are capable of taking thousands of lives. this is because most people in our member states have not yet understood that, given the smallness and weakness of the member states, national interests can only be safeguarded if we pool our capabilities. it is only when we have really understood this and made it clear to our citizens - no, the citizens will make it clear to the governments, because 70% of the citizens in the european union are in favour of a european security and defence policy! it is only in the foreign ministries of our countries that this has not yet been understood! this is also linked to military capabilities. i'm sure the 60,000 strong rapid response force will be on paper by next year. but will it have any effect, since it is blind and lame, because it has no transport capacity and no satellite capabilities? is it really fit for action so that it can contribute to the maintenance of peace? we are not going to be able to do that, but we are going to have to do it in a way that is not too difficult to do. mr titley will explain this in more detail in his report. have we solved the amber fox and macedonia problem yet? do we have the necessary arrangements to prevent the european union and turkey from blocking each other? all of this shows that we have not really made any decisive progress on the issues of war and peace because of national showoffs and egotism. i think that some of the things that were said about good after 9/11 are now forgotten and locked away in the drawers of governments after they were first released. let us take the question of external and internal security. let's take a look at the big speeches that our 15 heads of government made after 9/11, and see what they did. then we will also recognize this as a low. i believe that our projects can only succeed if we create a framework in which a common european will can develop in the field of foreign, security and defence policy. that is why this convention is so important. we must create an institutional reform in which europe speaks with one voice, and that is with a voice that is subject to parliamentary control, whose budget is subject to parliamentary control, that is to say, with a voice coming from the commission, whereas such an external commissioner should of course have a special link of legitimacy with the council. but the construction of the dual structures that are now being preached in such a grand way - which has nothing to do with the actors at the top doing excellent work - costs money and 80 per cent of the energy goes into the infight instead of developing european positions outward. it's part of our human nature, but i think we should overcome that. with 25 member states soon, this will not work at all! this shows that the european union must finally recognize its interests in these matters. i believe that the citizens are more than we are politically, and that is why we as the european parliament should be very firm in this campaign. the member states are the ones who are weakening europe. we should make europe stronger again! (applause from the right)
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. the helsinki summit gave the impression that we were indeed on the way to a common european defence policy. at that time, the heads of state and government also set ambitious targets, and in the initial months it was assumed that these targets could be achieved relatively quickly and within the timeframe envisaged. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the fact that today it is being proposed that nato should deploy and build up a crisis intervention force shows that our american friends have lost confidence that we europeans are actually making the necessary decisions. this should encourage us to take a new step in this direction, because i believe that this european crisis intervention force is an essential step towards securing peace in the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i should like to thank mr titley for his excellent report. we have common rules on arms exports, we have a common code, a common code of conduct, but these rules are interpreted differently. we have recently seen that an export was banned in one member state and then allowed in another. this must not happen again in the future, because we need common rules, but also the application of these rules must be common. it is likely that a code of conduct will not be enough, but that these rules will also need to be enshrined in law. we are on the way to a common market, particularly in the field of defence, when we are talking about arms exports. i therefore think it is important that when we talk about the movement of arms within the european union and then the export rules are unfortunately no longer applied, that movement is facilitated. the 15 countries of the european union are all a community of democratic values. i therefore believe that this is possible and that it will also lead to substantial savings, estimated by experts at eur 240 million per year. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would therefore like to see more attention paid to this debate. when we talk not only about foreign policy but also about defence policy, we are talking about the question of war and peace. only democratically elected parliaments can decide on this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. i should like to dedicate my contribution to the excellent report by mr titley. the cessation of arms deliveries and licensing is one of the most effective methods of conflict prevention, and this also applies to the middle east. if you look at the figures for last year's deliveries to the middle east, there are many things that are not surprising. although it is the european union's objective to put conflict prevention first - because it is cheaper than ending military conflicts afterwards - it continues to export its products to conflict zones. the belgian government is supplying firearms to the civil war-torn region of nepal, the united kingdom is violating criterion 3 of the code by supplying screens for combat aircraft, and sweden, france and the united kingdom are violating criterion 4 of the code by supplying heavy military equipment to india, with no consequences in view. this is precisely the weakness of the code, because it is not binding and does not provide for sanctions against those who still supply weapons to conflict zones. we should not be surprised if the taxpayers complain because we, as the european union, on the one hand provide development aid to these countries and then on the other hand they are destroyed by their own war machine. that is why the code of conduct must be designed to stop arms transfers to crisis areas. that must be our goal! (applause from the centre)
the council. - madam president, commissioner, members of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. as the agenda indicates, i have been asked to make a statement today under the heading 'the situation with regard to the international criminal court (icc) following the informal meeting of foreign ministers in helsinki on 29-30 august 2002'. i am aware that the request for this explanation is to be seen in the light of parliament's wish to be kept informed of the considerations in the eu in connection with the united states' request to the member states to conclude bilateral agreements aimed at preventing the transfer of us citizens to the court of justice. it is quite understandable that members of this house are concerned about this matter, just as parliament was concerned about the american service members' protection act (aspa) in the united states, as the preservation of the integrity and efficiency of the court is of central importance to us all. i would like to point out at the outset that since the helsinki meeting there have been other developments in relation to the icc and i hope that they will have a more positive and long-term impact on the issues currently affecting our friends on the other side of the atlantic. the first meeting of the icc states parties was held in new york from 3 to 10 september. i am pleased to report that this general meeting went well. it had been well prepared by the preparatory commission (prepcom) in new york. the draft texts presented were completed thanks to the remarkable and concentrated efforts of all the delegations during the 10 meetings of the preparatory commission. we are pleased that the same productivity and willingness to compromise was shown at the first icc general assembly, so that the documents before us could be adopted without anyone being tempted to reopen the discussion on the compromises on which consensus had previously been reached. the time has come to focus on the functioning of the hague criminal court. it is now up to diplomats and politicians to give the court the opportunity to complete what was begun in rome and continued in new york. the icc must establish itself as an effective and independent institution capable of meeting the demands of the international community today. the court must exercise its jurisdiction effectively and independently in the same way as we expect it to do in our national legal systems. of course, the ability of the icc to function properly will depend on the absence of serious obstacles. and that brings me to the problem i mentioned at the beginning, which i think is also of great concern to this house, namely the question of the united states' request for bilateral non-extradition agreements. ladies and gentlemen, as the presidency has said on previous occasions, the eu and the united states share the same fundamental values. we are both committed to freedom and democracy, to the defence of human rights and the rule of law and to accountability to the courts. that is why we have always believed that the united states should be among the parties to the rome statute. the united states could make a very positive contribution to the court and its functioning. since 1998 we have tried to accommodate american concerns about certain provisions of the statute, but these efforts have been in vain, as the summer showed. members of this house will be familiar with the latest part of the story: namely, that the united states, in a declaration on 6 may this year, decided that the united states did not intend to participate in the statute which the united states actually signed during the clinton administration. we believe that the us decision is wrong and the eu has publicly deplored the us move. i do not wish to bore members or prolong the time with too many details, but i think it would be useful to briefly place in this context the discussion we had in helsingør on the bilateral agreements. the united states' request for bilateral agreements was first discussed by the council in the political and security committee (psc) on 26 july. the psc agreed on a provisional joint response that member states could provide to the us during bilateral contacts. the joint response was essentially to tell the americans that the eu is firm in its commitment to support the integrity of the icc and the rome statute, that the us proposal has far-reaching implications which require a closer analysis, which we also invited the candidate countries to participate in; and that we will come back with a response as soon as the analysis is completed. the political and security committee (psc) decided to return to the matter at the beginning of september, after the council of international law experts (cojur) had discussed the matter on 4 september. in the meantime it was decided that it would be useful to have a brief discussion of the matter at the meeting in helsingør at the end of august. we agreed that the eu should not accept anything that could undermine the international criminal court. we also agreed that the eu should not escalate its difficulties with the united states but that we should look at the possibilities of meeting the united states. we confirmed that the legal experts should look at the matter with a view to reaching a common assessment which could lead to agreement on a common constructive line on the part of the eu at the council meeting on 30 september. ladies and gentlemen, we are at the end of the reflection period. at the eu-us meeting in new york, we agreed - the us and the eu - to see if we could find a common position. it also means that the united states was willing to move, otherwise there was no need for further analysis. the commission has therefore drawn up a number of guidelines. the eu is agreed that any solution must take account of relevant agreements already concluded with the us and must be based on three fundamental principles which must be reflected if the integrity of the rome statute is to be preserved. it is clear that the present american proposal is incompatible with the obligations towards the criminal court. on the other hand, it is not a solution to simply reject it on that basis, but on the contrary, as i said, we are trying to find a line which can both respect the court of justice and ensure that we can also have an arrangement with the united states. these principles concern the question of avoiding impunity for the most serious international crimes, the question of reciprocity and the question of the circle of persons. as regards the question of impunity - which is contained in the american proposal - if a solution is to be found, it must contain an appropriate provision excluding impunity for persons who have committed crimes within the jurisdiction of the court, that is, no impunity for people who have committed crimes within the jurisdiction of the court. as for the question of reciprocity, then we do not want reciprocity. it is not acceptable to reach a result which excludes the extradition of nationals of icc states parties. as regards the circle of persons, the united states wants a rule that excludes all persons from extradition to the icc - that is, all american persons. the eu agrees that a solution will only be able to cover certain categories of persons from non-participating countries. the details of the staffing restrictions will be discussed until 30 september. i would like to stress that our analysis and considerations are by no means complete, they are continuing. the legal experts of the presidency held a meeting with the american interlocutors as late as yesterday to exchange views and information. we will now work hard to reach a solution which can meet the concerns of the united states, if possible and if it can be done without undermining the court in any way. both in bilateral contacts and in a meeting with the us secretary of state, mr powell, as i mentioned, we have made it very clear how important it is for us that the spirit and the letter of the rome statute be respected. i have also said this at the meeting i had on 3 july and again last week in new york. in my opening remarks today i stressed that the time has come for the criminal court to demonstrate its ability to function as an effective and independent judicial body. we must hope that the united states will be persuaded to adopt a more positive line when the criminal court has had the opportunity to demonstrate in practice that it operates in accordance with the highest standards of legal certainty and is not subject to political abuse.
commission. – madam president, i am very pleased to speak today about the european commission's continuing support for the rome statute and for an effective international criminal court. i believe, as parliament does, that the creation of the international criminal court represents a critical milestone in the evolution of international human rights law. no longer will tyrants gain impunity for genocide, war crimes, and crimes against humanity – including widespread murder of civilians, torture and mass rape – by hiding behind the cloak of national sovereignty. no longer will the international community have to create international criminal tribunals after the fact – after the crimes that we all deplore have already been committed. in the 21st century, potential tyrants and mass murderers will know in advance that the international community is prepared to hold them accountable for massive violations of human life and dignity. it is our belief and our hope that this awareness will help to reduce the frequency and the severity of such crimes. but when it does not, and the relevant national legal authorities are unwilling or unable to act, the international community will have in place a complementary system of criminal justice that is fair, transparent and effective. the european union fully supports the court. the principles of the rome statute, as well as those governing the functioning of the icc, are fully in line with the principles and objectives of the union. the consolidation of the rule of law and respect for human rights, as well as the preservation of peace and the strengthening of international security, in conformity with the charter of the united nations, and as provided for in article 11 of the eu treaty, are of fundamental importance to us. we have committed ourselves to the success of the icc. we have provided funds in projects to support the broadest possible ratification and implementation of the rome statute and we have committed more money for that purpose. of course, there is still real work to be done before the icc can function as intended. one challenge is to increase the number and broaden the geographical scope of states that have signed and ratified the rome statute. as of today, 139 states have signed the statute, and 81 have ratified it. these numbers are impressive, but need to be increased. we note a particular gap among asian states. the commission will continue to make every effort to encourage third countries that have not yet done so to sign and/or ratify the statute. we will also work with states that have ratified the statute to ensure the timely adoption of national implementing legislation necessary to cooperate with the court and to exercise national criminal jurisdiction over crimes covered by the statute. at the moment, of course, the most controversial issue is that of bilateral agreements under article 98 of the rome statute, to which the presidency referred. the commission supports the decision taken by the foreign ministers at helsingør to develop an eu response on article 98 that seeks to accommodate us concerns without in any way undermining the rome statute. as soon as the details of the european union position on article 98 are completed – i hope by the end of this month – we will work with the candidate and eea states to maintain a united front on the icc. with regard to the longer term, the commission also supports an ongoing dialogue between the european union and the united states on the future of the international criminal court. an open eu-us dialogue on these matters is critical to the ultimate effectiveness of the court. we disagree with the united states about the court. we are sorry that all the reassurances we gave during the negotiations, and subsequently, have been ignored. we are sorry that they have declined to take 'yes' for an answer. so be it. without any acrimony, but with steady determination, we must get on with the task of making the court a success. there is an obvious challenge in doing that. that is to ensure that the nomination and election of the icc’s judges and chief prosecutor are fair, transparent and fully consistent with the criteria set out in the rome statute. fairness, transparency and consistency are important to ensure the legitimacy of this new institution in the eyes of the whole world. european union member states should ensure that their handling of this process sets a positive example. parliaments, professional associations, and non-governmental organisations around the world can also contribute to this process by recommending potential candidates for consideration by states parties and by evaluating the qualifications of all those candidates. i only wish to add how much the entire commission appreciates the european parliament’s tireless advocacy on behalf of a strong and effective international criminal court. we look forward to continuing this positive relationship on behalf of the icc well beyond the court’s first operational session next autumn.
- madam president, mr møller, president of the council, mr patten, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to make two preliminary remarks. first of all, i would like to thank my colleague and friend arie oostlander very much for agreeing the resolution with the other groups so that we can then, i hope, adopt a broad common position tomorrow. secondly, we have had a little bit of a mix-up with the timetable here, and the executive committee of our group has been meeting since 5.30 p.m. it is quite advisable that the group chairman be present, so i ask for your understanding that i must leave immediately after my speech, which i have never done before. why did the international community create this international criminal court? it was created because the rome statute for the court states that the most serious crimes affecting the international community as a whole must not go unpunished. that is precisely the position of our group. our values are human dignity, freedom, democracy and the rule of law, and no one has the right to kill another human being or to violate his dignity, except in self-defence. this dignity is for everyone, for jews, for muslims, for christians, for hindus, for buddhists, for people of no religion, for people from large and small states, for all people on this earth. no one and no country has the right to escape punishment for crimes which concern the international community as a whole. no one, no person and no state is above the law. we therefore want an effective and effective international criminal court, and i very much welcome the clear words of president møller and commissioner patten. we expect all the governments and parliaments of the eu member states to do everything possible to ensure that this international court of justice can work sensibly and effectively. we call in particular on the applicant countries not to enter into agreements until we have reached a common position within the european union, and i very much hope that you will succeed in reaching such a common position on 30 september. i very much regret that romania, as an applicant country, has concluded a treaty without first hearing the european union's position. this is not an act of solidarity with the european union. let me conclude by saying this: the resolution does indeed express some criticism of the united states, but that is no reason for us to adopt an anti-american attitude. we have to be able to say that, without ceasing to be partners and friends of the americans. in a partnership it is normal to express differences of opinion, and we europeans should also act more together. we have more reason to question ourselves than to criticize the americans. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the treaty on the international criminal court is an indispensable instrument for the enforcement of international law. the creation of this criminal court is a project of the european union and at the same time a symbol of our values. that is why this house regards the treaty as an element of the political criteria of copenhagen. the principle of this treaty is simple and clear. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. it is therefore absolutely incomprehensible that the demand is made that not all offenders should be brought before a court, but that some of them, regardless of the seriousness of their crime, should be exempted from criminal jurisdiction solely on the basis of possession of a certain passport. this demand of the bush administration would be totally contrary to the purpose of the international criminal court. it is not only absurd but unacceptable for two reasons. it is unacceptable, first of all, because the exclusion of all nationals of a state would allow only selective jurisdiction and would therefore render the principle of the universality of justice absurd. secondly, it is unacceptable because it considers all the citizens of a state to be potential war criminals. i strongly disagree with this anti-americanism. some countries - 12 so far - have yielded to the enormous pressure of the united states and signed a bilateral agreement with the united states. i deeply regret this and think that it will have consequences for our relations with these states. the european parliament will certainly take a very clear position on this tomorrow in a joint resolution by four groups - it is also an exception, madam president, that a joint resolution is tabled in this parliament. (applause from the centre)
- madam president! - what is it? the word romania has been mentioned several times today. i too believe that we should criticize not only the poor and the beggar who are being blackmailed, but also the very rich who are themselves blackmailing. this shows that we as the european union need a calm, sovereign attitude towards the united states, and we are not getting it. on the one hand, we have a head of government in london who pretends that his country is the 51st state of the united states. on the other hand, we have a head of government in berlin who talks as if he were confusing baghdad with washington, and he gets his first congratulations on the election of saddam hussein. i think both are wrong. we need a calm, sovereign, but critical and independent attitude towards the united states. this is in the interests of the united states itself. it is an appropriate response to september 11 to strengthen international law and its instruments, including the international criminal court, for which we have been fighting for years and which is an indispensable instrument. the fact is that the criminal courts for the former yugoslavia and rwanda are doing an excellent job. but they are constantly discredited by propaganda as a triumphant justice. you're wrong! but in order to have objective standards in the long term, we need to strengthen international criminal law in relation to crimes against humanity and genocide, and we need an international criminal court that is equal for all. we must be clear about one thing: history teaches us that the league of nations, for example, failed because that great idea came from the united states, but the united states itself did not participate in that league of nations. we appeal to our american partners and friends to join europe in strengthening international law and the international criminal court, otherwise we will be providing an alibi for states in the arab world, but also for china and russia - i am referring to chechnya and tibet - to ignore international law on their own territory. that is why europe must speak to the united states with confidence, but calmly and reasonably and in partnership.
- mr president, i have to go. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made his statement. i am very concerned that despite all their commitment to the international criminal court, the eu foreign ministers will be weak on 30 september and undermine the credibility of the rome statute behind clauses. if the universality of the criminal court is diminished, the rome statute is hollowed out. we cannot have a second-class right in international law. article 98 is not a basis for bilateral agreements because it was only intended for contracting states. it was an article that the americans themselves proposed. it does not apply between states which do not want to recognise the court of justice. i very much hope that on 30 november the eu will say no and not be soft-pedalled.
- madam president! - what is it? if i understand this correctly, parliament and the commission agree on the main points: trade barriers must be removed, integration must be promoted, europe must speak with one voice in the imf, etc. i don't want to do this again. i would like to make just two brief remarks, following on from the last remarks made by mr patten. first, i have been working with latin america for many years and i have been watching with horror, i have to say, that the importance of latin america in the world is decreasing every year, while the importance of asia is increasing. there must be reasons for this that go much deeper than just one or the other of these measures. we should talk about this openly. the second point i would like to make concerns a recent survey carried out in latin america. a portion of the population - about 20,000 people - was asked whether they believed that authoritarian governments could solve the problems more quickly than democracies. in 1996, only a minority of those polled favored an authoritarian regime; most favored democracy. today, over 50 percent of the population say, yes, we need authoritarian governments to solve our problems. in other words, the crisis we are facing today in latin america, and in particular in mercosur, is also a threat to democracy. this reminds me of the times in the 1980s and early 1990s when democracy was the main topic when we talked about latin america. we understood then that social and economic policies must be made so that people can have hope in democracy again. i think that it is therefore not superfluous to take latin america into account, otherwise we will only be writing resolutions on dictatorships here. (applause from the centre)
- madam president! - what is it? i am in favour of the solidarity fund. i do not believe that criticism of the international monetary fund or similar institutions is forbidden and sacrosanct. i also welcome what commissioner patten has said about the fact that certain import quotas in the agricultural sector have been or will be increased. but i think that even if we doubled and tripled all these measures, we would not solve the problem at its root. mercosur has everything it needs. it has oil, gas, all the important raw materials, agricultural products, with which it could feed not only all of latin america, but also europe. it has skilled people, it has a diverse industry. i would like to add to what mr linkohr has said: the causes of this crisis are deeper and not only economic reforms but political reforms are necessary. the main mercosur countries in particular have deep political problems. they have inefficient, in part corrupt, political systems. if you have been to a rich and prosperous country like argentina and have seen the desperate demonstrations of people of all political persuasions outside the casa rosada in buenos aires, demanding the resignation of all politicians of all parties because they no longer accept anyone, you will see very clearly that this is not just a temporary crisis, but a fundamental crisis of democracy and the political system. we must therefore take individual steps, of course, but without a fundamental reform of the political system in argentina, and also in part in brazil, this continent will not emerge from its crisis. the mercosur has so far, and this is a positive thing, as a market that prevents the worst, the weakest have supported each other, but in the long run, there must really be a healing of the political systems.
commission. – mr president, i should like to congratulate the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy and in particular the rapporteur, mr callanan, for the general support in their report. the commission's proposal to modify the recreational craft directive aims to avoid fragmentation of the internal market and seeks to integrate environmental concerns. as such, this proposal provides a good example of the synergy that is needed between environmental and industrial policies for the achievement of sustainable development. air and water pollution and engine noise from recreational boating activities have become increasingly sensitive issues. while exhaust emissions from recreational craft contribute little to the overall pollution of the marine environment, their local effects are nevertheless important. recreational boating activities are often concentrated in environmentally sensitive areas so it is important that this activity does not disturb local fauna. moreover, boating activities often take place at the weekend and in holiday periods resulting in a concentration of the nuisance they can cause to local inhabitants. i share with mr callanan the hope that the amendments that are adopted will deal appropriately with the need for harmonised reduction of exhaust and noise emissions, while at the same time avoiding over-regulation. i therefore welcome in particular amendment 14 to extend the 3 decibel sound allowance to the scope originally proposed by the commission. the commission can also agree with amendments 6 and 21 as they will provide for consistency in the references to 'placing on the market and/or putting into service' throughout the directive. also the first part of amendment 1 can be accepted, since it provides an improved wording of the recital. amendments 4, 5, 12 and 22 re-introducing the proposals to delete or reduce the provisions on the regulatory committee cannot be accepted by the commission. a regulatory committee is necessary for the efficient implementation and the regular updating of a specified range of technical elements contained in the technical annexes to the proposed directive. this approach is in line with the principles of better regulation. another important topic of debate has been that of the right to adopt more stringent requirements at national level. amendments have also been tabled to introduce at community level more stringent emission limits on standing inland waters. the commission cannot accept amendments 1, second part, 11 and 13, as they would fragment the internal market. amendments 16 to 20 and amendment 24 envisage changing the scope and timing of future work to be undertaken by the commission. they cannot be accepted as they would restrict the commission's right of initiative. in conclusion, the commission can accept the first part of amendment 1 and amendments 6, 14 and 21. on the contrary the commission cannot accept amendments 1, second part, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15 to 20 and 22 to 24. the commission is looking forward to working with parliament and the council towards a solution which on the one hand guarantees a high level of environmental protection and on the other hand meets the requirements of the internal market. i would like to thank the rapporteur and parliament for their efforts.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. this morning we had a three-hour debate on sustainable development. at the world summit in johannesburg, the european union launched a global water initiative. the initiative aims to achieve the sustainable development goals of the world summit on access to clean water and sanitation. and what are we doing, who want to achieve such ambitious goals worldwide, here in our own countries in europe? we're making a clean water bill that will cement yesterday's technology for tomorrow's development. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. unfortunately, our rapporteur, who is supposed to represent the majority opinion of the committee, is also among those who oppose this. unfortunately, those who oppose advanced technology include colleagues from political groups and countries who are always at the forefront of environmental and water protection and who cannot go far enough. if you go to a gas station in a large marina, you can see the amount of fuel, diesel, gasoline and oil mix that is being pumped in from these boats. a considerable proportion of this fuel is, by design, discharged directly into the water, unburned, together with the exhaust gases, because the exhaust is below the water surface. inland waters and lakes, which are often used to produce drinking water, accumulate pollutants. there is no major exchange. the density of boats is often particularly high on lakes. that is why we want to impose stricter requirements on these waters, i.e. stricter limits for pleasure boats. the technology, mr. callanan, is there. as an engineer, you should know that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the limits now set will not be complied with until 2005 for new boats put on the market. a boat owner who buys a new sports boat from 2005 onwards can use it to sail on all waters. i therefore urge support for amendments nos 1, 11 and 13. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, i have heard your arguments almost verbatim here in the house almost 20 years ago, in the mid-1980s, when you were talking about limit values for motor vehicles and the introduction of new technology. your country was at the forefront of the brake then, too. it's amazing that in two decades, we haven't learned anything about it. i believe that water is also the life of the future. we must do everything we can to prevent our waters from being polluted even more.
commission. – mr president, may i begin by expressing my disappointment that the people who have drafted this question are not here. despite that, i would like to answer the question, if only for the record and because other members present might be interested in the commission's answer. i shall begin by thanking members of this parliament for the interest they have shown in this important issue, namely the exhaustion of trade mark rights, whether internationally or just in europe. as members may know from our previous discussion on this issue which took place almost exactly one year ago – on 2 october 2001 – the commission undertook to prepare a report to parliament on this subject by the end of this year. as i stated in our previous discussion, i do not intend to reopen the investigation of issues that the commission has already studied. moreover, i explained at that meeting last year that the commission would only reconsider its decision not to propose a change to the current eu exhaustion regime if new developments justified that. to date, there have been no such developments. moreover, and as this relates more specifically to the questions raised by the members of parliament who drafted the question, i said last year that the commission would limit itself to investigating cases of possible abuse of trade mark rights, and especially, but not only, competition aspects. i would like to make it clear to members of this parliament that the commission has acted fully in accordance with the commitments i made on 2 october last year. i should like to add that in july this year, my services sent out questionnaires to over sixty companies and organisations representing many small and medium-sized enterprises, including both parallel traders and trademark holders, who might be at most risk from abusive restrictions on the sale in the community of trademarked goods. the results of this investigation, combined with our ongoing consultations with other commission services – in particular our colleagues in the directorate-general for competition – should allow us to build a clear picture of whether trademark rights are indeed being abused by right holders to stifle legitimate trade. that report, as promised at our previous meeting, will be transmitted to parliament by the end of this year. that is my answer to the question. i shall be most interested to hear what members have to say about it.
- mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i'd like to apologize for being a little late. the car that was supposed to pick me up arrived half an hour later than we agreed. that is why i have only heard part of the speech. but i got their point. the commissioner, the committee and parliament have not taken these decisions out of a sense of humour or for fun, but because we believe that the nera study you are referring to does not meet the requirements we are trying to attach to such decisions. this means that we have assumed in particular that these things, which are everyday things that every woman and every man, especially those from the poorer classes, buy, for example, jeans, shirts, polo shirts, sneakers and the like, are proven, without my needing a nera study, to be offered outside the eu by the same branded manufacturers with the same quality at half price or even cheaper. that's one of the reasons. the second reason is that we do not think that trademark law has the purpose of foreclosing the market, of allowing different pricing systems inside and outside the eu, in particular having the higher price inside the eu and the lower price outside the eu; rather, we think that this is a matter of competition and not trademark law. the function of trade mark law is to designate, identify, uniquely identify the manufacturer, the trade mark, the product and to confer certain rights on the proprietor of the trade mark. they must be, and we will defend them to the last. but a very different and distinct question is the question of exhaustion. in germany, we have had international exhaustion for about 100 years since the stamps were introduced. with this international exhaustion, we have achieved the economic miracle in germany, all the growth and everything. in the last five years since the european trademark law has been in place, we have seen the two-price system, we have seen that trademark law has come first for companies because trademark law is much easier to prosecute than the other rights that are actually product-related, namely the rights of design, patent, copyright and the like; this is a more difficult case. that alone is the reason, and trademark law cannot be stronger than competition law. that's why we asked these questions. that is why we have asked you as the commission not to refer to a nera study but to investigate and answer these specific questions. finally, the question that has arisen since the debate on trademark law at the time is: what about internet commerce? the internet is supposed to be here. we're funding it. if someone buys outside the eu and the trader sends the goods to the eu, then under the current legal situation, this is against trademark law. that can't be the point of trademark law. so once again we warmly ask the commission to do its own research on these few points and to report to parliament and not to refer to a nera study which in our view does not address these problems.
- madam president! - what is it? the information policy is a very important concern of the european parliament and i regret to say that the very well-arranged documents we send to our visitor groups contain very outdated information. the seat i am supposed to be sitting in has not been occupied for five months and i think that visitors looking at these maps - where is my member of parliament sitting - are being misled. i mean, i'm still a woman, but other people have men sitting in women's seats and so on. we should make sure that our brochures are up to date. my colleague mr bösch has just told me that other documents, for example, listing the governments, contain outdated information. i think we should make sure that doesn't happen in the future.
- mr president, i have to go. strasbourg is not only a symbol of peace, it has also become a symbol of human rights, civil rights and parliamentarism. the council of europe, which has a special interest in human rights, was founded here 53 years ago. the european convention on human rights was adopted here 52 years ago and the european court of human rights, which is our neighbour, is the result. fifty years ago, the european parliament met here for the first time. we celebrated the 50th anniversary of that this week. we also had our first joint meeting with the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe, which was perhaps a little difficult technically, but which, i must say, was handled brilliantly by those responsible. it was also a chance to finally bring these two institutions - the european parliament and the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe - closer together. the european ombudsman is also here in strasbourg, and he is the expression of our vision of a europe of citizens and a europe of human rights. it has been said on several occasions that brussels, as the seat of the commission and the council, has become increasingly synonymous with bad administrative practices. i think that's a little unfair. i must say this because there is a lot of good work being done in brussels in the administration of the council and the commission. the present commission in particular - i have been one of the commission's great critics for many years - and mr liikanen in particular have done a great deal to systematically improve the commission's administrative practice. however, there is still a tremendous amount of work to be done. i do not believe, as mrs hautala does, that citizens can be won over to european integration by introducing more direct democracy. what works perfectly well in the canton of appenzell - a small democratic entity - will not work so well in a community of half a billion people. this would lead to a society of hysteria of demagogues in television stations, who then rule politics. what we need is decentralization and the rule of law. there has been a lot of talk today about nordic culture. i appreciate that. the ombudsman is a nordic invention, but we are not the nordic community, we are the european community. the idea of supranational law is a roman achievement. that is why i was very pleased to hear something that mr gemelli said. he said: 'it is crucial that people feel they are citizens of europe.' it could also be said in latin, "civis europaeis sum". the european union will not be able to achieve its objectives until people can say this. that is why we need good governance, clear human rights principles, a europe based on the rule of law!
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the european union is trying to put future development cooperation with the acp states on a more promising and successful basis through the economic partnership agreements with the acp regions. the aim is to combat poverty in a sustainable way by means of greater economic exchange and ultimately to contribute to improving the income situation of the acp population. the acp states, through regional cooperation, should be enabled to establish their own functioning markets, which is a prerequisite for increasing trade with us in both goods and services. the mutual opening up of the market, particularly the large european single market, should enable them to market their existing and possibly newly developed high-quality products more effectively on this market and thus lay the foundations for the development of their economies. the eu is also offering a great deal of technical assistance to improve the skills of economic and administrative actors. the negotiations now under way should therefore focus on making the acp states a more capable economic partner, so that social and cultural development can also be given a further boost. the own-initiative report by mrs boudjenah - i regret to say this - would have to be substantially improved by the adoption of various amendments in order to strengthen the negotiating position of the european union and not weaken it, as is the case at present. we must try to find a lasting and realistic balance with the interests of the acp states. it is not, however, as this report has repeatedly suggested, a good idea to try to blame the commission. in recent months it has been engaged in a very active dialogue with the acp states, offering them proposals for their sustainable development, including technical assistance. it is important that they, with our help, speed up the creation of the new acp economic region. the outdated and inefficient system of preferences for certain imports must be replaced by a better system. both the wto rules and those of the cotonou agreement should be applied, but with flexibility and without upsetting their objectives. the opinion of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy - titley report - is essentially in line with our ideas. we are also calling for the opening of markets to be focused on goods and services, as provided for in the wto rules and the cotonou agreement. we have no single euro-african market, for example, and therefore there can be no general freedom of movement for workers. we are asking for liberalization to be handled flexibly with transitional periods, but not to exclude liberalization in important sectors of the economy. we also believe that there must be a high level of investment protection, otherwise this will lead to economic stagnation and regression, as zimbabwe and other countries are now demonstrating through their policies. we are not opposed to the eu providing technical assistance for the impact assessment of the establishment of free trade and economic regions in africa, but we are strongly opposed to making this a precondition for the opening of negotiations. otherwise, the reform of relations between the eu and the acp states may be blocked for a long time. we do not want to develop alternative rules for our relations with the acp states, we should stick to the rules of the wto and our cotonou agreement, which should be applied flexibly and with transitional periods. we therefore propose amendments which, if accepted, will enable us to vote in favour, otherwise we will vote against the report or abstain.
- mr president, i have to go. i would like to table an oral amendment to paragraph 5. the last sentence is: 'considers in consequence that signing such an agreement is incompatible with membership of the european union'. i would like the word 'signing' to be replaced by the word 'ratification'. it is much clearer, and it also means that the states that have signed it still have a chance not to ratify it. that is why i would like to have the word 'ratification' instead of 'signing'.
- mr president, i have to go. as you have very rightly said, my group has withdrawn motions nos 10 and 11 which were drawn up on a different basis, at a time when we were more hopeful, because of the current situation in the middle east. we shall therefore be tabled an oral amendment. after paragraph 4, the following is added:
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
- mr president, i have to go. since we as the european parliament are less inclined towards the intergovernmental side, i would replace the word 'council' with 'commission'. i would also like to congratulate mr van orden, whose initiative has led to the complete incorporation of article 5 of the treaty on european union into the constitution, without any exceptions. (applause from the centre)
in writing. - (de) as a member of the bavarian and german parliaments, i am deeply saddened by the outcome of this vote. on behalf of my colleagues in the csu - who, like myself, voted in favour of stricter limit values - i would like to emphasize that we have missed an opportunity to limit the pollution of rivers by pleasure boats for many years. unfortunately, it seems that modern technology is being deliberately curbed by the manufacturers of pleasure boat engines - we have an example in switzerland - in order to be able to argue as the rapporteur has done. it is precisely when we support sailing and motorboating and when we know that an increasing number of people are taking part in this sport and leisure activity that we should be encouraged to make this sport as environmentally friendly as possible. god knows there is really nothing to be proud of in the dubious result achieved today in the plenary.
in writing. - (de) the dismantling of agricultural export subsidies and of obstacles to food exports from developing countries is allowing the countries of the south to take their rightful place in world trade. in this respect, the relationship between trade, environmental protection and development, as reflected in the european agricultural policy, is often overestimated. disruptions in agricultural markets affect only a few products and should therefore be monitored in the light of their impact on sustainable development. the need for action means that in the wto negotiations so-called non-trade issues must be promoted more strongly. the wto can no longer avoid the protection of consumers, the environment, animal welfare standards. this need for action also implies the implementation of the development work of the 15 member states, as has been expressed on several occasions. the doha (trade) and monterrey (finance) decisions should be examined thoroughly and without delay.
- mr president, i have to go. i have to protect my colleague rübig. he could not say that this morning because the minutes are not approved until the afternoon. but i was going to say something else. the minutes of yesterday show that there was no question time and that the sitting was nevertheless closed at 22.20 hrs, much earlier than scheduled. so there would have been enough time for question time. i know that i will probably be told that the conference of presidents decided that, but the bureau - and i would ask you to tell the bureau that - is responsible for the respect of the rules of procedure. the rules of procedure clearly state that each of the 12 ordinary strasbourg plenary sessions - or at least that is how i interpret it - must have a question time. this is a parliamentary right and not a can-do provision. in this respect, i think that the cancellation of question time to the council and the commission this week was both a breach of basic parliamentary rights and a breach of the rules of procedure, even though we have enough time. we have only one debate left this afternoon. we could have had urgent debates this afternoon, but they have been cancelled. we have a coup d'état in côte d'ivoire at the moment, and we will deal with it on october 9th, when it is all over. i really ask that the organization of work be different from what has happened this afternoon and this week. (applause from the centre)
commission. - mr president, the honourable member's question concerns the interoperability of interactive television services and the role of the mhp standard. the question has five points, which i shall answer separately. firstly, on the first point, i can say that the adoption of the framework directive in the field of communications is a strong signal both for operators in the digital television market and for consumers. the guidelines will help to achieve three important objectives. first, give broadcasters access to networks and related facilities such as guides and electronic programmes. secondly, to avoid excessive regulation through the application of proportional access solutions and, finally, to provide benefits to consumers by contributing to the provision of a wide range of services. in view of the legal position established by article 18 of the framework directive on electronic communications networks and services, member states should encourage openness in the provision of an api application programming interface. no specific api technology or single api will be imposed. the mhp standard is a standard that meets the needs for interoperability and openness in this field. this is why we encourage the voluntary implementation of this standard by the industry. the second point concerns the date of publication of the applicable standards for hcm. my answer is that the list of standards will be published after the meeting of the committee on communications on 2 october. third, the use of non-standardised api technology can give a company market power. the directive provides for specific solutions which can be used by national regulatory authorities to control the market power of certain undertakings. because it guarantees interoperability and offers greater freedom of choice to users, standardization will certainly help to prevent monopolies from arising. however, competition in itself is not a guarantee of fair competition. dominant actors may emerge even in the presence of open standards. fourthly, as i said in my answer to the first question, the objectives of regulation are openness and interoperability. the mhp standard meets the needs for interoperability and openness in this field. that is why we are giving political support to the voluntary implementation of this standard by the industry. however, the sector also wants to continue the dialogue on interoperability, in particular on migration. we have therefore launched a debate and a sectoral inquiry on interoperability. fifth, in its plenary statement of 12 december 2001, the commission undertook to publish the relevant mhp standards in the list of standards to be published in the official journal, in accordance with article 17 of the framework directive. under this directive, member states are required to encourage the implementation of the standards contained in the list. secondly, the commission undertook to examine, one year after the entry into force of the directive, whether interoperability and freedom of choice for users had reached a satisfactory level in the member states. if this is not the case, the commission may propose to impose the use of these standards. in accordance with our commitments, we will provide the list of standards after the relevant committee meeting on 2 october, as i have just said. they are expected to be examined by july 2004. article 18 of the framework directive requires member states to encourage the use of an open api. the commission will therefore engage in a dialogue with the member states and the national regulatory authorities, through the committee. the mhp will of course be one of the subjects discussed in this dialogue. at present, widespread adoption of the mhp seems to be the most obvious way to achieve interoperability. businesses must take the initiative in developing migration strategies because migration itself poses many technical and business problems. we welcome the industry's sustained efforts to address these problems and to reach agreements at national or european level for the transition to mhp.
- mr president, i have to go. i thank you, commissioner, for your detailed answers to the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport's question, because that committee has been dealing with the question: how can we find a way in the digital age to guarantee the free flow of information and freedom of choice for viewers? how can we achieve this? we no longer need to have a dialogue, as we did with the decision on the telecommunications package and in particular the framework directive. today - and that is why we have asked this question - we want to hear from the commission what it can do to help us implement the decisions we took at that time. i would like to thank you for that today, because i think the commission's statements have shown a constructive way forward. i would like to stress once again that we have three main decisions. firstly, it is not just open interfaces, so-called apis, but these open interfaces must also be widely accessible, i.e. they must be interoperable. that is the objective we have agreed together in the framework directive. secondly, we decided that member states should encourage the introduction of interoperable technology. thirdly, we have decided that we have until july 2004 to complete this voluntary process. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. the commission has already announced that it will publish the technology and standards which meet these requirements. there is one standard which has been licensed by the european telecommunications standards institute, which is responsible for standards, namely mhp. that is why the resolution we are voting on today makes parliament's demand very clear. let us, however, promote the technology that will meet the demand unquestionably. that is why the resolution calls on the member states to present as soon as possible - let us say by the end of this year - an action plan on how to achieve this objective, so that we can actually have results by july 2004. so you see - and i thank all the colleagues from the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport, the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy who have been here - that we are referring to the decision and the voluntary implementation of this decision, but at the time and for the purpose that we have set. that is the reason for this resolution. we very much hope for the agreement and support of the commission and the member states, ultimately in the interests of the citizens. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. as a representative of a very strong but also very vulnerable media centre - munich - i welcome this request from the committee on culture and i welcome the debate today. i must say quite clearly that this european parliament has a very long tradition in media policy, not least in the field of television in europe. this started in the early 1980s with the very prophetic report prepared for european television by professor hahn, who was then a member of the european parliament from heidelberg and former minister of culture in baden-württemberg. it was far ahead of its time, although of course much of what was proposed then is long outdated by the development. but in the decades since then, this house has been very consistent in its support for european television, going as far as the telecommunications directive and the directive on television without frontiers. what were the two core elements? we have made it quite clear that we want to prevent the misuse of these necessary, correct and important technologies by setting very clear ethical standards. on the other hand, we have always said that it is a question of competition, not just competition within europe, but of european competitiveness as such. we are now seeing that this european market is increasingly threatened by non-european suppliers and non-european monopolies. i therefore believe that we must indeed take the path that has been proposed today, namely the path of voluntary convergence and approximation, which must not be abused to do nothing. i therefore very much support what mrs hieronymi said. we do need a deadline. we know that the member states - there are at least 15 now and there will soon be 25 or 30 - are not fast enough when it comes to action plans. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. otherwise, we will have to start thinking about how to speed up the process early next year. i agree with mrs echerer that it is hopefully not necessary for the commission to take action here with binding proposals and measures, but i am afraid that it may happen! i would therefore urge the member states once again to submit the action plan by the end of the year. we must be clear about one thing: we are concerned both with the competitiveness of europe as such and with the cultural diversity of this europe, which is what europe is all about, and - and this is an important point in this resolution - with the possibilities for small and mediumsized enterprises. the small and mediumsized enterprises are particularly needed here. we in the european parliament also see ourselves as the advocates of a mediumsized enterprise which may in some respects still shrink from the dimension we have before us. i thank you for your clear and precise answer, commissioner, but i would also like to say quite clearly: if the member states do not submit the action plan by the end of the year, we will have to talk again in january about what the next steps in this european union must be. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. unlike mr posselt, i do not represent the media centre in munich, which is in danger, but the media centre in cologne. i am not from cologne, nor is mr posselt from munich, but as a rhineland resident, i have a regional concern similar to that of mrs hieronymi. but if you hear me speak on a cultural and political subject here, it is because i have to take the place of my sick colleague karin junker, whose illness is of a very serious nature and who cannot therefore be present. mr president, if you hear me speak, and it has nothing to do with my intention to attack my christian-democratic colleagues vigorously in the usual form of a battle of principles between socialism and christian-democracy, it is because i am not the expert on the subject as i claim to be in other areas. (disturbance) thank you for your kind approval. i am therefore asked by mrs junker to say on her behalf: the audiovisual sector is a growth market and a huge economic factor. the speech by mr harbour made it clear that it is not just a question of the shape of this market but also of who exercises influence in what areas of this market. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the audiovisual sector. and the audiovisual sector is an employment sector, because 950000 people work in this sector. this sector is the one that will regulate access to information for the masses of people in the future. the average person, karin junker told me, watches 206 minutes of television a day and listens to 3.5 hours of radio. i'm not in the average group. (applause from the centre) the objective we have to pursue, and which has been described here several times by colleagues, is that of a uniform european api, or an application programming interface, as it is so well known. just as we have a single mobile telephone system, the so-called gsm, we also need an api and not 15 different ones in the european union. if we want to have a competitive market, we need this unified system. the difference between us and mr harbour is therefore easily explained, because what mr harbour has said is exactly the position of those who insist that isolation, even if it is insular in nature, is precisely what prevents the creation of this api. mhp is the only open and interoperable standard that meets the requirements of this system. the european commission should take the initiative and introduce this standard quickly, as the commissioner has made clear in his reply to mr rocard's five questions. i agree with mr posselt. the commission has already taken the initiative in the matter of the common agricultural policy. the fact that television is the number one source of information is not only a special observation for viewers of election broadcasts on election nights in the federal republic of germany, but it is also the fact that for all european citizens access to television, access to the democratic, pluralistic information system, is a democratic right, a fundamental right to be guaranteed in the plurality of democracy. access must be guaranteed, whatever form television is offered in the future. but if the future of television is digital, then, in the case of digital television, access to this system is also an essential question of guaranteeing democracy, pluralism and the informational self-determination of citizens. it is only in this way that we can ensure in future that the providers on the market can offer a complete range of products to all consumers and that consumers, the citizens, can make use of the products offered as freely as possible. we, the social democrats in this house, would like to remind commissioner liikanen that he promised to introduce a uniform standard for 2004. if the media sector cannot agree on a uniform approach, we want to go a step further. this is what mr posselt and mrs echerer have described. the commissioner, the social democrats in this house, therefore call on you to act as quickly as possible so that we can move forward as quickly as possible, but also as pluralistically and democratically and as unitedly as possible, mr harbour, on one of the essential questions for the future of the european information society. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. i know that this does not change the outcome, but a lot of colleagues came to the chamber after we had voted. i would say that we should return to the fixed, reliable voting hours on thursday afternoon, especially since the bell was not ringing in many places. i therefore urge that the programme be reorganized so that members can be prepared to vote and not vote.
- mr president, i have to go. i would like to go further than mr posselt. i want to complain about the fact that we are voting now. the vote on the agenda is scheduled for 4.30 p.m. and i can tell you that the bells are not ringing in the offices upstairs. i don't know where your office is, if you can hear the doorbell. we have set ourselves for 4.30 p.m. and it is wrong to vote now, since not all the colleagues who are still in the chamber are in the chamber.
- mr president, you have in principle anticipated the indication. the commission has not yet taken a decision on this. we need to talk about the agenda for thursday afternoon. i do not want to contradict my honourable friend mr whitehead when he said at the beginning of this debate that he could only speak and had to leave immediately because his plane was flying. i think it is absolutely impossible for a parliament to base its work on the flights that individual members intend to take. (applause from the centre) i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. the other groups should do the same, so that thursday afternoon can be organised as it has been so far. otherwise, we can spare ourselves. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. what has been decided? further mini-plenary sessions have been called for the next partsession in brussels. that means that there are some people who will take every opportunity to lead the way against strasbourg. i think that the most important thing is that we have been told that we cannot discuss urgency on thursday because we have already discussed it at the september partsession. yes, do you really believe that the questions of world history, the questions of urgency, are made dependent on whether we have the honour to speak out on current issues or not? i would have thought it extremely important to use this time this afternoon to deal with other important matters of urgency which are usually thrown under the table because we never have time for them. today we would have had time for those who have a desire to perceive what we must have. parliamentarians should be able to speak occasionally, that is to say, on important subjects. we could have used that today. so i am appealing to really give urgency issues the space that is important to make sure that human rights issues are not sacrificed just because some people want to go to the polls. you can do that for hours. but those who want to speak out because they think it is the right thing to do must have the chance, and that is certainly on thursday. thursday does not end at 4 p.m. for some airplanes, but it must go by 6:30 p.m. please! (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. i would like to repeat what mr harbour said: firstly, mr harbour, you are one of those who always attach great importance to the treaty, and if you read the treaty you will see that we hold 12 regular plenary sessions a year, and if there is still a need we can hold additional plenary sessions in brussels. if we were to cut those six days in the fall, we'd have recess, we'd have precinct weeks and all that, and we could use the time here really efficiently instead! secondly, urgent matters should be on the agenda this afternoon, such as the coup d'état in côte d'ivoire. today it was announced that he will be treated on october 9. that means that the conference of presidents has decided to deal with this urgent matter on 9 october, that is, in 14 days' time, instead of this afternoon, when it would have been possible without further ado. thirdly, there has been no question time this week, neither the question time to the council nor the question time to the commission. as i said earlier, this is a basic right of parliament, and the fact that there was no question time was also a breach of the rules of procedure. mr harbour, i am very proud of question time, because it is an achievement of the long tradition of british parliamentarism!
- mr president, i have to go. i'll come back to our subject. i think that the commission should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. (cheers and applause) so the internal discussions in the european people's party seem to be so lively that it is a pleasure to listen to them. perhaps you could invite us to join your group so that we can share a little of your joy. (applause from the centre) but we have one lesson to learn from this debate, and i am saying this specifically for the socialist group. the fact that the corbett reform has brought us forward is something we can see every afternoon at the voting time. we've bought ourselves some time. the fact that the time gained there is not used to do parliamentary work is the wrong consequence. (applause from the centre) i therefore think - and we shall do so as the socialist group - that both you, mr vice-president, in the bureau of this house and the groups in the conference of presidents should put the question of the composition of the agenda back on the agenda, because the way things are going here today cannot continue in the future. (applause from the centre)
president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is with deep emotion that i take the floor in this chamber today. at the beginning of my mandate, i made a commitment to you that enlargement would be the top priority of my commission, that my commission would be the commission of enlargement, because enlarging the union means consolidating an area of peace, security and democracy at continental level. today, three years later, i stand before you again to say that that commitment has been kept: the commission has done its job; the commission has kept its promise. after a thorough examination of the progress made by the candidates, i can announce the names of the countries for which we recommend that the council conclude the negotiations by 2002. let me read the highlight of the recommendations we adopted today: cyprus, the czech republic, estonia, hungary, latvia, lithuania, malta, poland, the slovak republic and slovenia fulfil the political criteria. taking into account the progress made by these countries, their track record in implementing the commitments made, and taking into account the ongoing preparatory work, the commission considers that these countries will have fulfilled the economic and acquis criteria and will be ready for accession by the beginning of 2004. the commission therefore recommends that the accession negotiations with these countries be concluded by the end of the year, with the aim of signing the accession treaty in spring 2003. in view of the progress made in the last year by bulgaria and romania, the commission takes note of the date - 2007 - indicated by these countries for their accession. the commission will do everything necessary to ensure that this objective is actually achieved. turkey has made great progress towards the copenhagen criteria through constitutional reform and a number of legislative packages. however, additional effort is needed. the commission therefore recommends that the european union increase resources and support for turkey's pre-accession preparations. to this end, we will propose a revised accession partnership and strengthen the evaluation of legislation. turkey is encouraged to continue on the path of reforms to advance its candidacy process. ladies and gentlemen, just 13 years ago berlin was still divided by the wall of shame. the wall fell, germany was reunited. thanks to the freedom we have regained, we have found the historical unity of all the peoples of europe. our common destiny is once again to build the future together, a future based on the shared fundamental values of peace, democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights and the protection of minorities. in 1993, the copenhagen european council offered the countries of central and eastern europe the prospect of joining the union. since then, these countries have come a long way, peacefully moving from dictatorship to a stable and participatory democracy. this is an extraordinary budget: in the course of a decade, dozens of national, regional and local elections have been held in a transparent and democratic manner; thousands of laws and regulations were passed to give birth to new democracies and to transpose the community acquis into national legislation; training of tens of thousands of officials and judges is under way to enable them to apply the new legislation; hundreds of thousands of elected officials, experts and trade union leaders have become familiar with our policies through the training and cooperation projects we have funded; all 12 countries meet the political criteria set out in copenhagen and democratic institutions have been strengthened everywhere; finally, the economies of the ten countries as a whole are progressively improving their performance: growth rates are higher than ours; inflation and the deficit are managed and controlled; foreign direct investment is flowing in at high rates: this shows that the markets are confident. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report we have adopted today also highlights the shortcomings that still remain in certain areas, for certain countries. these gaps must be filled before accession and the commission will, together with the authorities of these countries, ensure that the difficulties are resolved in good time. we are particularly concerned about the level of administrative capacity and the functioning of the judicial system, which are hampered by a lack of financial resources and, even more importantly, of human resources. we have tried to respond to these problems by using a support programme with a budget of eur 250 million. this program is beginning to bear fruit. we also noted the insufficient preparation for the implementation of the acquis in some key areas: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas is based on the principle of the common organization of the market in bananas. two very serious problems must be added: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of corruption, which, with a few exceptions, affects many countries, and the shameful phenomenon of human trafficking. i do not mean by that that nothing has been done in these fields. in fact, much has already been done and for some countries the work is almost complete. our report, however, insists on the scrupulous monitoring that the commission has undertaken to carry out from now onwards. in this respect, we will publish a final evaluation document six months before the date of accession. to cope with the complex steps that accompany enlargement, the commission will take all the necessary measures to reorganise its services: on the one hand, we will strengthen our monitoring and support work after the accession of the new member states and, on the other hand, we will have to support the accession process of the countries that will follow those included in the recommendation adopted today. mr president, our aim remains the signing of the accession treaty in the spring of 2003. we are therefore entering the final stages of the process. the commission hopes that the european council in brussels on 24 and 25 october will take the necessary decisions on the following outstanding issues: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. that will allow these chapters to be negotiated and closed before copenhagen. the commission will put forward a strengthened preaccession strategy for bulgaria and romania in time for the copenhagen council to adopt it. for turkey, which does not yet meet the accession criteria, the commission will propose a strategy with additional financial resources at the beginning of next year. the treaty of nice remains for us an essential step which cannot be ignored. i therefore express my confidence in the irish electorate, which will be called upon to speak again in a few days' time. i hope that the historic goal of unifying our continent will not be called into question by this vote. i would like to mention, finally, the cyprus question. we hope for concrete progress towards the reunification of the island, although the conclusions of the helsinki european council do not make it a precondition for accession. the commission hopes that cyprus can join the union as a reunified state and considers this the best solution for all. the commission, in recommending that the council conclude the negotiations with cyprus swiftly, again calls on the parties concerned to promote the reunification of the island and invites all to join the efforts currently being made by the un secretary-general to reach a solution within the year. the seville european council has already stated that the union would 'consider the terms of such a comprehensive solution in the accession treaty, in accordance with the principles underlying the european union'. ladies and gentlemen, all too often i hear about the risks and costs of enlargement. i believe that we can and must speak about this in a very clear and unambiguous way, because the costs have been analysed in all their details and are compatible with the resources available. but we must also and above all communicate to the public the benefits of enlargement, namely stability in europe, the unification of a continent artificially divided by history, the creation of the largest single market in the world. with enlargement we will be linking up with economies that have a lower income level than the current member states, but that also have a higher growth potential. this was precisely the situation in 1985, when spain and portugal concluded their accession negotiations. no one can now doubt the farsightedness and correctness of that decision, which was also very controversial at the time. enlargement is the new frontier of the european project. it will boost trade, investment, education and research, and economic growth. as for the budgetary burden, we know that it is sustainable until 2006 because it is included in berlin's financial perspective. i do not want to hide the fact that the accession of the ten countries will involve, within the limits i have described, a considerable cost, which will, however, be largely compensated in the future by the benefits which will result from the consolidation process of enlargement. however, enlargement has not only economic value: its importance is above all ethical and political. enlargement is the completion of the european construction: the process that has given us half a century of peace and prosperity must be extended to the whole continent. let's think for a moment about the recent history of the balkans: thousands of people have died, entire populations have been displaced, cities have been completely destroyed. enlargement is our political masterpiece because it prevents all this. in this more complete and correct view, the cost of enlargement is very small compared with the cost of non-enlargement. a realistic and positive information campaign must therefore be carried out in the coming months: we must speak to the minds and hearts of our citizens. enlargement is achieved through strong determination, political courage and a far-sighted view of history. it also requires us to be consistent, because accession will not only profoundly change the new countries but will also force us to change ourselves. that is the job of the convention. the institutional reforms that will result from it will have to be as bold and far-sighted as our work has been. it must be understood that without a deep and intelligent reform of the institutions, the success of enlargement risks not being sustainable. the new europe needs a stable and clear institutional and geographical framework, which is understandable to all our citizens. in other words, the time is ripe for a european constitution: a constitution guaranteeing the rights of all citizens and the role of the member states; a constitution that preserves cultural and linguistic diversity but strengthens solidarity; a constitution that will bring to completion the construction of a democratic union, a true union of peoples and states. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to conclude by looking beyond this enlargement, beyond its historical and geographical boundaries. we are inviting new countries to the union because we want to ensure stability and peace throughout the continent. this process must, however, be carried out without creating new barriers at the very moment when we are trying to break them down. this principle must inspire our new neighbourhood relations in the enlarged union: i am referring to russia, ukraine, belarus and moldova. these will be the new neighbouring countries of a union which will one day also have to include the balkan area. however, this attention to our new neighbours on the continent must not prevent us from developing greater sensitivity to the countries bordering the mediterranean, which look to us with ever-increasing expectations, expectations to which our response has so far not been adequate. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the process of european integration, which began half a century ago, has earned us the admiration and respect of the whole world. we are the only ones, albeit on a continental scale, who are putting in place a serious and practical model for managing globalisation. it is a democratic globalisation that is mindful of the human dimension, a globalisation in which all citizens have an equal role. as a positive example for the world, enlargement looks very far: it unites the entire continent for the first time and makes us protagonists of history once again. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. today's commission recommendation to conclude negotiations with the 10 candidate countries this year is perhaps the most important step so far towards the completion of the biggest project the european union is currently working on. our recommendation today has only one justification - the ten countries deserve it! the ten countries have managed to meet the incredibly difficult and demanding conditions for accession to the european union on their own. i would like to stress that the commission has not seen it as its task to provide an ex post facto justification for a desired political scenario of accession. we have seen it as our task to provide you, the members of the european parliament, the council and the member states with neutral and objective information on which countries are ready, are ready for accession and under what conditions. the progress reports have not been drawn up with political intentions in mind. the commission services had one directive. the instructions were to say nothing, to leave nothing out, to make nothing up, and to say clearly and distinctly where there were still problems. we also mention the problems by name in our reports. the important point here is that we have not identified a single problem that could not be solved by the end of 2003. do not be fooled by the sometimes very critical tone. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause from the centre) the commission has developed a method which allows us to determine as precisely as possible where we are and what needs to be done. the commission has also made proposals concerning the continuing monitoring of the commitments entered into and also a safeguard clause in the accession treaty. let me explain a little bit. first of all, i must say that our recommendation does of course contain a certain prognostic element. the new member states are not obliged to meet the conditions for membership today, but at the time of accession, that is, we must now assess whether or not what remains to be done will be done in the period up to accession. this assessment is not based on any feeling or whim, but on a sound knowledge of the pace and quality of the preparation process in these countries. we will continue to use all the proven monitoring instruments after the conclusion of the negotiations and after the conclusion of the treaty to ensure that all the commitments entered into are also fulfilled, and we propose to include in the treaty for the first two years after accession a clause which has not been in any enlargement treaty before, which is completely new, namely a clause ensuring that swift and targeted action can be taken if it should become clear in the first two years after accession that the internal market is disrupted somewhere, that policies are not working in any place concerning the internal market, and the word 'internal market' is to be understood in the broadest sense of the word; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i do not think that this clause is necessary because the candidate countries are a risk - they are not - but i think it is important because we are dealing with an enlargement of a kind we have never known before and because we cannot - at any rate, if we are honest - know exactly what adjustment difficulties may arise in the first two years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think that is also necessary in the context of the public debate in our member states. before we are ready to welcome the members of parliament from ten other countries to this house, a few important things are still needed. first of all, the treaty of nice must be ratified, and i would like to take this opportunity to appeal to the voters in ireland to take into account in their decision that the european future of nations in europe is at stake, that the european future of nations is at stake, nations which were not kept apart from european unification of their own free will, but were forced to live separately from us behind the iron curtain and who now want to belong once and for all to the family of democratic nations in europe. (applause from the centre) the second thing that is needed is that the member states agree in a few days' time at the european council in brussels to define the common negotiating positions that are still open. the member states must therefore also be urged to show the necessary willingness to compromise and flexibility. if the timetable is to be respected, we need agreement in brussels on the financial package and on institutional matters. thirdly, it is necessary that the candidate countries continue their work, continue their efforts, and they will certainly be encouraged in this by what the commission has decided today and what is being discussed here this afternoon. finally, a word on bulgaria and romania. i am pleased with the progress made by these two countries. it is not our decision that bulgaria and romania will not be in the first round of enlargement. it's her own decision. they said they wanted to be there in 2007, and all the commitments they made in the negotiations relate to 2007 and not 2004. the commission solemnly promises that it will do everything in its power to help these two countries to achieve this objective. the present enlargement process will not be completed until bulgaria and romania are represented in this parliament by members! (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i disagree with those who say that the helsinki strategy was a mistake - quite the contrary! we can see that since the helsinki strategy came into force - about 18 months ago - turkey has made more progress in these 18 months in terms of human rights, democracy and the rule of law than in the five decades before. that should be recognized, and we recognize that. (applause from the centre) however, it was not expected that turkey would meet all the political conditions for the opening of accession negotiations during these 18 months. it is not at all a criticism of turkey that i find that it does not yet meet all the conditions. on the contrary, i find it astonishing how much it has achieved in a short time, and that is why turkey must be encouraged to continue along this path, and the commission will make appropriate proposals to ensure that turkey can continue along this path and that the door remains open to turkey. but i would advise against being distracted from the real task of transforming this country so that it is eligible for membership of the european union. i would advise against being distracted by this and getting involved in fruitless data discussion that can lead to no productive outcome. the results of today's vote are being received with the greatest attention, with great excitement and with great hopes in many countries of europe. we now have the task of ensuring that the citizens of europe not only understand this project, but also welcome it, really want it, and it should not surprise anyone that there is still a great deal of scepticism in a number of member states. i think that where there is still a lot of scepticism, we are often faced with a serious lack of information. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if this does not happen, we may be in for a very, very unpleasant surprise, at least in a whole series of countries, namely that at the moment when enlargement becomes the central domestic issue, and it will be - at the latest after the treaty is signed - people will say: why didn't we know this? why did you do this without us? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the citizens are involved. (applause from the centre)
president of the council. - mr president, the train journey that began in helsinki has now reached its third-last station. it is good and it is good that the commission's progress report has been able to be so expedited that it has come a month earlier than last year, and it is good that we now have a complete basis for deciding which countries are ready to conclude the enlargement negotiations. i would like to begin by thanking the president of the commission and commissioner verheugen for the commitment and energy they have shown from the outset in this historic task. i have followed their work here in parliament since they took office. it has been a pleasure to see and a pleasure to feel their commitment, which is also burning through here in the chamber today. we have had an objective review of the level of preparation of the candidate countries. the commission has assessed that 10 countries are ready to conclude the negotiations. they fulfil the copenhagen criteria and are assessed to meet the economic criterion and the criterion of being able to implement the eu acquis prior to the 2004 accession. in some areas, further efforts are needed in terms of administrative capacity and the commission proposes to continue monitoring the preparations of the candidate countries for membership. the recommendation to conclude the negotiations with 10 countries will be discussed at the european council in brussels in 14 days' time, and the final decision will be discussed at the european council in copenhagen in two months' time. bulgaria and romania have made good progress since the last reports, but are not yet at the stage where negotiations can be concluded. as you know, it was decided in seville that special measures should be taken for the two countries, and that decision should also be taken in copenhagen. the commission notes that turkey has made significant progress towards meeting the copenhagen criteria. this is a welcome development which must be maintained. it also noted that there was still a long way to go and therefore encouraged turkey to pursue further reforms and implement the reforms adopted in order to further strengthen the membership perspective. the seville conclusions make copenhagen the decisive moment for the development of eu-turkey relations. we must not, in the run-up to the european council in brussels, prejudge the decisions to be taken in copenhagen. as regards cyprus, the commission fully supports the efforts of the united nations. the commission calls on all parties involved, in particular turkey, to work actively to find a solution before the conclusion of the accession negotiations with cyprus. the basis for a position on the question of cyprus' accession remains the conclusions of the helsinki european council. finally, i would like to agree with what the president of the commission and commissioner verheugen have said about the irish vote, and i would like to agree with the president of the commission's words about the risks and costs of not enlarging, because there are far greater risks and costs of not enlarging. that's why the track was laid in helsinki. that is why the train is now moving towards peace, democracy and prosperity throughout our continent. the next station is brussels, the last is copenhagen, and the danish train drivers are ready, the whistle has been blown today.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. this is an important debate, since it is about tackling the european union's greatest challenge, the accession of ten countries in a first round. i am all the more sorry that the subject of our debate today has been reported in the european press in recent days, and i ask you, mr president of the commission, to ensure that in future parliament is informed first and the european public second. i think that is the right order if such a debate is to have any meaning! (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them up in the near future. i would like to thank all of you very much for your hard work. (applause from the centre) we are in general agreement with the conclusions, including the designation of the 10 countries which the commission proposes for inclusion, but we still have a huge effort to make. the applicant countries have made a tremendous effort - and this has been expressed, and we express our deepest respect for it - after 50 years of communism, communist mismanagement, communist tyranny and dictatorship, and this deserves our deepest recognition and our deepest respect. but there is still a lot of work to be done, both by the candidate countries and by the european union itself. i think it is important now that we do not disappoint the confidence of the applicant countries, and those who today set new conditions for the accession of the countries of central europe, malta and cyprus to the european union, for example by demanding that the european agricultural policy first be reformed, those who demand this are sinning against the applicant countries, because that undermines the confidence of the applicant countries in the european union and its commitments! we must therefore now maintain the confidence of the applicant countries and must not impose any new conditions. poland is without question the most important candidate country because its population - almost 39 million - is larger than that of the other nine candidate countries. we must also remember today that this great change in europe would not have been possible without poland, without solidarnos - and i say this here too so that we do not forget it - without the great spiritual strength of poland in the chair of peter, john paul ii, who called out to the poles: do not be afraid! this was the basis for the intellectual, political change in europe! (applause from the right) we must never forget that! this was also the basis for the unification of germany 12 years ago. without poland, this would not have been possible. we therefore hope that poland will be able to cope with the difficult problems it still faces in the accession negotiations in the coming weeks and months, and we support the commission's proposals on direct payments. there are some open questions which we would like to have answered by the czech government. what is the czech government's position on the question of whether, for example, there is still a law in the czech republic which does not treat people equally in the european union? is there discrimination there? it would be helpful if the czech government could provide a response to this. we hope that bulgaria and romania, which are not part of this enlargement round, will make further progress so that we can conclude negotiations with these two countries in the foreseeable future. we believe that the commission's approach is correct in not giving turkey a date for the opening of negotiations. i would like to say on behalf of our group that we are not in agreement on the question of turkey's membership of the european union. we must say so, as we have done in other groups. we are united in the view that turkey is a very important and crucial strategic partner for us and that we must always keep it in a close and good partnership with us. there is the kaliningrad problem, and i strongly recommend that in dealing with this difficult problem we put security first and also the sovereignty of lithuania, which we must not question. on this basis, we must find flexible arrangements with russia. i also warn against a new iron curtain between, say, poland and ukraine; the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the president of the commission has referred to the mediterranean. i was in morocco just now and there is great concern that we europeans are forgetting the mediterranean because of enlargement. the mediterranean is our neighbour, as are the applicant countries in the heart of europe, and i recommend that we attach the same importance to this cooperation as to our relations with eastern europe. (applause from the centre) if 20 years ago someone had asked, we offer you poland and other countries to join the european union - what are you willing to pay for it? we would have been prepared to pay any financial price for this, and so let us be glad today that the accession of poland and other countries to our community of values of the european union, democracy, the rule of law and the social market economy is possible, and let us also welcome our colleagues when they are elected, hopefully at the next european elections in 2004! this is a great day for europe, because we will have a common, hopefully good future for our continent! (applause from the centre)
chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to thank the commission in particular for the excellent preparations it has made over the past few months and for presenting, in the light of all that we have been able to analyse so far, a proposal which is viable, so viable that in december the decisions to invite ten countries to join the european union can be taken. as chairman of the committee responsible, i can tell you that we are making preparations to speed up the parliamentary procedure so that there is no delay by the european parliament, so that the deadline for the signature of the treaties can be met. i am convinced that the european parliament will sign off on a positive outcome overall. this is a great moment, but with this great moment the work is not yet finished, because there are still difficult negotiations until december. it must be clear that we cannot hold the applicant countries hostage to the problems we have in one or another member state of the european union. we must be clear that reforms are needed in areas such as agricultural policy, but these reforms must not be designed to give an alibi for delay. the internal workings of the european union must be designed in such a way that no new reasons for delays are invented. that is why we are also calling on the member governments to reach agreement as soon as possible on certain areas - agricultural policy and financing - on which they are not yet in agreement, so that we do not have to delay the enlargement of the european union. this includes, for example, trying to resolve the cyprus issue in a way that does not lead to new tensions and at the same time to delays. i think we're almost at the square of the circle, but that seems solvable to me, too. it must be clear that there is no force outside the european union among the candidate countries which has the right to influence the enlargement agenda, whatever country it is. we must also be clear about this, in whatever direction it may be directed, in many cases. i also think that there is still a lot to be done in the candidate countries, and i thank the commission for the great importance it attaches to implementation through the administration and the judiciary. the candidate countries have a long way to go before accession becomes effective in 2004; it is not enough to transpose eu law into national law! there must also be the ability to put it into practice. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we cannot finish our efforts in december, otherwise we will be in a very difficult situation. this also means that it must be clear that we will then have a legal order, including in relation to the czech republic, in which there can be no discrimination. an eu citizen cannot be discriminated against in the future, for whatever reason. the european union is not here to undo the past, but to make a new start, to break the cycle of violence in europe, and that means that everyone is prepared to make that new start accordingly. i hope that, according to the relevant reports drawn up on behalf of the european parliament, this will be taken into account by all sides and that the opportunity will be taken to link this with the appropriate signs, gestures and actions so that this can work. let me say one more thing, which should be the longest part of my speech. we ourselves have to do our homework, we ourselves are not ready for expansion. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's powers in the field of justice and home affairs. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. there are issues related to the current situation in iraq that are uncontroversial, that we all share and where we have a broad consensus. the first is that iraq must comply fully and without reservations with all the un security council resolutions. i am very grateful to you, commissioner, for saying that iraq should not be the only country to do this; but today we're talking about iraq. secondly, we all agree that the weapons inspectors must return to iraq and be allowed to search everything there without hindrance in order to do their job. in particular, they must seek out weapons of mass destruction and launchers and then destroy them. i am very grateful to you, commissioner, for adding another point to this consensus, and i am particularly pleased that you have done so, namely that the response to this situation, to this problem of iraq, should be multilateral and within the framework of the united nations. this is the chance we have to actually solve this problem once and for all. there are other issues where we do not have this consensus. the question is whether the weapons inspectors who are now on a mission to iraq should wait for the security council to adopt a new resolution. i think a definition of their role by the un secretary-general would suffice. if it is true that there is a great danger from iraq, then it is logical that these inspectors should go to iraq as soon as possible. the un secretary-general must also examine the question of the embargo. while the inspectors are looking for weapons in iraq, the conditions must be set once again, how this embargo can be completely lifted, how this embargo can be ended. i think that is self-evident, but i would like to emphasize it again and repeat it here. while the inspectors are searching for weapons in iraq, these bombings, which are not based on any un resolution, cannot continue, the bombings by the united states and the united kingdom. i would like to ask you to suspend them - i say this with caution - until we have a report from the inspectors. finally, the un should prepare a timetable for the destruction of arms and inspections and a timetable for the embargo and the reintegration of iraq into the world community. this would be an important step that the un could take. i would like to say this about the un: if we choose the un, we should not operate an à la carte uno, that is to say, we follow the un resolutions that suit us, we can leave out the others because they do not suit us! in this case we must be very clear, and i am in favour of respecting and implementing all un resolutions accordingly. (applause from the centre)
chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am pleased to bring the question here and to make a few remarks for our rapporteur - if he is not here - on the conclusion of an association agreement with algeria. the foreign affairs committee has not been easy on this matter. we have therefore postponed our decision until we have had a chance to speak to the algerian foreign minister, whom we have questioned on a wide range of subjects, including in particular the respect of important points of this agreement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this is also an important question for the council and the commission. how much confidence is there in the observance of these regulations? the european parliament's participation in accordance with article 2 of the agreement should ensure that in future, such clauses are not only a paper part of such agreements but also part of an operational policy so that a corresponding development in such countries also takes place. i believe it is in our common interest that we have a peaceful, democratic and rule-of-law development in the whole mediterranean region and thus also in algeria. it is therefore right that these relations be developed to enforce such positions. it is necessary that the council and the commission use all the instruments available to them to achieve the abolition of the death penalty, that there be real cooperation in the fight against terrorism, that progress be made in decentralised decision-making structures which take account of the different circumstances of the country, and that progress be made, particularly in the field of economic and social development, which can deprive terrorist developments of a fertile ground. i believe that these are important tasks which should be tackled on the basis of this agreement, so that it can really become a useful institution. in this context, we are naturally also interested in knowing how the free movement of persons can be developed in the light of the european union's policy in this area, and how the questions of asylum policy, etc., can be regulated. we are particularly interested, of course, in the fact that interparliamentary relations are not even mentioned in these new agreements. i believe that if we want to achieve democratic development in a country, it is extremely important that parliamentary developments be given the support they need, so that a process of mutual learning can be set in motion on the basis of dialogue between parliaments and the democratic development of a country can be strengthened. i would be glad if the council and the commission could give an answer to that. i am particularly interested in how the present treaty can be used to promote this development, regardless of what is in the treaty. i would therefore ask that we approve this agreement. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. i ask for your support.
commission. - madam president, i would first of all like to say, at the start of this debate, my sincere thanks to your assembly, and in particular to your rapporteur, mr berend, and to mr walter, and to presidents caveri and wynn for the very good cooperation of our two institutions and the speed with which you have been so kind as to examine this proposal for a regulation. we must now move as quickly as possible and also in terms of budgetary mechanisms so that the first aid can be provided before winter. i wish i could be a first-aid worker in november. given the progress of the discussions in the council this afternoon, i think it can be said that an agreement on this proposal for a regulation is now within reach, and i am happy to say that this is possible thanks to a very broad agreement between parliament and the commission, of which mr berend was one of the architects. in this final phase of the discussions, we have three points to decide. the first is to define precisely which disasters can be compensated for. the concern of your assembly is not to confine the system to a too rigid definition. the council, for its part, wanted priority to be given to natural disasters. the commission, as i said the other day before the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, has studied very carefully the recent history of disasters in europe. eighty percent of these disasters that have happened in recent years have been natural disasters, storms, earthquakes, or floods. i do not therefore think that there is any inconsistency in accepting the priority requested by the council, since the possibility for the commission to intervene in other scenarios - ecological, environmental or technological disasters - would be preserved, in some very limited cases. the second point is the threshold or thresholds for triggering the intervention of the fund. like the commission, your assembly is particularly concerned that we should have two criteria, one or the other, rather than just one, in order to assess fairly the impact of a disaster on the economy of a state, whether that state is a large state, a large country like germany, or a smaller state. and we know, unfortunately, that smaller states in our union are prone to real and serious natural disasters. even if the council is keen to substantially reassess the criterion expressed in absolute terms - we proposed eur 1 billion in damages, the council is stopping at eur 3 billion - the principle of having two alternative criteria is not called into question. finally, the third point: the maintenance of a qualitative criterion allowing exceptional intervention in a single region affected by a disaster. this is a top priority for the commission, and this is the margin of appreciation we have been asking for throughout this discussion. the higher the quantitative thresholds, and i have just said that they have been raised in the council's proposal, the more discretion is needed, because the worst thing would of course be, ladies and gentlemen, for this fund to be so constrained, rigidised by very limited qualitative criteria and too high quantitative ones, that at the end of the road it would never be used. i have said, and i repeat it to you in this house, that in the last 14 years we have, thank god, only identified seven major disasters with damage of more than one billion euros. that is why i proposed in the commission's first version that the quantitative threshold of eur 1 billion be retained. so the worst thing would be that we are so rigid, locked into criteria of any kind, that this fund, once created, is never actually used even though populations are hit by disasters. the council takes a very cautious approach to this qualitative criterion. i am saying that neither the commission nor, i believe, parliament wants the operation of the regulation to be hijacked by systematic recourse to this qualitative criterion. the commission is and will be extremely rigorous in its use of this particular solution. what we want, and i say this very simply, is to ensure that an exceptionally serious disaster in one region can be eligible for the fund. there are indeed regions in europe which are more exposed than others: the islands, the isolated or remote regions, or regions which we must protect, as the treaty asks us to do through a specific article - mrs sudre, who is here, knows this well - article 299 on the outermost regions. i therefore think that we must have the means, and that is precisely the means that the commission has given, to give them priority aid below the quantitative criteria. in conclusion, madam president, with your help and on this basis with the help of your rapporteurs, i now hope that agreement can be reached very quickly on this proposal for a regulation and on the amendment to the interinstitutional agreement. because behind the problems, the regulations, the thresholds, the standards, there are, let's not forget, i met them and i was moved, people who are waiting after being wounded, and we know that beyond the wounds there are also dead people. these populations now expect europe to help them, alongside the national and regional authorities, to return to the most normal conditions for their daily lives in an emergency.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the floods that struck central europe in august of this year were of horrifying proportions. numerous lives were lost, and there was immense material damage. whole areas of the countryside and cities were devastated, agricultural lands and cultural monuments were badly damaged. the scale of the destruction has caused great concern throughout europe, and the desire to help the affected countries to cope with the many problems at eu level has quickly become concrete. the commissioner, the local population remembers with gratitude that you and commission president prodi were there a few days after the disaster and that you gave them an idea of the extent of the damage. but not just grateful, but hopeful. they hoped that the eu would intervene in such a case. however, there is still a lack of appropriate instruments at community level, as we know that an existing eu support fund was not renewed in 1998. as rapporteur, i see the establishment of this new solidarity instrument as an important complement to the community funds. it provides the eu with a non-bureaucratic disaster response tool in the form of a flexibility instrument, which can provide rapid assistance on the ground. the aim of the fund is to enable the people, regions and countries concerned to return to normal living conditions as quickly as possible, with immediate financial support. it is therefore limited to the most pressing needs. the long-term reconstruction of infrastructure and the economy remains a matter for other instruments, and this eu emergency aid is not intended to replace but to complement the efforts of the countries concerned. the 1 billion euro which is supposed to be in the fund is fictitious, i.e. not set aside in a fixed budget line, but will only be activated in the event of a disaster. the commissioner rightly asked: what is the disaster that this fund can help with? the definition of major disaster on the basis of a threshold of eur 1 billion or a ratio of 0.5% to gdp actually ensures that the use of the fund is limited to exceptionally severe cases of damage. that is why we in the committee have agreed by a majority on a definition which says: major disasters. we have deliberately avoided natural disasters, environmental disasters, technological disasters. what do you want to say to the people affected when a disaster like the one that happened in new york on 11 september occurs here in the european union, on a scale where many of those affected will also suffer the same fate? we cannot say: 'the eu cannot help here, we are sorry, this is not a natural disaster!' we should stick to the concept of major disasters here, and the three-month deadline for requesting funds proposed in the report is in fact in keeping with the principle of urgency and immediate rapid relief which characterizes the fund. as regards the availability of the funds allocated, i am speaking as rapporteur of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism for the period of two years to ensure the reconstruction of destroyed infrastructure and equipment in the fields of energy, water, waste water, telecommunications, transport, health and education at short notice. the appropriations will also be used to provide emergency services and to provide immediate protection facilities and measures for the immediate protection of cultural heritage and for the clean-up of natural areas, buildings and towns affected by disasters, including the short-term fixing of dams. the measure to keep 25% of the flexibility instrument, which is endowed with up to 1 billion, in reserve until october of each year, in order to take account of possible late disasters in the calendar year, is supported by the committee responsible. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think we should move as quickly as possible. the victims are also waiting for help from the european union. (applause from the centre)
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have a very important task to carry out here as members of the committee on budgets, and i am glad and grateful that one thing has been made clear so far on this occasion: we all know that on the one hand, this is about getting things done very quickly, because people are actually waiting for you to help them after they have experienced something that we could not have imagined for a long time. on the other hand, we would have to work through three complex areas of work if we were to be able to do something here that is sustainable for the future. we must create a legal basis; it's available today. we have already discussed this today, and we have been in a very good mood. i think we can come to an agreement. we must put this into an interinstitutional agreement. that was the main point of the committee on budgets. we have to make sure that we not only give people the impression that we can help them now, but we also have to make it so solid that it can last, that it fits into the framework, that it is durable, and that others who will be affected later also know that they can rely on certain things. we cannot be the ones to offer them the carrot now and then say later that the solid foundations for this are not there. we have therefore attached importance to three things: the legal basis must be decided as soon as possible. that is why we have worked very constructively with the committee of the regions. i am very grateful to the committee of the regions for having accepted most of our amendments. the interinstitutional agreement has been discussed today. there's one more little problem. a supplementary and amending budget in which the money, the 1 billion we are talking about, must be actually made available as quickly as possible, must come as a proposal from the commission as soon as possible, and we can appeal once again to the member states to put the figures out very quickly so that we can make progress here. we have agreed as budgetary authorities that we want to keep this billion at least as an offer in the future. we will work with everyone else as quickly as possible, but also - and this must be clear - as solidly as possible. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. i think the people of europe can know that there is concrete cooperation here for the benefit of the people. we, as householders, who are supposed to look more or less only at money, are at the point of appreciating the human dimension. we must help as quickly as possible, now and today in germany, austria, the czech republic and in the future also in those regions which have felt in the past that we have not been able to serve them adequately. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already done so. the european solidarity is becoming tangible, ladies and gentlemen! in the present and future, immediate help can be provided in the event of major disasters. as a member from sachen-anhalt, i was grateful to see the commission and parliament acting swiftly and unanimously. i have also experienced that the european idea can hardly be conveyed in a more meaningful way than through aid to the people in my region who are affected. it is perhaps a good omen that we are debating this solidarity today on this historic day when the enlargement of the community has taken on a definite shape, because the solidarity fund and our solidarity already apply to the candidate countries. the concern of my group is to preserve as much as possible the precision of the good proposal for a regulation put forward by commissioner barnier. the solidarity fund is an aid instrument which provides emergency aid and must be clearly distinguished from the tasks of the structural funds. i would like to emphasize two amendments to the commission's text. firstly, as mr berend has said, the broader definition of disaster that we wanted. it will allow us to respond flexibly in future to unforeseeable catastrophic events which would otherwise be difficult to include in the commission's proposal, such as droughts or the aftermath of terrorist attacks. secondly, the extension of the application period to three months. it also allows the accession countries which are not yet well equipped administratively an adequate reaction time and is appropriate to a scenario in which important parts of the administration are destroyed. the european union has a duty to help the people of europe, and i am sure that the european union will do so. the flood disaster has shown that despite all the efforts, there were significant shortcomings in the management of operations, materials, logistics and communications, especially in the cross-border area. this is where the solution must be found. the commission should initially encourage or support joint exercises by fire brigades, technical assistance, civil protection, etc. in the border area. in the medium term, this could lead to a logistically coherent aid network or even a civilian solidarity corps which could be deployed even outside the community in the event of disasters, for example in the event of an earthquake of the magnitude of the one that recently struck turkey. we should work on that vision, and not wait until after the next disaster. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent cooperation.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i think it is another milestone that we are reaching tonight and tomorrow after the vote, when it comes to expressing european solidarity through the european union. we acted immediately after the flood disaster. i would remind you of the resolution adopted by the european parliament by a large majority - over 470 votes in favour - at its september i part-session in strasbourg. we have shown a way of helping quickly and ensuring in a lasting way that european aid can be provided in a timely manner. i would like to thank the commissioner very much for having taken up this parliament's initiative so quickly and for having put forward proposals, and i think it is proper for a parliament to then also deal with these proposals quickly, even though our procedures actually provide for a different procedure and i, as a convinced parliamentarian, am not always in favour of giving up our rights too much. but in this case it makes sense, in this case it's good that we act like this! we have now created budget lines in the supplementary budget which we have just adopted. we are now discussing the legal basis and we want to reach agreement with the council on that legal basis by the end of this month in strasbourg. this means that the formal conditions for the disbursement of funds have been met. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would ask the commission to come up with a supplementary budget quickly. mr barnier, that is not your job, that is the job of your colleague mrs schreyer! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we shouldn't be lying to ourselves. i am glad that mrs schreyer has now come to the point, and i would therefore ask you, mr barnier, to forward this to mrs schreyer, so that she can draw up a supplementary budget as soon as possible, so that money can be put on the line and european solidarity can be shown not only in words but also in deeds. it is time we expressed this in a way that reflects that. i think that we as a parliament have done our best and i hope that in the future, when the time comes, we will be able to provide rapid assistance in the event of disasters such as those we have just experienced in august, in accordance with clear criteria, and that we will not end up with the situation that led to the abolition of the disaster fund, which already existed at that time, without any legal basis. it is not possible for every problem in europe to become a problem of european solidarity. the distinction between solidarity and subsidiarity must be drawn clearly here. if we can do that, we're on the right track! (applause from the centre)
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. i would like to begin by thanking you, mr bösch, for the support you have given in your report, which you have just reiterated. the commission's initiative is both an important part of the overall reform package and has its place in the commission's overall strategy for the protection of financial interests. the aim, as you have stressed, is to improve the fraud-proofing of community policies and legislative proposals. fraud prevention is not new. it was and is an essential concern, and it must be comprehensive, that is to say, it must start at the very beginning, that is to say - as you have also stressed - at the initiative, at the proposal, and it cannot be there only at the implementation stage. fraud prevention is not just the business of a few specialists. this is what led us to say that it cannot be olaf's job alone, but that cooperation between the departments must be initiated at an early stage. the expertise of the directorates-general must be combined with the specific knowledge of olaf, which olaf also has from its practical work. this can be used as a synergy effect to develop fraud prevention in such a way that draft legislation is examined from the point of view of fraud prevention. the aim is to establish a working method which aims to combine this expertise with prevention knowledge without unnecessarily prolonging the legislative process. i agree with you that you have made a great deal of emphasis on this. the simplification of legislation is also an important aspect. this is also a preventive measure, of course, if legislation is not so complicated that it cannot be checked afterwards, but simplification also creates good control possibilities. the fraud proofing mechanism is intended to help make legislation clear and fraud-proof. i would like to comment on what you have mentioned in this context, namely that we should examine new legislation on the one hand and existing legislation on the other. this is of course again a question of the human resources available. we are now embarking on an ongoing legislative process, and this is only the first step, of course. we shall see, once a procedure has been established, to what extent this can be established in the case of amendments to laws, because this is something we are constantly concerned about. olaf is now in the process of establishing the criteria, designating the contact persons and setting up this mechanism. i would also point out that the fraud-proofing of legislation is not the commission's sole responsibility, but that the legislator is also called upon to take this principle into account as a decisive criterion in the legislative process. in conclusion, let me say that even the best prevention policy can only be successful if it is combined with a credible deterrent. that is also what you emphasize in your report, mr bösch. the fraud prevention measures should not in any way limit olaf's decisive action in detecting fraud and irregularities, but rather complement them. the commission is also trying to improve the criminal law system. we have just had the hearing on the european prosecutor, and i should like to take this opportunity to thank you once again for the great support of the european parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. not only does the fight against fraud seem to be becoming a permanent task in the eu, but the commission is also quite imaginative in its approach. with this communication on the prevention of fraud in legislation and contract management - a very high-profile title indeed - the commission is once again showing its potential for imagination. it remains to be seen whether the full text will deliver what it promises. i think it is appropriate to have doubts about that. since the beginning of its mandate, this commission has been glittering with eloquent verbal promises, but no action has followed. despite its slogan of 'zero tolerance for fraud and irregularities', the official fraud figures for 2000 were at an all-time high and 2001 was also well above the average of previous years at eur 1.25 billion. the aim is to ensure that legislation and contracts are drafted in a fraud-proof manner. they should be given a stamp, so to speak: tested and found to be fraud-proof! i wonder if that's the big one. is it not self-evident that the texts - as far as texts are concerned - encourage legal action rather than illegal action in the allocation of the eu's billions? does the commission not employ armies of well-trained and highly paid civil servants, not least to achieve this objective? i therefore think that this communication is, quite frankly, superfluous because it is a matter of course. the only conclusion i can draw is that the clocks in the commission are not running the same. it is obvious that it is necessary to state by official notice that legal action must be taken and not illegal. i think that is very worrying for an institution which is the guardian of the european treaties. the commission should not, on the other hand, finally address the cases of fraud that have been revealed and take action? wouldn't that be the most promising method? why does the commission not take action against a former commissioner before the european court of justice, for example, with the resources it has? that would be more targeted because it would be a deterrent for the future. but no, the commission is changing the financial regulation to make it less transparent. it continues to seek to restrict parliament's powers of control and has abolished the independent financial controller. all these points are mentioned in the report by mr bösch, whom i also fully support. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. everything else can only be a supporting measure. i do not want to take this opportunity to comment on the criticism of the commission's accounting system, although there seems to be some problems with it. but it is sad how the commission still deals with critics. she doesn't seem to have learned anything. mr bösch has raised it, and i want to repeat it. a danish civil servant is stripped of her record. it is pushed aside because it draws attention to grievances. i am referring to the operations at eurostat, which we also mention in the report. in spite of this criticism - and i would almost say in german, sufficient suspicion has been established - the commission continues to cooperate with a company which is extremely dubious, which facilitates contracts and has not done a good job. the commission must act. otherwise, it cannot be avoided that communications such as the present are mere diversionary manoeuvres!
- mr alyssandrakis, this has nothing to do with the rules. we can ask for urgent procedure at any time to discuss certain points, and then those points can be discussed, but that has nothing to do with the rules of procedure! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council.
- the next item is the report (a5-0303/2002) by mr moreira da silva, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the community and amending council directive 96/61/ec (com (2001) 581 - c5-0578/2001 - 2001/0245 (cod)).
- thank you very much, mrs hautala! your example is charming. maybe you'll also tell us the name of the restaurant where you eat lobster!
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. the commissioner has indicated at the outset that climate action in the european union is not yet sufficient. that is why we want to negotiate an additional new instrument in the field of emission legislation. we'll say yes to that, me too. but i also say that if you look at the overall picture of emissions in the european union, you find that some are already doing a pretty good job of reducing greenhouse gases and some are not. i believe that this additional new instrument should not allow us to call into question the efforts which have already been successful. so we should not be putting a straitjacket on structures that have successfully reduced co2 and other greenhouse gases. so two things are particularly important to me. firstly, more flexibility, and secondly, fair conditions. more flexibility: in my region, i know a company that has reduced its greenhouse gas emissions by 27% since 1990. why on earth should this company be involved in the emissions trading system if it says for business reasons that we do not want it? on the other hand, there is one company which is not covered by the directive and which has an interest in it. because they've also reduced co2, they're eager to get in. i am therefore in favour of creating opt-in/opt-out options. the opt-in option contained in the proposal of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection is also entirely satisfactory to me, the opt-out option not because the two are not parallel, but because the opt-out option has a limit of 31.12.2007. i therefore propose that the conditions be kept the same, so that when someone leaves, they are not free to do so, but must meet the same emission reductions as if they were still in the country, but leave out the limitation to 2007. i would therefore like to promote motion no 81. the second area is fair conditions. of course we have to make sure that the companies that are going in and have been making efforts since 1990 are also taken into account in the allocation of emission allowances. secondly, it is not possible to buy emission rights by closing down or relocating and then sell them cheaply, thus putting jobs at risk. these emission rights must be extinguished. if you combine the two, flexibility and fair conditions, you can say with a good heart: yes to climate protection through emissions trading, but with flexible and fair conditions. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i should like to begin by making it clear that i am not speaking today on behalf of the cdu/csu group in the european parliament. the majority in this group has a different view, but i am speaking for the epp group, and the epp group supports the moreira da silva report in its main points as voted on by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. i am in favour of the report and i thank the rapporteur for his commitment. it was not always easy to negotiate and he had to accept compromises which are particularly difficult for his country, and for that we must give him special credit. the compromise was difficult for portugal, but it was helpful and reasonable. climate protection is one of the biggest challenges of the next few decades. we should stop making a distinction between economics and climate change. the terrible flooding in germany and neighbouring countries has made it clear that there is also great economic damage if we do not take action to protect the climate. of course, this flood was not yet clearly an effect of climate change - that is what scholars argue - but they no longer argue that we must do something to prevent such disasters in the future. it is therefore right that the commission should make proposals here, but it is also right, and we all agree in this parliament, that the commission's present proposal has major weaknesses. the debate in the committees has been about how to deal with these weaknesses. there was a group which at first tried to reject the commission's proposal altogether, and when that failed, at least watered it down. another group, which i am a member of, said: "we have to improve it". improve it, but not water it down. that was the motto under which we worked, and i believe that the major weaknesses of the commission's proposal have in fact been largely eliminated by the report of the committee on the environment. the most important thing is the recognition of the base year 1990 and the recognition of prior experience in the enterprises. it's just not understandable in germany, the uk, finland and other countries that have already done something, that you're being punished for getting started early on climate action. so it's important that we have the base year and the recognition of prior performance, because then the companies that have done something can be properly rewarded, and then they have a chance to benefit from greenhouse gas emission allowance trading. there are other improvements - mr lange mentioned this - that if you close a plant and destroy jobs, you cannot be rewarded for doing so as a climate change measure. that is why we have accepted a proposal that this is a measure whereby the emission allowances are included when a production is closed. the epp group has tabled 12 further amendments. we have unanimously decided in the group to make further improvements to the moreira da silva report, but these do not touch on the essence of the compromise. the most important amendment in this area is how to deal with the cement and lime industry. indeed, it is more difficult to avoid co2 emissions in lime and cement production than in other sectors, and this must be taken into account without compromising the overall objective. the majority of the epp group and i personally are against an opt-out for whole nations and above all against an opt-out granted without preconditions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. emissions trading is a market economy instrument for climate protection and, as a believer in the market economy, i am in favour of the moreira da silva report and ask my colleagues to support it. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. i should like to begin by thanking mr moreira da silva for the fact that, with a great deal of painstaking work, he has turned a very bad commission proposal, which should have been rejected in its entirety, into a workable proposal for discussion. i thank the honourable members because, commissioner wallström, what your authority has put forward does not meet the quality standards necessary to promote environmental protection at european level. i have not seen such a bad proposal for a directive in eight and a half years that has been tabled in this house. so you can be grateful that parliament has finally had the opportunity to improve something on your bad proposal. that's for your information. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. fair conditions not only because some member states of the european union have already made substantial contributions and others have not, but also because of the competitive relevance of this emissions trading. here all sorts of colleagues have commented on the us, the bad guys in the us, then that it is actually an energy tax. mrs corbey said that nuclear power should not be given preference. the commission's proposal does not meet its own conditions at all. it is a bureaucratic monster, totally ineffective in environmental policy, and it cannot be attributed to kyoto and justified, because kyoto, mrs wallström, kyoto was signed by the member states. in kyoto, the member states committed themselves. the kyoto protocol contains six greenhouse gases, you have only one. the kyoto protocol commits the member states. they want to commit the companies. the kyoto protocol enables the member states to use all the instruments available. they want to override the responsibility of the member states through the bureaucracy of the commission. the kyoto protocol is in effect from 2008 to 2012. they will start to make emissions trading compulsory as early as 2005. the kyoto protocol has at least three instruments. all three instruments - you use only one - and above all you violate the most important principle on which the international community has agreed, namely that co2 should be saved worldwide where it will be most cost-effective and fastest possible, by proposing, and this is quite clear, an internal european trade without external effects, whose cost per tonne of co2 equivalent is between 20 and 33 euros. you have not included the other two instruments in your directive at all. the kyoto protocol has set a target of a mix where the cost is set at eur 6 per tonne of co2 equivalent, and if you do that as you have proposed, there will be job losses and job transfers in europe. we are not going to achieve a positive result worldwide, and that is why we are in favour not only of fair conditions but also of competition between instruments until the start of the kyoto protocol. now all 15 member states of the european union have committed themselves to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 8% each. the european union has committed itself to a different burden-sharing approach. this burden-sharing provides for germany, for example, to participate very strongly with minus 21%, while portugal, for example, is allowed to increase by 27% on the basis of 1990. this is a very fair and responsible story, and if germany and the united kingdom are the only countries which have achieved success without this bureaucratic monster of emissions trading, as the commission has proposed, then you cannot punish them by saying: those who have done it voluntarily must now be punished in addition for having already achieved success. what kind of motivation is this, mrs wallström, that you impose on the member states and on the companies? i can say this as a german member of parliament: 231 million tonnes of co2 equivalent have been saved in germany since 1990. that's a lot of money. during the same period, the member state of spain has blown up 100 million tonnes of co2 equivalent more. if you now want to punish spanish failures by punishing german companies, that is the wrong way to go, and that is why i ask my colleagues to support paragraph 75 which seeks to strengthen the responsibility of the member states. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. if i had more than two minutes, i would have broken down mr langen's arguments in a friendly manner. i think the commission has put forward a very good paper, which we have certainly improved, because parliament always does everything better. i want to make a statement on the following. first, we already have an emissions trading system. since 1996, some 70 million tons of co2 have been traded worldwide, assuming a price of $3 per ton. that's $210 million worth of trade, and that trade is growing exponentially. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. that's why it makes sense. i am very much in favour of taking account of the experience gained in the member states, which means that we need a transitional period, but that transitional period must come to an end. for me, the end is 2008. then the same rule must apply throughout europe. i would also point out that european competition law still applies to emissions trading and that the commission can always intervene in the market - despite kyoto - if it believes that competition is being distorted. this emissions trading is actually opening up a new era in our economy, because emissions - in this case co2 - are getting a price. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the raw materials and the quality of the products. we are moving towards a paradigm shift and i am sure that this will not be the last debate on this subject, but i hope that we will then be able to come to an understanding and reach a sensible solution on the basis of the parliament's decision.
- mr president, i have to go. we must be in favour of implementing the kyoto protocol, not only as economic actors, but also as member states and as the european union. mr langen should not forget that we live in a single market and the functioning of the single market is not designed to turn out the lights in europe, but that we are trying to create an environmentally compatible, sustainable economic growth in the interests of employment and saving the environment. i think it is therefore very right that the commission has taken note of the fact that there are already member states which are trading in emissions and there are already member states - as has been said several times today - which have made progress in reducing co2. it is therefore particularly important that we come to the reference year 1990. let me say, from an economic point of view, that it is extremely important to give away the emission allowances free of charge. we have nothing to do with auctions, as the bitter experience of the past has shown, from the banana licence trade to the umts licence auction, and that is why it is important to give this instrument away free of charge. this is important from the investment point of view, because we do not have a harmful ex ante burden on companies and, moreover, emissions trading does not act as a tax. this means that companies have the necessary resources to carry out research and development and to use energy-saving, low-emission processes. in addition, the free award of contracts ensures equality of opportunity for all participants and the transparency of the procedure. i think this is extremely important and i must say that from an economic policy point of view we welcome this proposal because it is at last helping to internalize external costs. but i would like to ask the commission very warmly to do everything possible to achieve the breakthrough also in the taxation framework directive, because this can only help to supplement taxes in the economy and thus help europe to succeed in achieving ... (the president interrupts the speaker.)
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by congratulating you, mr president, on the outcome in ireland. you fought an incredible battle with the support of many colleagues, all of whom i want to thank. i would also like to thank my irish colleagues in my group, fine gael, who are in opposition but who have clearly voted yes in their responsibility for europe. mr president, that is also a success for you and i congratulate you warmly. this is a success for all of us! (applause from the centre) there are situations in life when you don't feel like talking. such is the situation today. i would like to express my personal respect and sympathy to the president of the commission, romano prodi, as a person, as a human being. but i would add that this is not about human relations, but about the perception of responsibility. that is why our group, in its large majority, is of the very firm opinion that this is a process which must not be repeated in this way. (applause from the centre) the commission president said in le monde last friday:
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the application of the stability and growth pact has reached a dead end because it has been wrongly based on current budget deficits rather than structural deficits. the latter is what counts. how long has it taken the commission to admit this! i would remind you that in 1997 this european parliament considered that the stability and growth pact should be applied flexibly. there was a cross-party majority. the stability pact is in principle a suitable instrument for coordinating european fiscal policies. economic and monetary union needs a regulatory framework that is flexible in its application. it is then able to take account of the fluctuations in the business cycle. a rigid reading would, on the other hand, inflate budget deficits by reinforcing cyclical weakening trends and the associated decline in revenue and excess expenditure. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. their application should not be subject to non-redeemable good conduct clauses. otherwise, the objectives of the lisbon process competitiveness, full employment and social cohesion will not be achieved. the objective of a balanced budget, the middle of a cycle, must therefore always be seen against the background of the cyclical environment. the treaty and the pact therefore do not provide for a punctual landing at any time or a binding timetable. this is not a proper interpretation of the pact. the implementation of the pact is unsatisfactory because it does not focus enough on growth. a distinction must therefore be made between deficits resulting from current expenditure and those resulting from productive capital expenditure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary discipline is maintained. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. i expect a clear initiative here, mr prodi and mr solbes mira, also from the commission. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to make a preliminary remark to indicate the context in which we are holding this debate today. the member states of the european community currently have a debt mountain of 4,700 billion euros. this means that the member states of the european community have a total debt of 4.7 trillion euros. the annual interest payments on debt service alone amount to 230 billion euros a year. this is more than double the budget of the european union. mr president of the commission, i am sure you will agree with me that it would be foolish, stupid, to open those floodgates any further now. the stability and growth pact. what we've created here are very clear rules. the aim is balanced budgets the deficit cannot exceed 3%, and if this 3% rule is not respected, sanctions will be imposed. that is the crucial point, and that is the question we are facing now. the fact that these rules have created trust has helped your budget enormously, especially in your own country when you were prime minister. this trust has led to lower interest rates, and that has greatly eased your budget. secondly, i think it would be foolish to waste these advantages today. mr president of the commission, you have spoken of the need for an authority in europe which clearly functions as an economic government. you did not use that word, but what you meant is a european economic government. i agree with you. i think that only the commission can do that. but this economic government is expected to set rules and make sure that those rules are followed, that it gives the right signals. the signal you gave, mr president of the commission, with your interview with le monde was a false signal. we expect you to correct this today and to apply the rules of the stability and growth pact - as called for by the european parliament on 2 may 1997 - not flexibly but rigorously and consistently. (applause from the centre)
the commission is not prepared to accept this. a policy to limit government borrowing is acceptable if it is translated into practice by measures to limit inflation while simultaneously increasing growth. this is the crux of the present situation. the best way to produce growth is to boost demand: demand through public investment, through business investment and through private consumption. if, despite the european single market, it is still the national premise to gain location advantages within the european union - and this is possible because there is no sufficiently coordinated economic, fiscal and social policy - then the basic conditions for sustainable european growth simply do not exist. the increase in domestic demand cannot be achieved by lowering wages, because this reduces purchasing power, it cannot be achieved by taxing the medium-sized enterprises, which create the most jobs and training, and it cannot be achieved by relieving large companies of their burden of paying taxes at all. a reduction in investment rates in a downturn, even in the absence of significant inflation, is pro-cyclical and lacks any economic policy rationale. the budgets of the member states vary widely. shadow households are common. so there is no comparable basis for budgetary management and accounts even in the european union. therefore, if the discussion is held on amending the stability pact, it must not be because of the current complicated economic situation - this would be political opportunism - but it must be held because the construct does not work in principle. reform of the stability pact must be accompanied by increased coordination of european economic, social, employment, tax and environmental policies in order to stimulate investment.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the stability pact is not just any rule, but the heart of the euro. interestingly, the applause came from the wrong side. the inflation politicians of all countries felt confirmed and encouraged by the president of the commission's statement. the truth is this: all the statistics in economic history prove that long-term growth is only achievable with stability and a stable currency. if you have more debt, you don't get growth, you get inflation and stagnation. it was helmut schmidt who said: 'i prefer 5% inflation to 5% more unemployment.' then he got more inflation and more unemployment. this is the proven reality of the economic history of our continent. (interruption of the debate) how can the rules be observed, mr president of the commission, if they are also called stupid? isn't $4.7 trillion in debt god knows enough? making more debt is the easy way, but making less debt and fixing the budget is the hard way. but we know from the bible that the easy way leads to destruction. and the hard way, namely the reorganization of the budget, is the right way, and that is the way we do not want our governments to take any longer. no, that was a mistake, mr president of the commission! provocation, à la dandy, (interruption) that is fine, but we need serious politics here. only a serious policy is reliable and predictable. mr president of the commission, take back your statement for the sake of the success of the euro. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already done so. the report deals with one of the main problems facing the european constitutional convention: the integration of the charter of fundamental rights into the future european constitutional treaty and the guarantee of full protection of fundamental rights in the european union. parliament has long played a leading role in the union on this issue. this report, which is addressed directly to the convention, is a further demonstration of the political role of parliament. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur very much. i would therefore like to raise three questions which are also reflected in my amendments. first, many people rightly expect the convention to decide to include the charter in the constitutional treaty. it is therefore necessary to ensure that it does not only contain guiding principles for the institutions of the european union, but that it also gives rise to binding rights which must be safeguarded by the european union and which can be challenged before the court of justice by any citizen, if necessary. this is rightly expressed in the report as a demand, for example in paragraph 1. but if paragraph 2 of the report says that the charter of fundamental rights should be incorporated into european constitutional law only in the form of a preamble, then i think parliament is contradicting itself. the preamble may be the poster child for a future constitutional treaty, but it does not constitute a legally binding norm. i think that absolutely no one would understand such a position of parliament. secondly, we are right to call for the eu to join the echr. the position is already in the majority in the convention. if parliament is to continue to play its role as a driving force, i believe it must also clearly identify the problems associated with this. in my view, it is not sufficient to merely point out in recital z that the relationship between the ecj and the echr is the same as that between the national constitutional court and the echr. this statement obscures a problem, because the question of the relationship between the national constitutional courts and the strasbourg court is assessed very differently in the fifteen member states. i think that the constitutional treaty must give its own answer to this question in the report. the third point i will tell the rapporteur later.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the charter is a milestone on the road to genuine citizenship of the union and it also documents the fact that people should be at the centre of european politics and not just the market or power. i therefore join all those who say that these rights must not be merely on paper. they must also be binding. i congratulate the commissioner and the rapporteur on the intention to make the charter part of the constitutional treaty. i also think that it should not just be mentioned in the preamble, but the charter should be the first chapter of the constitution. we always say that this constitution should be read in school. the charter is a marvellously readable document and would be a good introduction to the european constitution. i therefore believe that it should be printed in its entirety, because it reflects the values of europe. my second thought is that the charter should be adopted without amendments. it was discussed at length in the first convention and i cannot see that the charter is being changed again. the cross-sectional articles could be edited, but not substantially altered. it says everything about the scope, so there's no need to double it and complicate it. i would like to thank our rapporteur for his excellent report. this will be an important document for the convention.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission's proposal under discussion and the parliament's report on it can be described without any qualms as a revelation of the european institutions' asylum policy. mr vitorino, you bear the main responsibility for the fact that in three years your house has not succeeded in presenting a single compromise proposal on the right of asylum. what is even worse is that in your house there is not even a clear separation, legally practicable, between the three pillars of labour migration, asylum and subsidiary protection. that is why your proposals are regularly thrown into the council's wastebasket. but the left wing of this house also bears a fair share of responsibility for the failure so far. the commission is already going beyond the harmonization of minimum standards, but the left wing of this house is basically extending the proposals. but the culmination of all this is falsehood. because while you are making great speeches in this house about asylum policy and are being celebrated as a defender of the rights of refugees, your own left-wing governments, for example in the united kingdom and germany, are boasting of a restrictive asylum policy. mr cohn-bendit himself spoke on french television last week in favour of stricter rules. why would you do that? because you are under a very different kind of public scrutiny at home, and you have a responsibility to our citizens there. their capacity for integration has its limits, which they consistently ignore. we shall therefore put our motions to the vote by name tomorrow, to show the public your hypocrisy. the report is not a new proposal from you, mr president, to extend the concept of refugee far beyond the geneva convention. it has always been rejected by us and by the council, including the red-green minister in the german federal government. people who are granted subsidiary protection should, if you will, be treated in much the same way as recognised asylum seekers. that doesn't make any sense. in germany we have had experience with civil war refugees who do not apply for asylum because they usually want to return to their country after the civil war has ended. they are not supposed to be integrated into the host country, nor do they want to be. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the children of refugees are not forced to go to school. most of the children do not speak a word of the language of the host country. and instead of a one-year review, you want a five-year review! i do not see, however, a situation in which the conditions for subsidiary protection are met for five years. no, different groups need different regulations. the council is therefore right to call for two different approaches. why does this directive again deal with family reunification? i think that after the first flop that the commission and you have produced here, are you, commissioner, working on a new, holistic approach? yes, what now - the overall concept or the rules in each individual proposal? the council will no doubt throw this proposal in the trash as well. and you will in future prefer to talk about open coordination and thus conceal the political failure of a european asylum system that you have provoked. your proposals are damaging to european integration. we reject them and support the amendments tabled by our group and by your chairman, mr hernández mollar. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission's draft directive aims to ensure a minimum level of protection in the member states for those third-country nationals who are in real need of protection. but this also implies a reduction in secondary migration along this route, in other words, the abuse of asylum, as mr vitorino has said. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is not a good one. the fact that none of the previous drafts of directives on this subject has been adopted by the council shows how sensitive the asylum issue is in all the member states. i therefore believe that the rapporteur's approach is completely wrong, in that it extends the commission's proposal, which is already very far-reaching, even further. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the asylum seekers are granted asylum in the member states. but it is not intended to be taken seriously as a european parliament in our countries. proposals to extend the scope of asylum to citizens of the european union show that for some meps, ideologies are more important than sensible solutions. but the citizens of our countries rightly expect solutions. the people of our member states share our common view that humanitarian aid should be given to those who are persecuted. but that does not mean that all the social, economic or environmental problems of the world can be solved by granting asylum. on the contrary, it leads to the erosion of the great good of the right to asylum. it is our task as representatives of the people to find pragmatic solutions for the european union on the one hand and for asylum seekers on the other. a forward-looking asylum policy in the eu must also take into account the sensitivities and needs of the people in our member states. the report does not do this at all, and that is why the epp group rejects it. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think one thing is absolutely true: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the distinction between the refugee regime and the subsidiary protection regime, for example, is a point we have to discuss. we all probably have different opinions on that. i would also like to say that the commission has been very careful in its approach to the problem of family reunification, and that it is not a matter of the member states being able to do so. but on the other hand, it is of course a positive thing that we finally have a directive or at least make an attempt to set minimum standards and, by creating such minimum standards, perhaps also finally achieve the objective of preventing secondary immigration. i understand that my colleagues in the other groups do not agree with all the points. but i also want to remind you that we are members of parliament. i am not a minister of a nation state and therefore do not have to be strict and worry about how to persuade and convince my danish or dutch colleagues. i am a member of parliament and in parliament i enjoy the freedom to act in accordance with my conscience. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. i can formulate my ideas so that they are not necessarily adopted by the council in the form of a directive, but may contribute to the debate as a position paper by parliament. i hope that we will be able to adopt this draft tomorrow!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think mr de gaulle has forgotten that we are talking about the theatre, not television or journalists. i would like to speak on the subject on the agenda. i would like to congratulate mrs fraisse and comment on a few points which have not yet been discussed today. first of all, i am glad that after ten years a colleague is raising the subject again, because in ten years it has lost none of its relevance. i made a report in 1992 on the situation of artists and can only say that i am now looking in vain for results which the commission could have achieved in those ten years. i also think that the issues raised here are very diverse, and yet i would like to limit myself to two things. firstly, it concerns the financing of this cultural sector, both at national and european level. it is the subject of political speeches, but not of political action. so i think there's a lot of uncertainty here. i would like to point out that two things need to be improved. firstly, the 2000 programme, which mrs reding has already mentioned, must be given more money; if the council of ministers suddenly thinks that culture is so important, then it should also give money for it. we should also remember that it is the performing arts that reach very specific audiences. in this respect, these are small projects which the commission does not like, but which we want because they reach the people! secondly, the private sector must be involved more than ever. the patronage, the sponsorship is important. the budget is empty, so we must look for ways of getting people who have a lot of money to spend it properly. that's why we should do more for this cause. i regret that in my country, with these coalition agreements, this is precisely what is being abolished. thirdly, there are many technical obstacles to artists' access to their material, and it is in this area that the commission could really do something, for example, with regard to the circus, with regard to the small travelling theatres. please do something in this area, it would help the artists a lot!
- the next item is the joint debate on the following three reports by mrs rosemarie müller, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy: - a5-0330/2002 on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council (com (2001) 404 - c5-0591/2001 - 2001/0252 (cod)) establishing community procedures for the authorisation, supervision and pharmacovigilance of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products; - a5-0340/2002 by mrs françoise grossetête, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 2001/83/ec on the community code relating to medicinal products for human use; - a5-0334/2002 by mrs françoise grossetête, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2001/82/ec on the community code relating to veterinary medicinal products (com (2001) 404 - c5-0593/2001 - 2001/0254 (cod)) i call commissioner liikanen to speak.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. with the present legislation we have to ask ourselves whether we need more europe in the authorization of new innovative medicines or whether the mutual recognition procedure is the optimal approach. in other words, do we want a more internal market for medicines on the basis that patients across europe will have access to new, safe and effective medicines more quickly, or is the extremely cumbersome authorisation procedure intended to keep patients away from new medicines for as long as possible in the future? i am in favour of extending the scope of authorization to medicinal products containing new active substances. this is not only beneficial for patients, it is also beneficial for companies, who can bring medicines to market faster than before and thus improve their competitiveness. the aid for smes compensates for the difficulties of central authorization which they are facing. i believe that the patient and his needs should be at the heart of legislation. this means that the safety and efficacy of a medicinal product must be a central issue in the marketing authorisation procedure. the procedure must be transparent. it is therefore essential that patients, doctors and businesses have access to all non-confidential information. a public database will provide comprehensive information on the status of the marketing authorisation procedure, on clinical trials carried out, on side effects and on the prices of medicinal products. in this context, i regret that the commission's information project on asthma, diabetes and aids did not find a majority in the committee. the commission proposal was certainly misunderstood and raised the concern that advertising for prescription medicines would be allowed. the committee's decision, however, provided an opportunity to improve patient information. i am sure that this mistake will have to be corrected in the next few years. pharmacovigilance, i.e. the monitoring and reporting of adverse reactions, is important for the safety of a medicine. the obligation to report adverse reactions and the obligation to report periodically to the marketing authorisation authority ensure a continuous comprehensive evaluation of a medicinal product. the safety net in the field of pharmacovigilance is tightly knit. this makes it easier to identify side effects and provides the opportunity for rapid action in the event of a crisis. for these reasons, a re-authorisation procedure may be waived after five years. another focus of the reform is to prepare the bodies of the european medicines agency for future tasks and eu enlargement. the structure of the eu food authority will also be introduced at the european medicines agency, with open procedures for candidates for the management board and the administrative director. high scientific competence and a disclosure of interests are the prerequisites for membership of a body of the agency. in addition to the existing scientific committees, there will be an equal committee on herbal medicines. the commission will therefore be able to grant voluntary central marketing authorizations for herbal medicines. this will give patients across europe access to proven herbal medicines. in addition to the important point of health protection for patients, there is also the question of the competitiveness and innovation capacity of the pharmaceutical industry in europe. the harmonization of the protection of the underlying material is certainly a step towards greater competitiveness. the current rules in europe set it at between six and ten years and there is an urgent need for harmonisation. the ten-year plan is a signal to the pharmaceutical companies to intensify research and bring real innovation to the market. it is also a signal to generic manufacturers to use the bolar system. the commission proposal is, in my view, a successful attempt to strike a balance between the legitimate concerns of pharmaceutical companies to protect records and the public health systems' desire to improve access to low-cost generic medicines. overall, this legislation is an important contribution to improving healthcare in europe, which will benefit patients in the long term. (applause from the centre)
the committee on budgets, which is consulted, adopted the opinion. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. as the permanent rapporteur for the agencies in the committee on budgets, i have also followed these reports, since they concern the basic regulation of the london medicines agency, the agency for the authorisation of medicinal products. i am very grateful to the rapporteur and to the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection for including our suggestions in their reports. i would like to make one point very clear to parliament, and this of course also applies to the commission and the member states: when i give an agency new tasks, i have to think about where the money is going to come from. i can't keep expanding an agency indefinitely. we have a general budget and only a certain amount is available to us. parliament cannot raise the amount either. we can only change the layers. so in the future, if we want to provide funding to one agency, we have to take it away from another agency. i know i'm not making a big deal out of myself, but that's not why i'm here. we must remember that an agency can only carry out the tasks assigned to it with the money allocated to it and cannot operate at will beyond that. that's not possible because we don't have the money.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we are dealing today with a comprehensive new regulation of the whole of european pharmaceutical legislation. this has an impact on the competitiveness of the industry concerned of all sizes and thus on many jobs. but it also affects the whole of commerce, the pharmacists and, finally, the patients. this mammoth undertaking is one of the results of the commission's new strategy, which it has been pursuing for some years now. the aim is to reduce the volume of community legislation, which currently stands at over 80 000 pages, in order to simplify and streamline community law. the new version will be adopted as a single act incorporating the desired substantive changes and then codifying the remaining provisions. the difficulty of this undertaking is not only documented by the numerous amendments already before the committee responsible and now again before the plenary. i have the greatest respect for the immense work done by the commission and also by our two rapporteurs, mrs grossetête and mrs müller. but i'm quite concerned that, overall, the picture might get a little lost and that seemingly less important things might be left out. i would therefore like to draw attention to homeopathic medicines, not only for humans but also for animals, and i would ask that these amendments be supported. the european parliament is a co-legislator and we must ensure that it is worked carefully. we have many opportunities in the first reading, but we must also keep open the possibilities for the second reading. i therefore ask for support, but i also ask the legal service and our rapporteurs to check the final result to see if it is consistent. but whether this pharmaceutical legislation will, as a result, become easier to apply for member states and actors by reducing linguistic complexity, the future will tell. i thank all those who have contributed and i hope that we succeed in this great work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we all know from our own experience that there is no real single market for pharmaceuticals in the european union. we have price differences between belgium and germany of up to 400%, and this cannot be explained by different vat rates! i'm afraid we're focusing too much on approval in these reports. i hope, however, that the transparency we have called for and are calling for here will also lead to consumers in the future being able to understand better why there are such large price differences between the member states. it is not acceptable that we have a single european market which is clearly not the case for the pharmaceutical industry. i hope that transparency will also make it clearer what the interconnection between public research and industrial research looks like, that the databases will also make it clearer in the future who has participated in certain clinical trials and to what extent public studies are funded. i am also glad that we have succeeded in excluding advertising, because that would have only served to create unrealistic expectations in patients. it's about better products and lower prices, not more advertising!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to congratulate the two rapporteurs on their excellent work. i believe that the proposals are a good basis for the functioning of the internal market in medicinal products for both human and veterinary use. i do not define the internal market as price stability but as price equality; that is something else entirely and has nothing to do with the internal market. these proposals will also continue to strengthen research. so research is worthwhile again and the generic manufacturers can exist. i also believe that these proposals will make it possible to take full advantage of the opportunities to protect the health of citizens. the promotion of research is particularly aimed at harmonising the protection of data in the european union, while at the same time facilitating the activities of generic manufacturers. i fully support this and no further demands should be made by the parties concerned. i think that the extension of the central authorization procedure for medicinal products, as applied by the commission in the committee, does not comply with the principles mentioned. the current two-pillar authorisation procedure fully meets the requirements of the internal market and guarantees a greater diversity of medicinal products, including small batches. the compulsory use of the central procedure for new active substance units, which is now planned, will eliminate competition between authorization procedures. we can list in the regulation as many processing times as we want - without competition the data is waste! i know a great many mediumsized companies which are involved in research and development, particularly in the field of so-called orphan drugs or veterinary medicines. they're developing these drugs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we shall be able to bring this research to a halt. we cannot accept that. that is why we should not support the amendment proposed here.
mr president, i agree that the improvement of health care is the most important objective, but i also agree that research must be encouraged. the research incentives provided for will strengthen the competitiveness of industry and thus safeguard the approximately 500 000 jobs in europe, but we will also encourage the development of new medicines. the present proposal for a regulation and the two directives also require the pharmaceutical industry to demonstrate its capacity for innovation in the face of almost optimal conditions - the level of protection of the material is nowhere higher than in europe. patients need innovative new drugs, not analogues that burden our health systems with no added benefit to patients. i think that parliament should keep in mind the three objectives of high health protection, strengthening competitiveness and safeguarding jobs in the further consultation process.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i thank mrs grossetête and mrs müller for their comprehensive reports. we are voting tomorrow on the biggest package of revisions to the legislation on medicines in the european union to date. the central objectives are: firstly, to ensure a high level of health protection and rapid access for patients to innovative products; secondly, the quality, safety and efficacy of medicinal products in europe; and thirdly, to further reduce existing barriers to trade within the internal market. medicinal products must be used in a proper and appropriate manner. it is therefore essential to establish a clear legal separation between information and advertising. all product information must be scientifically checked before publication. the rules on medicinal products should apply only to products which have a therapeutic benefit and are intended for therapeutic use. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the achievements of industrial research in terms of innovative therapeutic applications must be recognised by adequate protection of the substrate for so-called original products. i also support amendment no 40, which grants existing medicinal products additional three-year protection for a new indication. the aim is to ensure that generic medicines, which must of course meet all the requirements as regards quality, safety and efficacy, can be established on the european market and marketed immediately after the expiry of the protection period for the original. the choice between the central and the decentralised procedure, as it has been since 1995, should be maintained in the authorisation procedure. it has brought about a significant increase in efficiency in the approval procedures and has not led to the feared polarization. the continuation of mutual recognition is essential for smes in europe. we need to create a system that encourages innovation for the benefit of all patients. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i support in principle the commission proposal and the reports by mrs grossetête and mrs müller. i would like to take a different view on a number of points. there is one point which has not been mentioned in the debate, although i think it is quite important. the commission proposes to harmonise the prescription requirement for medicinal products also under the decentralised procedure. i think this is a step in the right direction, but we can't throw the baby out with the bath. i think we should be careful here, because if all the drugs that are available on the open market today end up being prescription drugs, then that is certainly problematic for the consumer and unreasonable in terms of the cost to the health system. i therefore ask you to support amendment no 151, which i tabled with a number of colleagues. the second important point has been mentioned many times, but it cannot be stressed enough. we must find a system which is acceptable to the mediumsized pharmaceutical industry. we cannot create legislation which only global players like pfizer can finally comply with. we need to adapt the rules for smes. in this context, many aspects are important, for example the amendment tabled by mr nisticò. three years of protection for an additional indication - which is perhaps more feasible for smes than protection for a completely new substance. i have spoken out in committee against the pilot project on information and currency, because it is simply not in my view possible for us to have an extension of information for three specific indications, but a much stricter regulation in other areas. we need information for all indications and for all diseases, and there should be no advertising for prescription drugs under any circumstances. that is why i agree with the committee's decision. the committee has, however, exceeded its target in some areas, and information which the pharmaceutical industry can now provide should no longer be acceptable. we must improve on that in the vote tomorrow. in conclusion, i would ask the commission to submit a proposal on the safety of medicinal products for children very quickly. i know that the commission staff here and the commissioner here consider this very important, but we have been waiting too long for a concrete legislative proposal. i would ask you to submit it later this year. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am not referring to fish in a pan like mr fatuzzo, but to a serious problem in the context of the lambert report. the spd members of the european parliament have voted in favour of this report, although we can understand the difficulties that a number of colleagues have had in voting in favour of this report. i would like to mention one crucial point which led us to approve this report, although we wanted to make it structurally different. the point is that refugees, specifically those who are politically persecuted, and those who need temporary protection by the european union should be treated equally under the framework of mrs lambert's directive. this is not unjustified in principle as regards the care and benefits that these groups of persons should receive in the member states of the eu. on the contrary, we do not want people who are on the run to be treated differently. but what we are concerned about is that there has to be a qualifying distinction between someone who is politically persecuted, who goes into exile as a dissident in a dictatorship and needs protection there, and people who are fleeing a temporary, let's say, civil war situation and therefore only temporarily, and also, if necessary, only subsidiary protection in the sense of the geneva refugee convention. but mrs lambert's directive covers all these groups of people. we would have thought that a distinction should have been made. in german constitutional law we also make this distinction in principle, because under article 16 of the german constitution we define an enforceable right to protection against political persecution, but not an enforceable right to subsidiary protection. we in the german social democrats have therefore voted in favour of this report despite all the reservations we have, not least because it would not have been produced otherwise and because it is advisable for this parliament to give its views in consultation with the council. (applause from the centre)
- the report by mr göran färm (a5-0350/2002) on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2003 [11138/2002 - c5-0300/2002 - 2002/2004 (bud)) and on letter of amendment no 1/2003 to the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2003 [12640/2002 - c5-0480/2002];
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by thanking our two rapporteurs. it was a swedish experience that parliament made and i think it was a good experience because it was based on consensus and was as inventive as it was flexible, because it also took into account structural aspects. the budgetary procedure certainly has structural side effects which need to be examined in depth. i would also like to make the following observation: it has been pointed out on several occasions that this is the last budget before enlargement, which will only apply to 15 countries. i hope that this will also be one of the last budgets before the convention actually gives us, the parliament, full budgetary rights, at least in the medium term, for all types of expenditure policy and for revenue policy. that is a demand we have made. you know that i have also made this request in every budgetary procedure - ceterum censeo, i will just say that here. i think it is important that we also contribute to the democratization of the budgetary procedure. the budget, as we are drawing it up now, is characterized by the fact that in the budgetary procedure, even during the discussions, we are arguing very hard about every single million, sometimes every thousand, but we have to rearrange a lot of things over and over again in the course of the year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we will have 70 to 80 transfers of funds, which means that we have a lot of laying around. we have not only started this year, but also in previous years, during the budgetary procedure and at the very end of the year, to finance things by 'frontloading' which would actually fall into the next year. we are demonstrating by this pragmatism that we are prepared to finance the needs of european policy, but also that we have decided at the beginning of the year on a budget which, in the end, gives so much flexibility and scope that it is not as reliable at the end of the year as we had hoped at the beginning and as we should have believed, after having had such heated arguments on certain points. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. we should take this into account in the coming weeks, months and years as we develop budgetary policy. the 2003 budget is, as the commissioner has said, a more frugal one. we will spend 1.05 per cent of our gross national product on all the tasks we have to do in the european union. if we look at the situation of the net contributor countries, which are so often debated, we find that even the largest net contributors pay no more than 0.3 to 0.7% of their gross national product. that is between 0.3% for my own country and 0.7% of gross national product to finance this european policy. 0.3% for germany! this is the fierce debate we always have about how expensive it all is! we are trying to be frugal with our resources in the budget. we are careful to maintain the balance. this is the task of the future - first of all the balances on this continent. we need a long-term financial balance in europe. we must ensure that our institutions are able to function, whether in the light of enlargement or the ageing of our institutions and the european union as a whole. these are long-term tasks. we must ensure that the people of europe who trust us can count on financial stability and not be overwhelmed by short-term changes. i say this very specifically for the agricultural sector, but also for regional policy. we are also interested in reforms in the field of regional policy, in reducing backlogs. i would like to say, however, commissioner, that it is not enough for mr barnier to look at how bureaucracy can be reduced in the area of the structural funds. this is a theme that applies to all the european union's grant programmes. i would be glad if the other commissioners concerned would behave similarly. so we need a balance on the continent. but we europeans also need a balance between the continents, because we are not an island of the fortunate, but there are relations between the continents. in recent years, we have repeatedly contributed to the provision of aid in other parts of the world through our foreign policy. this has become increasingly difficult because we have been adding new tasks to what we had originally set out to do: financing, reconstruction, the balkans, financing reconstruction in afghanistan, but also the great task of global health, which is to fight aids. this is not just an issue for africa, but it is an issue for the whole world and also for the european continent. we need to provide money for this. we can talk about financing, mrs schreyer, but it is undeniable that we have a responsibility here that we must live up to. it's hard to deal with all this. category 4 has been a big problem for us this year, as it has been in previous years. we'll be flexible enough to eliminate all the problems in the world. but let us be clear about one thing: the citizens of europe can count on us to look after their interests on this continent. but we also look at the continent's position in the world. we will be economical, solid, but also forward-looking with them. (applause from the centre)
- mrs buitenweg, i understand your pain when you say that you are not used to speaking after the gue/ngl group, but to reassure yourself, you have had three times as much speaking time. it's still very nice.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in march 2002, the european parliament adopted a motion for a resolution on the guidelines for the 2003 budget. a number of issues have been identified as being of major importance for the sustainability of agriculture and rural development. this includes tasks such as the mid-term review of agenda 2000, consumer protection and eastern enlargement. i hope that the commission will have the courage and the right competence to tackle these long-term objectives in budgetary implementation and not be distracted by the day-to-day political demands. i hope that patterns of conflict such as lack of accounting, cheating and manipulation will be replaced by transparency and strict discipline in budget implementation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the agricultural sector in the community. the proposals of eu commissioner fischler do not find support in their current form, which refers to majorities. so we have to work on that. despite the major economic and social adjustment of the eu's candidate countries, the berlin decisions provide for the transfer of funds for the candidate countries for pre-accession aid and also for enlargement expenditure to be maintained as defined and known. several discussions in which i have taken part have reinforced my view that the 25% direct payment scheme is politically unviable for the applicant countries, and that the applicant countries are also concerned about high losses and are calling for an accession discount and modified quotas. this has a major impact on the financing of agricultural policy and the financial perspective as it stands will have to be revised. how much is the extension? that's the question. the question of how to respond to it with the 2003 budget remains open. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by saying that i find it very regrettable that the other half of the budgetary authority is not here today. it would be appropriate for the council to be involved in these debates. even if we had a fundamental debate on the budget last week in the plenary, it would be appropriate to be present when it becomes concrete - and it will be very concrete indeed at the first reading of parliament. i am therefore very pleased that we have tabled a motion which puts the increase in council posts in reserve and puts some questions to it. i hope that this motion will then also receive a sufficient majority. it is linked to conditions which the council can meet by the end of the year, so that enlargement is not jeopardised in the council. i should like to begin by thanking the council for the good work that has been done this morning on the solidarity fund and for the fact that we have been able to reach an agreement. i hope, however, that the member states concerned, and in particular the federal government, will now also report their figures quickly. we have made every effort to meet the budgetary conditions. now we've both met. we have budget lines, we have a legal basis, and now we just need to get money for it. if the commission lacks information on this, i find it more than shameful. we're at the end of october, and they should be available. i would like to highlight a few aspects because my group's colleagues have already raised a number of them. a basic observation first: it is becoming increasingly clear that what the heads of state or government agreed in march 1999 in the context of agenda 2000 and the financial perspective up to 2006 was a wish list which might have been useful from the 1999 time horizon, but which has nothing to do with the current challenges facing the union. i want to put this down to two numbers: if we are able to spend 42 billion euros on the agricultural policy according to the forecast, but only 47 million euros on common activities for the common foreign and security policy after a great deal of effort, then this shows a mismatch in the political priorities. in the area of category 4 of europe's activities as peacemaker with our neighbours - and this is an important task which we have to carry forward as european heritage to other regions - we are still on very, very weak feet. the decision taken in march 1999 does not help to meet these commitments in the long term. i hope that there are instruments here - we have tried to support this through various proposals - and that we will finally have more opportunities to meet this important task of the european union in the 21st century. let me turn to a second point, on which i would also like to ask for the support of the other groups. we have tabled a motion for the elimination of the bottlenecks in the transeuropean networks, particularly with regard to the enlargement countries. i would be glad if he could find a majority in this house. it cannot be that enlargement cannot actually take place in the end. it will be contractual, but it will not be economically viable unless the appropriate infrastructure is in place. the community is called upon to do this. we are doing a lot with the countries that want to join, but we still need to step up our efforts.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have already discussed in the debate two weeks ago some of the priorities of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy in the 2003 budget. i should like to concentrate today on a few remarks on the text we have agreed with the council on future cooperation in the common foreign and security policy. the committee on budgets proposes, for further negotiations with the council, the introduction of an interinstitutional mechanism involving parliament more closely before the council takes decisions on financial commitments for external policy. in recent years we have been faced with the problem that the council - especially because of the crises in the 1990s - made commitments and then parliament had to make cuts in other foreign policy priorities with emergency measures. we therefore want a mechanism in which the council involves parliament at the preliminary stage, and we propose, firstly, that parliament be consulted at the stage of considering possible joint actions, if necessary also in a confidential manner. secondly, we demand that parliament be informed by the chairman or the representative of the chairman of the political and security committee of a mandate and, above all, of the financial implications of a joint action. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is an offer to the council, and only if we get a satisfactory result here will we approve the funds for the police mission in bosnia at second reading. the first signs are very positive and i believe that this is a very important step towards parliamentary control of the common foreign and security policy in the future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the broad lines of our future budget for 2003 have already been drawn up by our colleagues and rapporteurs, mr göran färm and mr per stenmarck. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i want to do that too, adding one of those little accents that mrs buitenweg mentioned. i am thinking, as i have been for a long time, of small and mediumsized enterprises, and above all micro-enterprises. we cannot invent a new priority every year, so i will stick to it. i would therefore like to repeat what many of you know, but it does not hurt to recall that 99% of all companies in europe have fewer than 50 employees. they employ more than half of all the people in employment and account for about half of the total turnover in the european union. the average number of employees in a company is five. smes are the ones who are very innovative and growth oriented. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the unemployed. that's what counts for a social democrat! we are already doing a lot at european level to strengthen the competitiveness of smes. the multiannual programme for enterprises and entrepreneurship is to be recalled. but we want to do more. the project 'smes in border regions' is to be joined by the project 'smes and enlargement' and - at least some social democrats have made a firm commitment to this - we want a project that helps smes to implement the concept 'social responsibility in enterprises - a business contribution to sustainable development'. the existing proposals are more and more geared to large enterprises. whoever it is, they were involved in the preparation. we don't think that's wrong, not at all. but we now want to add the guidelines for our small and mediumsized enterprises. we want the sme and social responsibility pilot project.
i have to say, madam president, the 2003 budgetary procedure largely took account of the requests of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, of which i am rapporteur. unfortunately, three of the committee's motions which are important to me have been rejected or amended. they will be put to the vote again in plenary. firstly, they concern cooperation with third countries in the field of migration. we want to add 5 000 000 euros to the commitments. i am convinced that the only way to improve the situation is through increased cooperation, and that means financial efforts by the european union. secondly, they refer to the european refugee fund. i don't think i need to talk about it for long, because it's already known. the third point is the funding of celex. we have implemented a lot of things, despite the change in the situation since the attacks in the united states, without requiring dramatically higher expenditure. i therefore think that our demands - these three points - are all justified, and i ask you to vote in that spirit.
commission. – the intergovernmental negotiating body for the who framework convention on tobacco control is at the moment holding its fifth meeting in geneva. concerning the regulation of contents of tobacco products, the text released by the chair for further discussion does not set harmonised standards but provides for each party to adopt and implement standards as recommended by the conference of the parties, including standards and best practices for testing and measuring the content and emissions of such products. the final text of the convention is expected to be ready in march 2003. should this provision become a part of the final text of the framework convention, and considering the timetable foreseen for the establishment of the conference of the parties, it is indeed possible that such recommendations could be produced by 2007. the commission believes that the adoption of common standards for the regulation of the content of tobacco products and emissions and the adoption of common rules for measurement methods are essential measures to be taken by all parties to the convention. recommendations made by the conference of the parties can be a very important instrument for harmonising standards, and parties should therefore be called upon to duly consider them. however, as such harmonisation could lead to a lowering of the level of public health protection, the community's position is that such recommendations should not be binding. that is to say, their adoption should be left to the discretion of the parties. this would allow parties, such as the community, to keep their already existing strong legislation in this field. in this context, i would like to draw to mr wuermeling's attention the fact that, according to the negotiating directives provided by the council, the negotiations must aim to base the operative provisions of the framework convention on existing community legislation. finally, concerning the very last part of mr wuermeling's question, the commission firmly believes that the negotiations on the framework convention will be successful and is doing its utmost to ensure that an efficient instrument with the maximum impact on tobacco consumption will be agreed upon. however, in the extremely unlikely event that the negotiations should fail, the commission would not see this as a reason to propose modifying the provisions of directive 2001/37 on exports.
- mr president, i have to go. i should like to begin by thanking you very much for the information and apologizing to mr wuermeling, who had to go to berlin at a very short notice for an important meeting. i would like to add two brief questions which the commissioner may be able to answer briefly together. could it not be that the commission's reservation in the negotiations of amending the directive on export bans, if necessary, might improve its negotiating position in the negotiations, since it could in turn put pressure on the other countries to follow such a recommendation? secondly, if the negotiations fail, do you expect large-scale relocations of production from the european area to third countries? does the commission know or have any estimates of the number of jobs that could be lost in the european union as a result?
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. this report, if adopted, will be a step in the right direction. why new land? because, thanks to an institutional agreement with the council, we have the opportunity to inspect military secret documents and obtain information, and to develop a method which also allows parliamentary control in these areas. the european council has been in the process of negotiating for many years, and i would like to thank the swedish presidency, which has been in office for a long time, and the spanish presidency for their help in bringing us here today. of course, this paper is not perfect. we're entering new territory here, and that's why we need to learn. but we must not go too far in advance, because this is a very sensitive area, where the security interests of our member states of the european union and our fellow citizens as a whole are at stake. the council and parliament must therefore learn to deal with each other, to build trust, and on this basis set in motion the necessary information and control processes. we have therefore also made it clear that either side can terminate the agreement after two years in order to draw up a new agreement on the basis of experience, and that this is not a permanent commitment but merely an introduction to this sensitive issue of internal security. it is also expressly stated that this agreement in the field of foreign, security and defence policy does not prejudice other agreements on the transparency of internal documents for internal policies. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i 'll make this very clear . i think it is quite conceivable, indeed necessary, that measures should be taken in the fields of internal politics, where certain sensitivities could go much further than in this document, even at first, because of the possible involvement of foreign states. i believe that we have created something here that is quite capable of standing up to the standards of national parliaments, and that the security standards we have to develop in this house must certainly also help us to meet the requirements, as must those who work in the five-member body to meet the security checks of their respective member countries. this means that there is no separate system here either, but that the comparability with national parliamentarians is given. on this basis, we can come up with solutions that will help us. i would ask you to support both these amendments to the rules of procedure and the agreement itself. i also ask that the first amendment be rejected, because this is about the extreme case of criminal transgressions - on either side. this is a case which could be made for any question of the treatment of public funds and public documents. that is regulated in other areas - not in the rules of procedure - and it does not need to be regulated here either. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is not the commission's intention to take action in this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe that this is a step towards transparency and control of foreign, security and defence policy, and if someone had told me five or ten years ago that we would be negotiating the establishment of such a committee in the european parliament, i would have thought it impossible. this shows the development of the european union as a whole since the treaty of amsterdam and the cologne summit in the field of security and defence policy. it is also a sign of the need for parliamentary control that goes with it. i therefore ask the house to support this initiative.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to go. these safety measures have been presented and discussed in the committee responsible. this agreement may be accepted or rejected independently. however, since the safety measures have not yet been adopted, it cannot enter into force. that is why the institutional agreement can be adopted tomorrow. let me make a brief comment to my colleagues: this is all about foreign, security and defence policy, which are not all part of the legislation. mr bonde: that is why no papers dealing with legislation are dealt with in this committee. mr turco is dealing with justice and home affairs. i have explicitly said that the agreement recommends that a separate agreement be negotiated in this area, which in my view should take parliament's rights into account in a much broader way. if that fails, mrs hautala is right that there is a possibility of appeal, according to the possibilities available. i would also like to say to mrs hautala and others: only if we know the papers can we also say whether there are justified classifications. if we see that documents which should be available to the whole parliament are not made available, we can say that these classifications are not correct and thus create a different practice in the council. but if we do not know about the documents, we cannot criticize them. we must say: it is also a new beginning for the council and the commission to have access to such documents. without such an agreement we shall have difficulty in pursuing a european foreign and security policy at all. the commission has therefore a common interest in finding a way forward.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr martin has invested a great deal of time and effort in this report, and i give him my full appreciation for it. we also had good talks with each other, mr rapporteur. discharge is the most important power of parliament as a supervisory body when it comes to the assessment of the management of the budget by the executive, i.e. first and foremost the commission. it is a political act and not just the clearance of accounts, important as that is. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are pointing out weaknesses so that they can be corrected and avoided in future budgets. i think it is right to set deadlines for the three ways of discharge - granting, postponing or refusing - as the rapporteur has clearly outlined, so that we do not have two discharges running in parallel, as has often happened in the past, but one procedure is completed before the next one begins and the two stages can work. i believe, mrs schreyer, that the timeframe - including the summer break - is sufficient to arrive at constructive solutions in good time. i cannot accept, however, mr rapporteur, that the discharge should be considered as granted if the plenary rejects the proposal for postponement put forward by the committee on budgetary control in april. this rejection may be motivated by conflicting interests and does not express the clear will of parliament. that is what the legal service's report says. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether the commission will take a decision on the matter. i would therefore have liked the proposal to be referred back to the committee on budgetary control in its three parts. if the discrepancies between the vote and the resolution referred to in paragraph 3 of the new article 5a should arise, the committee on budgetary control should be entrusted with the task of eliminating them and resubmitting the resolution to the plenary. but as has already been said, my group's amendments have been withdrawn. i have to say, however, from my own experience - that although i can accept some of the points in this report - i have already said this - i do not feel able to agree to the report unless the question of postponement and therefore the granting of discharge is settled in a different way.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the technical and health protection of workers is an undisputed area of activity of the european union, alongside the free movement of workers, with a clear legal basis. the adoption of minimum rules in this area is necessary to avoid competitive advantages in the european internal market which can be obtained, so to speak, at the expense of the working population. in this sense, it is also welcome that the commission is thinking about the future and setting priorities. the emphasis should be on women and disabled people in particular, as this report also expresses. i am rather reserved, however, in the face of attempts to bring all possible aspects of working life into a european regulation in the further interpretation of legislation. in this area too, there must be room for national specificities and autonomy. we are indeed facing major changes in working life in europe. there are fewer and fewer workers in the classical sense. the so-called atypical working conditions are on the increase, and i cannot help but suspect that, in the absence of solutions to the real problems, we are increasingly producing papers and declarations of intent which do little to help the workers in their actual workplace. it seems to me that the protection of workers is declining, the role of work as a factor of production is being weakened and the need for protection of the worker is being overlooked, whether due to the much-cited globalisation or due to a general socio-political development. the commission has therefore decided to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union. the level of protection we have achieved as a european common good must be maintained and implemented in the applicant countries, not just on paper but in reality. we all know that paper is patient, even and especially in europe. but the protection of workers which we have achieved is at the heart of the social dimension of this europe which is becoming more integrated. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission. - mr president, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, i would like to thank parliament again for the intensive and efficient cooperation it has given us in the reworking of the financial regulation for the european budget. it was only thanks to the cooperation of all the institutions that the new financial regulation was adopted unanimously by the council on 25 june 2002. the new financial regulation is a fundamental part of the commission's reform and i am proud that we achieved this feat in 2002. i would like to thank in particular - and i would like to emphasize this again - mr van hulten and mr dell'alba. the latter is not here now, but i would like to mention it again at this point. one of the main objectives of the revision of the financial regulation was to simplify the financial regulation by incorporating the very detailed provisions into the implementing provisions. the commission will be able to adopt these implementing rules before the end of the year, so that they can enter into force at the same time as the new financial regulation on 1 january 2003. mr van hulten has done a very thorough job with the committee on budgetary control, and i thank you very much for that. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. firstly, several amendments in the report seek to include all the reports and information to be sent to the budgetary authority in an annex to the annual activity reports of the authorising officers. the commission is in favour of such streamlining of procedures. as regards the summary of the annual activity reports of the authorising officers, the report proposes that the obligation to provide such a summary to the discharge authority should apply not only to the commission but also to the other institutions. i share the intention behind it. the wording of the financial regulation does not allow us to impose such an obligation on other institutions. we believe that the other institutions should agree to such an undertaking. secondly, the report proposes changes to the financial actors mentioned in the financial regulation with two objectives: (a) the budgetary authority shall be informed when the authorising officers at a1 level and the accounting officer are replaced. (b) the posts of accounting officer and internal auditor should be externally contracted. we can see that the budgetary authority is informed of new appointments. however, we cannot follow the report's proposal. direct external publication would also be contrary to the statute. the statute expressly provides that vacancies must first be advertised within the institutions before they can be advertised externally. this means that direct external tendering would not be compatible with the staff regulations. thirdly, on the amendments concerning the financial irregularities panel, we can agree to the proposal that the panel should include an independent expert. however, we believe that the compulsory detection of irregularities would go too far even in minor cases. fourthly, on the directive on late payment, i note that parliament has again pointed out that the deadline for transposition has expired and that the institutions must now comply with the provisions on interest and payment deadlines, or at least should comply with them. fifthly, i can also agree to a number of amendments on accounting. in particular, the commission agrees with the clarification concerning the introduction of an integrated data processing system. this is in full accordance with the commission's proposals to date. as regards the requirement that a list of all persons with access rights to the electronic accounting system be drawn up and that a verification path be set up so that the nature and authorship of all changes made to the system are clearly apparent, i can inform you that both are already in place in the commission. we welcome the inclusion of this provision in the implementing rules, although i cannot at the moment say whether the accounting systems of the other institutions, apart from the commission, already meet these conditions. sixthly, in amendment no 17, you ask that the budgetary authority be informed of any waiver of claims over eur 100 000. the commission will also take this up. i would like to conclude by making a clarification on the last amendment in the report. it reads: 'the accounts for the financial year 2002 shall be drawn up and presented in accordance with the financial regulation of 1977, except for the obligation to submit them to the financial controller.' i would point out that the new financial regulation clarifies that there will be a transitional period for the clearance of accounts until the financial year 2005, that is to say that the clearance of accounts until 2005 will be carried out in accordance with the procedure laid down in the current financial regulation. given that the only member state to have so far largely adopted accrual accounting this more anglo-american accounting , namely the united kingdom, has required a transition period of more than seven years, the timetable for the commission remains extremely ambitious. i repeat my offer to the committee on budgetary control to inform you as soon as possible of the proposals which the commission has made here.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. what would a regulation like the eu financial regulation be without implementing provisions? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. why do i stress this so? because i think we are again providing an example here of how legislation is clearly not enough, but that it needs to be clarified. this does not contribute to legal clarity, simplification or clarity of european law. but perhaps this extensive law-making activity does contribute to the rule of law. i mean, the rules that apply apply. in this context, i ask the commissioner responsible to be straightforward and not to follow the example of the president of this commission, who simply calls existing legislation such as the stability pact stupid and then does not apply it. the budgetary regulation and its implementing provisions are not at all suited to such games, since the degree of confidence which citizens outside europe have in it depends to a considerable extent on it. this trust has been damaged by the commission's reckless and arrogant actions or omissions, which apparently include a failure to ensure that its accounting system is reliable and tamper-proof - an omission for which it has been called to account since taking office, despite repeated admonitions from the european court of auditors. this is also why it is so important that the accounting officer has a clear and independent position. the commission has unfortunately recklessly abolished the independent financial controller, and the accounting officer will become even more important. he or she must be able to obtain additional information without being bound by instructions, to suspend payments and to express his or her criticism in a relevant place without being removed from office and subject to disciplinary proceedings or similar proceedings. i therefore ask for my support for amendment no 33 by my group and also for the other two amendments by mr freddy blak, which also serve the purpose of legal clarity and transparency. the budgetary law in particular must not give us a great deal of latitude. i am not surprised that you, mr rapporteur, do not support amendment no 33. the arguments you put forward here are the same as those in the committee, but they are not made any more effective by constant repetition. any suspicion of arbitrariness and partisan decisions must be avoided here. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the budget for the year 2000 and to present a report on the implementation of the budget for the year 2000. i am very sorry that parliament has been pressed for time to adopt this regulation. i do not know why we did not even wait for the opinion of the european court of auditors on this. but perhaps the rapporteur in his wisdom can give me an answer to that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable member is mrs schreyer. if the commission's statements are to be believed, then the new financial regulation will usher in a new era of financial management in which we can solve the problems of the past. but that's yet to be seen. unfortunately, we can now see that the new era is beginning with a weakening of the european parliament's rights. the rules for implementing the new financial regulation would have been adopted in agreement with parliament under the existing rules. the commission is now legally no longer obliged to even listen to parliament. we welcome the fact that you are doing so, mrs schreyer, especially since these implementing rules do not apply only to the commission but are intended to apply in future to all the institutions of the union. i would like to take up a few points which we should ask the commission to reconsider, if not to improve. keyword accounting officer: according to the present proposal, the institutions must choose their accounting officers from among the civil service. candidates from outside will not be allowed. that is why we are actually building ourselves the possibility of even considering outside candidates. mrs. schreyer, you said the statute forbids it. the functional independence of the accounting officers. it is the basic prerequisite for the reliability and credibility of the figures which we have to present to the citizens as contributors to the european union. the text is silent on this point. why don't you give the accountant the right to sue for interference, like you did with the internal auditor? i am concerned about other points, for example the so-called expert panel on financial irregularities. i hope that this will not become a competitor to olaf or even a hindrance to it. the conflict of interest. the definition in the financial regulation is comprehensive and appropriate. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied in a uniform manner. finally, the rules on the waiver of claims in article 84 are applicable. this opens the door to waiver of recovery of claims. the european taxpayer will then have to pay for these decisions with additional contributions. the rapporteur, mr van hulten, should be thanked for the speed with which he has worked under such enormous time pressure.
president of the council. - mr president, i have been asked to make a statement on the preparations for the european council meeting in brussels on 24 and 25 october 2002. this meeting will play a central role in the further work of the danish presidency. as you know, the agenda will be dominated by the important subject of enlargement, and in this connection also kaliningrad, which has been of great interest to the european parliament. the outcome of the meeting will be of great importance for the achievement of the common objective of concluding enlargement negotiations with up to 10 countries. the european council must therefore take as many decisions as possible so that there is as little left to do in copenhagen as possible. what remains may be difficult enough. at the european council, the president of the convention will inform the european council of the progress of the convention's work and the president of the european parliament will also address the european council. and let me start with the last one. the meeting with the president of the european parliament has become a firm tradition, which i know the heads of state or government of the european council appreciate very much. in view of the current agenda, it is of course particularly interesting to hear the president's views on the issues to be discussed by the european council, namely enlargement and also kaliningrad, to which i shall return. it is very convenient that the discussion with the president of the european parliament should take place just before the working sessions on enlargement and kaliningrad. in addition to the contribution of the president of parliament, we naturally hope that the meeting will prove useful to the president of parliament and to parliament, including the exchange of information and ideas for use in further work. and now a little about the enlargement. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. the starting point will be the commission's progress reports for each candidate country and the commission's strategy paper for overall enlargement, presented on 9 october by commissioner günther verheugen, who is also present. on the basis of a comprehensive evaluation of the progress of each candidate country, the commission concludes that 10 countries will be able to meet all the criteria by the beginning of 2004 and, in this light, recommends that the accession negotiations be concluded as planned this year. the copenhagen european council will also discuss the candidate countries which are not expected to be able to conclude negotiations this year (bulgaria, romania and turkey) in order to prepare decisions on the further accession process of these countries. the commission will also be taking decisions on outstanding issues in the enlargement negotiations in connection with the financial package. the institutional issues were agreed at yesterday's general affairs council and as part of the financial package the european council will, inter alia, determine the total amount for enlargement, the participation of the candidate countries in the common agricultural policy, including their share of direct income support, and the total cohesion and structural funds support for the candidate countries. the european council also has to decide on issues related to the net position of the candidate countries in relation to the eu budget, and an agreement was reached on the basis for these calculations. the debate on these issues so far has shown that it will not be easy to reach agreement. the seville european council concluded that the eu's positions on the outstanding budgetary chapters should be presented to the candidate countries at the beginning of november. this means that the european council in brussels must decide on these issues if we are to respect the seville timetable. the danish presidency will insist on this and the meeting must continue until a solution is found. as i said, it is to be expected that it will be very difficult. it requires compromise on all sides, but a solution must be found. we must also discuss kaliningrad, and on this point too considerable progress was made at the meeting in luxembourg yesterday, from which mr verheugen and i have just come. the matter was discussed in seville. the commission was asked to study the possibilities of an efficient and flexible solution to the transit issue - a solution which would be in line with the eu acquis and which would be agreed with the candidate countries concerned. the commission presented its communication on 18 september. it has been discussed twice in the council and it has also been discussed here in parliament as recently as last week, on 15 october. the presidency, together with the commission, has held a number of discussions with russia and has consulted in particular lithuania, the most affected candidate country. in addition to the principles underlying the seville mandate, the eu has emphasised lithuania's sovereign right to control its borders and to refuse entry where appropriate. the council also stressed that a solution must not prevent or delay lithuania's full membership of schengen. the council has agreed to the provision of guarantees to lithuania in this respect and finally agrees that lithuania should be compensated for any additional costs which might result from a solution to the transit question. the russian side has pursued the right to visa-free transit by rail through lithuania. it is a solution which contains many problems of a technical, economic, legal and political nature. the eu has not, however, refused to explore the possibility and the presidency will continue to work towards a solution that satisfies all parties to the greatest extent possible and which can gain the support of the european council. the guidelines i have mentioned were followed at the general affairs council meeting in luxembourg yesterday. the consideration i mentioned of lithuania being able to join schengen at the same time as the other candidate countries if lithuania so wishes - and lithuania does - was agreed yesterday. this is the union's position and i believe that the 15 governments have prepared themselves as well as possible for the discussions to be held at the european council in brussels and also for the subsequent discussions with russia, which will be held under the presidency and which will culminate in the eu-russia summit in copenhagen in november. as regards the convention, the european council will, in accordance with the laeken declaration, hear a report from the president of the convention, mr valéry giscard d'estaing, on the progress of the work of the convention. it is an important ambition of the presidency to take the work of the convention forward. the convention has made a good start and has now entered the important analytical phase. the number of proposals is increasing, the sheets of paper are growing, and i think we have witnessed a very exciting debate on the future of europe both in and around the convention. it has been a pleasure to follow the great commitment of the convention members, not least those convention members who come here from parliament, who were armed to the teeth and who have shaped the debate very strongly. the convention has for the first time - and in full public view - created something as unusual as a genuine debate across european borders. it's not something we're supposed to do. the european debate is usually conducted by european politicians and their domestic audiences, not by audiences in other countries. but this is not the case with this debate on the future of europe - which i think is a good sign for the ambition to create a more democratic and popular european cooperation. as the report will show, we have a broad and ambitious agenda at the brussels summit. i hope and believe that all countries will now show the necessary willingness to compromise and contribute to the important decisions i have outlined here, and i will not conceal the fact that what remains are some very difficult nuts to crack, and this is of course economically. i would like to reiterate and emphasize that the european council looks forward to hearing the president of the european parliament, mr pat cox, and to having an exchange of views with him. the importance of parliament to the enlargement process is undeniable - parliament has said at a very early stage, first in the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, then in the plenary, what should be done almost unanimously. it has contributed to the momentum, to the impetus, which hopefully means that the enlargement process cannot be stopped at the last minute. and i would like to thank parliament warmly on behalf of the presidency for that. (applause from the centre)
president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, now that ireland has voted in favour of the treaty of nice, we have overcome the last political obstacles to ratification of the treaty and have paved the way for enlargement. i am glad that the irish voters have made the choice, and they have shown openness and a sense of responsibility. what is true of ireland is true of all of us. it is in the common interest to pursue the enlargement process without delay. the next european council in brussels is therefore of fundamental importance. the debate will focus on our recommendations to conclude negotiations with ten candidate countries by the end of the year. the date of accession of bulgaria and romania and the next stage of the application process for turkey will also be discussed. among other subjects, we shall deal with the kaliningrad question. we shall perhaps have the opportunity to review the international situation, especially how to continue the fight against terrorism in the light of the recent tragic events in bali and the philippines. we shall also hear the report of the president of the european convention and have the usual exchange of views with the president of parliament. the first item on the agenda will therefore be enlargement. i would like to reiterate the strong reasons which led us to recommend to the member states that they conclude the negotiations with ten countries positively. it is our historic and moral duty to share with our european neighbours the stability and prosperity we have achieved in half a century of integration. peace, stability, democracy and the rule of law are the essential ingredients for political stability. they have worked well in the past, and the recipe will work for future member states. enlargement will bring european governance and standards across the continent. we expect positive effects in a wide range of areas: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to all their activities, including the development of the internal market, the establishment of more efficient public administrations, stronger judicial systems, better protection of minorities, effective prevention of crime, especially international crime, stricter controls on illegal immigration, closer monitoring of products in circulation, especially food safety, and finally stricter standards for the protection of the environment. on the international scene, the union's growing size will increase its political capital. our trade, financial, environmental policies will have more weight; europe will be better able to defend human rights and work to reduce the gap between the north and the south of the world. if we can unite loyally and speak with one voice, we can make a difference on issues such as climate change and managing the impact of globalisation. but beyond that, the first group of ten new member states will bring enormous economic benefits to the union as a whole, to the union of the old and the new member states. the increase in population will strengthen the single market: the population will increase by some 75-77 million citizens, bringing the union's total to 453 million. to understand the meaning of this figure, consider that the total population of the nafta area which includes the united states, mexico and canada is about 400 million. some argue that if the population of the 10 candidate countries increases by 20%, the eu's overall gdp will only grow by 4 to 5%. this is not a negative figure, it is a figure that highlights the fact that we alone are realizing, albeit at a regional level, a process of democratic globalization; this is not a bad thing, because it means that there is a high potential for growth, given the characteristics of these countries. it should not be forgotten that the ten applicant countries are already growing at a faster rate than the 15 existing member states. on an annual basis, their growth in 2001 was 2.4 per cent compared with our 1.5 per cent. in 2000, it was 4.1 percent, compared with 3.4 percent in 2000. above all, the ten candidates will bring highly qualified human resources to the union. the enlargement countries have, it is true, 20 per cent more population and only 5 per cent more income, but they have 25 per cent of the science and engineering degrees. this is a resource that will strongly support increased development. these countries are therefore, for all these reasons, if interpreted intelligently, our new frontier. european companies will have new opportunities for expansion and development because there will be a great need for new technologies and because the new member states will offer a market for our goods and services. if this is the advantage of enlargement, we can now see the problems that remain. before i go into them, however, i would like to make a small general observation: we must be very careful not to jeopardise the success of enlargement by arguing over details, as is often the case when political decisions are being taken. the unification of europe must always take precedence over narrow national and sectoral interests. we must always keep the big picture in front of us and never forget the potentials i mentioned earlier. in recent years these ten countries have made enormous progress. the periodic reports which the commission has recently presented have fully recognised this and - i want to stress this - these have not been indulgent or optimistic analyses. the commission's confidence in the enlargement countries is based on sound, serious and analytical grounds. the progress made in the past shows that all 10 countries will be ready for accession at the beginning of 2004, including in those areas where it is obvious that work must be completed. however, although we are fully confident, the commission has undertaken to monitor the countries' latest preparations and progress even after accession. to this end we have prepared safeguard clauses for the internal market and for the justice and home affairs sector, which are the sectors our people fear most, in which they have the greatest distrust. these safeguard clauses will come into force if the commitments given are not respected in practice: it is a remote possibility, but it is always possible, and we must take it into account. as is well known, the central points of discussion between the heads of state and government will be financing issues, the last remaining but certainly not of minor importance. the broadest consensus is on net transfers. it is clear that there is unanimous agreement on two principles: first, at the time of accession, the 10 countries must not be in a position of net contributors; secondly, all expenditure commitments must be kept within the strict limits of the berlin agenda. we have adhered to these two principles, and so i think it will not be difficult to reach agreement on the exact amount in copenhagen. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote in the council. frankly, we can't offer our fellow citizens any less. under this financial commitment, cohesion countries existing countries will receive funds of eur 231 per capita in 2006, while citizens of the new member states will be entitled to eur 137 per capita. i don't think we can get any stronger divisions than this. finally, the problem of agricultural financing, which is well known. i am aware that some of the present member states have expressed reservations about the budgetary sustainability of these proposals and have asked for additional guarantees. it is legitimate to ask the question of the future financial assets of the union; in fact, we have to. the commission maintains its position: the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. for all the financial issues still outstanding, i hope that the european council in brussels will give the danish presidency and the commission a mandate to conclude the negotiations with a view to the final decision in copenhagen. that's why i'm asking for your support. however - and this is a final reminder - an important step we must take in this last phase of the enlargement process is that of information. the latest eurobarometer survey, two days ago, shows that half of the union's current citizens are in favour of enlargement, while a third are against it. the others have no opinion. these figures are quite comforting on the one hand, but they are also worrying on the other: in other words, 65% of those interviewed think that enlargement will lead to an increase in drug trafficking, international organised crime and unemployment, which is the exact opposite of what i think, seriously and on the basis of analysis, will happen in the future. why, then, is enlargement associated with these fears? the answer is found in the latest eurobarometer survey: only 21 per cent of the population think they are well informed about the subject, while 79 per cent think they are not. it is clear, therefore, that we must act on objective, serious, in-depth information. the group which claims to be not well informed, as the statistics say, is not necessarily opposed to enlargement but, more often than not, has an indifferent position. however, this is, for me, the worst prospect. we must convince the citizens that enlargement will be a solution and not a problem. this is why the commission has launched an information campaign aimed at both the current member states and the candidate countries. the success of enlargement will therefore depend on our ability to inform public opinion correctly, and in this respect too we cannot disappoint the expectations of millions of europeans. the future of our union depends on the enthusiasm, strength and intelligence we will put into the final efforts to complete this process. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the signal we received from luxembourg yesterday was strong and positive. the council accepted the commission's recommendations to conclude negotiations with ten countries. the council did this because the commission was able to demonstrate convincingly that our recommendations were not based on a political wish list. we were not trying to make a politically desirable scenario realistic, but we were trying to make what is realistic. the commission's statement that these 10 countries will complete their preparations by the date of accession is not a rough estimate but a sound forecast based on knowledge, experience and the actual state of preparation, which we fully support. i would stress that the commission has taken this decision unanimously and that all the commissioners responsible for the operation of the policies have made it clear that there are no longer any problems in their sphere of responsibility which cannot be solved by the time of accession. if we compare what has to be done in the next 12 to 15 or 18 months with what has already been done in the last five years - only then will we have a complete picture - it is very clear that we are not exaggerating our optimism when we say that the preparations will be such that we can tell our citizens that this enlargement is as well prepared as it has ever been. the council also adopted the commission's proposals on monitoring and safeguard clauses. this is a very important point. it is not a question of mistrust of the new members. we need a new instrument here because we have a completely new situation. the internal market and monetary union are now well developed and almost fully realised. we are dealing with countries that are in the process of transformation. we have never had the situation where we want to integrate 10 countries at once and a large part of them are still in a process of transformation. this can cause problems that no one can foresee. the commission therefore considers that a very broad safeguard clause is appropriate, which allows us to intervene wherever unforeseen or unforeseeable problems arise. we have a long way to go, that's for sure. but, as was clear yesterday, the political momentum is so strong that it will carry us to copenhagen and that it will also lead us to success in copenhagen. there is not a single member state which combines its demands and wishes, which are still in this process, with a veto threat. it is important to note that all 15 committed themselves yesterday to the objective of concluding the negotiations. i would therefore like to make two brief requests to the council in brussels. the least we need from the heads of state or government is an agreement which will allow us to deal properly with the candidate countries in the period between brussels and copenhagen on the remaining financial and agricultural questions. the commission does not think it possible to make compromises only in copenhagen, because that would put the candidate countries in a 'fries or die' position, and we must take our future new member states seriously in their democratic rights. the enlargement process cannot be dictated, but must be the result of a mutual agreement based on mutual trust. the discussion of the financial problems associated with enlargement is no longer essentially about the financial issues for 2004, 2005 and 2006, but is in fact already preparing the discussion of the next financial perspective for the period after 2006. we must understand this, but we must also say that the enlargement process must not be held hostage to positions which are to be discussed only in the context of the next financial perspective. and i also believe that we can agree that the process which began in berlin in 1999 of placing the european budget under the consolidation mandate and not simply letting it explode must of course be continued. i am pleased that france and germany in particular are making a special effort at the moment to reach an understanding on this fundamental question, also in bilateral contacts. i do not think that the responsibilities of germany and france in this matter are very different from those of the others, but it is quite certain that it has always been good for europe when these two countries have a common line on a large, important, forward-looking european project. i would be very pleased if we could complete this common line before the start of the council in brussels. i believe that everyone must take their share of responsibility and do their share of the work. the commission has already done its work in the main, but that does not mean that we can now lay down our hands - i am far from being unemployed. now it is important that everyone understands that this enlargement project is a political project. i have been in contact with a number of national parliaments in recent weeks and i would caution them that certain problems i have encountered there are also linked to a perceived lack of information. what president prodi said on the subject of information is crucial. i would like to make a final remark as an experience of the irish referendum: ireland has shown very clearly that we can only advance our european cause, that we can only win the approval of the citizens if we really fight for this europe, for our european cause, if we are really prepared to go to the people and tell them clearly and clearly why it is right and why it is necessary. it's not going to work if you think it's going to happen by itself, it's going to happen through the media. the political leaders of all the european institutions, the governments and parliaments of the member states, the economic, political and cultural elites of all our member states must now commit themselves to engaging in dialogue with the citizens. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one. but we must nevertheless point out that the european union is in a very serious situation. the prospects for the summit in brussels are not very rosy, from what i hear. i would like to make it very clear once again to our group that we always had a timetable for completing the negotiations by the end of this year, then signing the treaties in march or april and formalising accessions in 2004, so that the acceding countries can take part in the european elections in 2004. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. i agree that it's important that these two countries get along. but i think it is a serious political mistake - and our group does - to attach new conditions to the conclusion of the negotiations, to want first of all a new financial framework for the years after 2006, perhaps even before. i would like to point out - and mr böge, as a budget expert, has confirmed this to me - that the adjustment of the financial perspective and therefore the provision of the resources needed for enlargement between 2004 and 2006, in accordance with article 25 of the interinstitutional agreement, can only be decided on a proposal from the commission and by a qualified majority in the council and by an absolute majority of the members and three-fifths of the votes cast in the european parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have to say on behalf of our group that we consider it irresponsible if there is a delay in the negotiations and if they cannot be concluded by the end of this year. so it's a big political mistake that these new conditions are now emerging. we could have talked about this a lot sooner. it would be tragic if the applicant countries were to end up suffering from the fact that the european union has not yet reached an agreement. i fully agree with what commissioner verheugen said, namely that the applicant countries have done their duty in recent years. but we in the european union have not done what is necessary, through the fault of some of the member states. it would be a breach of confidence in the applicant countries if we did not reach a result in brussels now. i call on all the parties to reach agreement in brussels and to make it easier for the danish presidency to complete the negotiations by copenhagen. it was about informing the public. i can emphasize what mr prodi and mr verheugen have said on this. mr verheugen, it would be important for parliament to hear how the resources made available to the commission for information work are actually being used to better inform our people, who of course we must take along on this journey, about how we are using these resources. the kaliningrad question will also be discussed in brussels - mr haarder, the president of the council, has spoken of it. it is important for us, while we must solve the problems of transit for russia - there is no question that russia has a great interest in this - to ensure that lithuania does not get the impression that we are now deciding something over lithuania's head on the part of the european union, but that lithuania must be strengthened in its sense of sovereignty. the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the proposals put forward by the council. the schengen criteria must also be respected. on this basis, and also in terms of security, we naturally advise flexibility in order to find a solution with russia. but it is not just about access to the kaliningrad region. the great russia is behind this, of course. there are other problems at the borders. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the border between poland and ukraine, and whether it is not already in the process of being discussed in the council. the european parliament has been asked to vote on the report by mr giscard d'estaing. the timeframe is clear to our group and to our party, the european people's party and the european democrats - we have now confirmed this at our congress. we want the convention to be concluded by the end of june 2003, then a short intergovernmental conference so that, under the italian presidency, we can reach a treaty of rome or a constitution of rome, a fundamental treaty of the european union, by the end of 2003. we are therefore calling on all those involved to be ambitious so that we can meet this timetable and achieve the historic project of both enlargement and a constitution for europe within the time frame we have set. this is our common duty for a good future of our european continent. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. the historic process, the opportunity for peace and stability on our continent - words cannot be more impressive. i would like to see a little of this historical spirit and awareness of opportunity at the brussels summit, so that it does not degenerate into a carpet-dealing bazaar, because that is what is to be feared. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the impressive performance of the candidate countries will leave the council with no choice but to certify ten candidates ready for accession. however, the lack of solidarity and the reluctance to reform in the member states is becoming an increasing problem for living together in an enlarged union. it is therefore a matter of course that the applicant countries will in future finance the uk rebate in the european union, but they will not be able to do so themselves. this is unprecedented in the history of the european union. in the past, a discount for all was granted in the first year in netpayer situations. the proposal by the commission and the presidency to pay them one year more from the structural funds is welcomed by the eu-15. why would you do that? because of the lack of absorption capacity, the money ends up going back into the eu-15's coffers. this is not the solidarity that the union needs. the greens/efa group clearly rejects the continuation of the 'expansion of the savings banks'. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. reform is not only necessary because of enlargement, it is overdue in itself. it is absurd to put this off any longer. direct aid of this size without conditions has simply survived and is no longer feasible in an enlarged union. we must start the agricultural reform now and develop it together into a fair eu-25 approach for 2007. the maintenance of privileges must not become a new condition for enlargement. a word to the irish yes: the irish have said yes to the nice treaty, removing the biggest obstacle to enlargement. but the institutional reform of the european union is still pending. the treaty of nice did not really advance the eu. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the council. i therefore argue that the draft convention should be adopted in 2003. functionality is not a prerequisite, but it is a necessity for the enlarged union. president prodi has mentioned the lack of public support. yeah, why would i? the eu simply lacks transparency and democracy, and that must change! (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. after mrs maij-weggen has made it clear that the dutch christian democrats are no longer the problem, and you have made it clear that the liberals are no longer the problem, it seems that only the german social democrats and the federal government are in the process of creating special conditions as a springboard. i think we should make it clear that, for all the right or wrong reasons, we cannot create new conditions for the enlargement of the european union. this must be clarified and - as you know best, commissioner verheugen - what was not done during the negotiations on agenda 2000 cannot be done a quarter of a year before copenhagen. we'll have to do that at a later date. since we are going to be able to talk about the critical points of nice again after saturday, it is right that we make it clear that, for example, in the case of structural policy, majority decisions in the convention must be enforced so that we have better decision-making structures for the 2006 reform, so that we can then implement the necessary reforms at the right time. the commission can of course prepare the content of this debate. but here too we must do the schoolwork to get ahead in 2006. let me address kaliningrad again for a moment. i think these are some of the political questions that remain. we must take into account both lithuania's sovereignty and russia's sensitivities and make it clear that small countries cannot be victims of the negotiations of the big ones. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not overlooked. it is clear that there must be a solution here that is practical and meets the sensitivities of all, and i believe that on the basis of the commission's proposal and yesterday's decision by the council of ministers, there is a negotiating basis on which to proceed. i believe that the commission and the council are indeed doing their best in today's composition to reach a result in october. let me make one final comment. the information campaign will be of great importance both in the member states and in the candidate countries. i hope that it will be better organized in the candidate countries than it is at present in the member states of the european union, where in my country it is only a showcase for the ministers for europe of the länder, but has nothing to do with the actual information work. commissioner verheugen, perhaps we could have a discussion about how we can change this. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. the enlargement should not only bring peace, democracy and the rule of law, but it should also contribute to the growth of prosperity in the enlargement countries. finally, economic cooperation has also been a recipe for success for the european union, and this recipe for success should be extended so that we have not only stability in the sense of external peace but also stability in the sense of internal and social peace. the accession countries are still facing enormous economic uncertainties and we must let them know that we are aware of these difficulties. we have been able to identify with the delegations from the committee on economic and monetary affairs, for example, what progress has been made and what difficult progress has been made, for example in the field of competition policy or in the field of aid control. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we therefore very much appreciate the efforts made in the candidate countries. however, it is also clear that when they join, they must not only be functioning market economies but also actually be able to withstand competitive pressure. this needs some work. i will give just two examples: steel and shipbuilding. i would like to mention the energy problem only in passing, although it is equally important. the commission has therefore rightly introduced safeguard clauses. i think the applicant countries can handle this too, and we must see that these safeguard clauses are used in such a way that they do not hit one country or the other at random. i am confident that the reform process in the applicant countries will continue, and it must continue successfully, because it is not just the lack of information among the population in the european union that is at issue, but also the lack of information in the applicant countries. it would be good if we could help to solve this problem.
- mr president, i have to go. the process of enlargement of the european union by ten countries is entering its final, decisive phase. our group has always supported and helped to shape it, both actively and critically. there are real fears that this will undermine the hopes for social improvement and economic recovery that have been nurtured over the years with enlargement. the powerful political rhetoric about overcoming the division of europe and the elimination of the communist legacy, which is heard here in parliament time and again, obscures a different view of europe's post-war history and is thus overwhelming in the face of the many problems in the central and eastern european states. people are barely involved in the process. the process was essentially administrative and technical and took place from brussels as an adaptation of the common acquis. the governments of the candidate countries may have had too little to say at times, and the parliaments were not prepared to give their critical opinions and consent. the acquis to be adopted and implemented by each country amounts to a paper mountain of over 80,000 pages, which officials can hardly see. how can the citizens oversee him? in these circumstances, the debate on the future of europe, which has often been mentioned, could not and would not really take off in the fifteen or in the applicant countries. it is no secret that the frustration of the rural population is particularly deep. anyone who studies the differences in enlargement from previous accessions cannot fail to notice that parity was not established until 2003. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i say it clearly and emphatically: european integration will not work well with a heated anti-communism which would inevitably involve many of the leading politicians elected by the peoples of the applicant countries. i could also name some of my good friends in this circle. in view of the precarious information deficits, it seems necessary to ask, above all, how the european union works in the daily lives of citizens and how we should discuss it with them. we must talk less about transparency and democracy and do more for transparency and democracy. that is the challenge we face!
president of the council. - mr president, when i was asked to make a statement on this subject, we did not know how sadly topical it would be. we are discussing this matter today in the shadow of the horrific terrorist attack in bali on 12 october, which claimed the lives of over 200 people. it was a complete and utter disaster. it also stressed that the threat of terrorism must continue to be taken very seriously. we must not be too hard on ourselves - the fight against terrorism will be a very long and tough one. the last time i had the honour of speaking to parliament on terrorism was on 11 september this year, when we commemorated together the anniversary of the terrorist attack on the united states. at the time, i emphasized that the united states had been the target of the terrorist attack because of its strength, its insistence on western democracy, on freedom and tolerance, but that it might as well have been us who had been hit. the unexpected terrorist attack in bali has shown that no one is a peaceful saint. the terrorists have twisted the many benefits of globalization to their inhuman and reckless games. the fight against terrorism is a global struggle, in which close cooperation between the eu and the us is an indispensable prerequisite for success. we have seen that if the terrorists intended to divide the western democracies, they have achieved the opposite. it must be a clue for all of us in the future. this is why the eu's external role in the fight against terrorism is a very important element. what has the eu done since 11 september 2001 and has it been effective? the eu reacted politically very quickly and decisively after the disaster last year. first, a strong statement by eu heads of state or government making it clear that the eu would do everything to ensure that those responsible were held to account and punished. the eu also stressed that the us government and the american people could count on the eu's full solidarity and cooperation in the continuing fight against terrorism. we're gonna have to stick with that. the eu did not stop at words. on 21 september, the heads of state or government adopted the action plan which became the backbone of the eu's action. the list of results is quite impressive. a key item on this list was the strengthening of police and judicial cooperation. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union. these are areas where the eu has made a quantum leap forward by rapidly adopting the necessary legislation. a decision on the freezing of assets and evidence was also agreed. it will lay down rules on the recognition and enforcement in the member states of freezing orders issued by a judicial authority of another member state. this too will make it more difficult to be a terrorist in the member states. in addition, negotiations have been launched with the united states on a cooperation agreement on extradition and mutual legal assistance in criminal matters and an agreement between europol and the united states on the exchange of personal data is expected to be in place by the end of the year. in sum, the eu has delivered what could be expected - and more. another key point is the effective stopping of the financing of terrorism. the necessary legal acts to implement security council resolution 1373 were adopted in december 2001. this is an important stop to the financing of terrorist acts, which is the lifeline without which international terrorism cannot exist. in addition, a number of important measures have been taken in the field of aviation safety. on the whole, we have reason to be satisfied and proud of the way in which the fight against terrorism has been handled. it has become harder to be a terrorist and to carry out terrorist acts in the member states and it has become safer and more secure for our citizens. can we rule out the possibility of terrorist attacks in the future? no, we cannot, but for the same reason we must continue the struggle with renewed energy. this applies both to the continued hunt for terrorists wherever they are and to targeted assistance to eliminate the underlying causes that help to feed terrorism. have we jeopardized the legal security of the citizens? for us politicians, it's a fundamental political dilemma: is it acceptable to limit our freedom to protect ourselves from terrorism? are we creating a big brother society under the guise of protecting our freedom and security? where do we draw the line? i think the famous liberal philosopher, karl popper, has given us a guide when he says, "over intolerance, tolerance must exhibit intolerance, or tolerance will be destroyed by intolerance". this is also the line i feel is being taken in parliament's motion for a resolution, which stresses the need to be firm in preventing terrorists from profiting from their crimes. the presidency fully agrees with the emphasis on the principle of non-reward contained in the motion for a resolution. i think we've found the right balance. at the same time, the presidency also considers that there is no need for further substantial counter-terrorism measures within the eu at present. the danish presidency attaches the highest priority to the fight against terrorism. the fight against terrorism has been directed in particular at the external role of the eu. at the same time, we will of course continue to work on the implementation of internal measures. the danish presidency aims to make progress in mainstreaming the fight against terrorism in all aspects of eu foreign policy. in addition to strengthening the eu's international role through a greater emphasis on the fight against terrorism in the eu's foreign policy and systematic assessment of third countries' efforts to combat terrorism, the ambition is for the eu to be a flagbearer in the un and other international fora. the maintenance of the international anti-terrorist coalition and cooperation with the united states is a necessary aspect. other aspects include the conclusion of a general convention against terrorism and the universal implementation of the 12 existing international conventions on combating specific acts of terrorism. the council conclusions of 22 july 2002 on the external action of the union against terrorism opened a new chapter in the fight against terrorism. in future, the eu will take greater account of the efforts of third countries in their agreements with third countries to combat terrorism and will conduct a more targeted and, if necessary, more intensive political dialogue with third countries. it was also decided to identify specific measures to assist third countries in meeting their obligations under security council resolution 1373 and to concentrate on a small number of countries with a view to launching a pilot project in cooperation with the un counter-terrorism committee. it must be directed in particular at those countries which have the political will but not the ability to comply with un resolutions. in the latter areas in particular, it is hoped that concrete results will be achieved during the danish presidency by the launching of one or two pilot projects. however, a precise and comprehensive threat assessment is a prerequisite for reassessing the content of contractual relations with third countries, strengthening political dialogue if necessary and assessing possible assistance to third countries. it has therefore also been a major priority for the presidency to draw up the necessary analysis of individual countries and regions. that work is progressing well. we expect the necessary analytical basis to be provided shortly. we must send our counterparts in third countries the message that their handling of counterterrorism will have a significant impact on their relations with the eu. i am therefore also pleased that this idea is reflected in the motion for a resolution. the eu can certainly be known for its actions in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks of september 11. we have put our own house in order in accordance with the un resolutions and we have done so in a way that takes account of the legal certainty of the citizens. it is now time to look outwards and play the international role that is expected of us. we must stick to the anti-terrorist coalition and to close cooperation with our closest partners, not least the united states. then we can hope for success. i therefore hope that parliament will continue to support the line which is being taken here and i would like to thank the two commissioners for their cooperation in this field. (applause from the centre)
the commission is aware of the fact that the indonesian government has been involved in a number of terrorist attacks, including the bombing of the indonesian embassy in jakarta, the bombing of the embassy in jakarta, the bombing of the embassy in jakarta, the bombing of the embassy in jakarta, the bombing of the embassy in jakarta, the bombing of the embassy in jakarta, the bombing of the embassy in jakarta, the bombing of the embassy in jakarta, the bombing of the embassy in jakarta, the bombing of the embassy in jakarta, the bombing of the embassy in jakarta, the bombing of the embassy in jakarta, the bombing of the embassy in jakarta, the bombing of the embassy in jakarta, the bombing of the embassy in jakarta, the bombing of the embassy in jakarta, and the bombing of the embassy in jakarta. this can only strengthen our conviction that this terrorism must be fought relentlessly, with all the means at our disposal and in a global perspective. the union is at the forefront of this struggle, as minister haarder has very eloquently shown. our response to terrorism is based on the desire to provide the european union and the member states with the means to cooperate more effectively, on the basis of full respect for our democratic principles, with a view to strengthening the protection of fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. it should also be noted that the european union's reaction to the september 11 attacks was so rapid largely because of the synergy created between our institutions: parliament, the commission and the council. this same synergy has also been manifested in the implementation of an inter-pillar approach that can respond to the scale of the challenge posed by terrorism, whether international terrorism or terrorism within each of our member states. i shall not go into the fruits already produced by the implementation of the strategy decided on a year ago. i would point out, however, that following the commission's proposals, the union has adopted a common definition of terrorism, harmonised the sanctions applicable to terrorist acts and created a european arrest warrant. these tools are useful for the negotiation of the global convention against terrorism which is under way within the united nations. as regards police cooperation, important steps have been taken to strengthen operational cooperation between national counter-terrorism services and europol. this operational cooperation is sometimes not very visible, but it exists and has improved a lot in the last year. the commission can only welcome the efforts made to improve europol's analytical capabilities, especially with regard to terrorist threat assessment, and in particular the concrete steps taken to increase the flow of information to europol, including the exchange between police and intelligence services of the member states, and to ensure that this cooperation and analytical tool is used more and better. the commission, acting on the initiative of the european parliament, has proposed to the council that the community budget should finance certain activities to provide europol with the additional resources needed to strengthen and coordinate the action of the member states in the fight against terrorism. as regards the internal fight against terrorist financing, i note that work is continuing on the development of instruments to facilitate the freezing of assets and the blocking of funds of terrorist organisations, and also on mutual recognition which will allow the execution of orders to freeze assets issued by a judicial authority of a member state in another member state. in 2003, the commission will undertake an evaluation of the mechanisms adopted against financial crime and, in parallel, will present a proposal on the freezing and confiscation of funds of entities controlled by persons involved in the financing of terrorist activities, in order to ensure that legitimate activities cannot be used to finance terrorism. the protection of our external borders has also been the subject of intensive work and of first innovative proposals, which some consider bold but which i believe are well suited to taking stock of the many challenges to which the union must prepare itself in order to preserve its internal stability and security. on the external front, and without going into the details of our actions, which commissioner patten will discuss, cooperation with the united states deserves special mention. the strategic cooperation agreement between europol and the united states, which allows for the exchange of strategic information and liaison officers, is a good example of such cooperation. the commission is currently working on extending this cooperation to the police level through cooperation at the judicial level within eurojust. negotiated agreements, whether on the exchange of personal data, extradition or mutual assistance, will also play a key role. the commission welcomes the fact that the mandates issued by the council require that these future cooperation agreements guarantee full respect for our values and legal principles. but let us remind you again, if necessary, that what is at stake in the fight against terrorism is not only the protection of our principles, but above all the protection of our fellow citizens and the guarantee that solidarity can be expressed when disaster strikes. i would also remind you that the commission proposed last week that all victims of crime and terrorism in the european union should be able to receive compensation for the personal injury and loss they have suffered and that a minimum standard should be set for this compensation. solidarity and prevention are also at the heart of very concrete initiatives in the field of aviation safety and civil protection to improve coordination and cooperation between member states, including on public health issues and the protection of public facilities that are essential to our collective life, such as water supply systems or power and nuclear plants. for the first time, a european-wide civil protection exercise will simulate the consequences of a terrorist attack involving radiological and chemical materials on 27 and 28 october, in order to test the new monitoring and information centre set up by the commission. all these efforts must not stop there and they will not stop there. the prevention and fight against terrorism require more than ever the strengthening of the union as an area of freedom, security and justice. this is one of the major challenges of our work in the convention on the future of europe. and the commission will, in this context, make proposals for institutional reform so that the union has all the means necessary to deal diligently and effectively with the challenges of today and especially with those of the future. (applause) i would like to thank
commission. – mr president, i welcome the chance to contribute to this debate. as both the president-in-office and my friend and colleague, mr vitorino, have said, recent events in indonesia show clearly that the threat to the international community from terrorist attacks is still very real – despite the enormous amount of work we have undertaken in the last year in an effort to counter that threat. our sympathy and condolences go out to all those who suffered bereavement and horrendous injury in bali. we think in particular of our friends in australia and promise them that we will be exploring ways in which we can work closely with them to confront terrorism in all its manifestations. we will shortly be sending a high-level troika to indonesia to discuss the contribution we can make to this campaign. that troika will be going on to australia to ensure that we can involve ourselves as fully as possible, working in cooperation with the australians as well. we in the european union have been at the forefront of the international effort to combat terrorism. our actions in the immediate aftermath of 11 september demonstrate a point i have made in the context of the debate on the effectiveness of the european union's foreign and security policy: when the political will is there, we can take effective action regardless of the institutional architecture. within days of the attack on america, a series of concrete measures was tabled by the european commission. this led to a plan of action adopted, as has been said, by a special european council on 21 september. a week later the united nations security council adopted resolution 1373 – a truly landmark resolution setting out for the first time a clear set of actions which all member states must follow to combat terrorism. and i say 'must' advisedly. it is a resolution adopted under chapter vii of the un charter, which means that it is mandatory. it is a mark of the strength of international outrage following the 11 september attacks that such a resolution could be adopted with universal support. the european union's action plan is not cast in stone. we have adapted it to reflect new realities, including the adoption of resolution 1373. we have also prepared a 'road map' setting out the means of implementing the action plan. we have taken practical steps at union level to outlaw terrorist organisations and cut off their funding, as previous speakers have said. my colleague has just outlined the significant steps taken on police and judicial cooperation, border security and other internal questions. but all such measures to combat terrorism can only be truly effective if they are applied everywhere – if there are no hiding places left for terrorists and their sources of funding dry up. the new challenge now before us is, therefore, to help those countries which cannot – for reasons of institutional weakness, lack of expertise or lack of financial resources – fully implement resolution 1373 themselves. here the european union clearly has a crucial role to play. much of the work which needs to be done is in areas where the european union has built up an enormous amount of expertise through its programmes such as phare, tacis, meda and cards. i am thinking here of the work we are already doing, helping our partner countries establish effective law enforcement institutions, improve border management and fight money-laundering. in addition to the work under way, the european council conclusions of 22 july asked us to consider what more we could do. we have just agreed a strategy, endorsed by the council at coreper on 3 october, of identifying pilot countries where we judge there is a clear need for help and we feel the commission has a comparative advantage. we are looking at the possibilities for action in countries of high importance in the fight against terrorism: in central asia, south and south-east asia and the gulf. we hope to send missions to some of these countries very soon to work up concrete projects, notably in the area of terrorist financing. we have also incorporated the fight against terrorism into all aspects of our external relations. we are systematically evaluating our relationships with third countries in the light of the support those countries might give to terrorism. in this context, we are examining where counter-terrorism cooperation elements can be added to, or form part of new agreements, as has been the case in our association agreements with lebanon, algeria and chile. however, it is worth remembering that our external action goes wider than political dialogue. the european union is a massive provider of development assistance. we provide about 55% of total international assistance and as much as two thirds of all grant aid. this is an often forgotten contribution to international security in its widest sense. poverty and environmental degradation do not cause or justify terrorism. nor are the poor more wicked than anyone else. but just as poor people are the major victims of crime in rich societies, so political instability and violence are more prevalent in the poorest countries. nowhere is this clearer than in failed or failing states. if we are to deny al-qaeda and other terrorist networks the territory from which to plan future atrocities, we must do all we can to bolster weak or failing states. our action in afghanistan is a case in point. the european union is the main donor helping to rebuild this shattered country. the community alone has pledged over eur 1 billion from the budget over the next five years, involving a substantial contribution to the operating costs of the new government, including salaries for police, nurses, doctors, teachers and civil servants. this is what we have done so far in the fight against terrorism. but i want to close with the thought that we can take a wide or a narrow view of counter-terrorist action. the narrow view focuses exclusively on terrorists and terrorist acts, on tracking down the former and preventing or punishing the latter. but there is a wider view too: our actions must be seen in the context of our unswerving support for democracy, human rights and the rule of law. we have a wide range of instruments at our disposal to tackle the root causes of terrorism, both in terms of poverty and economic development, and of institution building and the rule of law. it is here that our contribution to the fight against terrorism will have the most impact. the fight against terrorism is not like a conventional military campaign. it is unlikely to have a beginning, a middle and a glorious end, with surrender documents and peace treaties. it will go on and on, in many different shapes and forms, a few thousand terrorists against the whole of humanity. earlier the president-in-office quoted from karl popper's the open society and its enemies. i suspect that, for our generation, it was almost as important a document in shaping our attitudes as any by the great political philosophers. when karl popper wrote the words quoted, he was referring to the enemy of totalitarianism – a much clearer enemy. in response to that, drawing on other political philosophers like burke, he argued that, to some extent, liberty had to be limited in order to be maintained. we face a different problem today. the ability to deliver terrorist assaults on free societies is much easier in open societies. the only way to make terrorism absolutely impossible is by a sort of global orwellianism, which would itself provoke from liberals, like the president-in-office and myself, the sort of assault others might regard as terrorist. we have a real paradox here. that is why it is so important that open societies and liberal democracies, without losing their values, work together comprehensively, cooperatively and intelligently. to prosecute the campaign against terrorism will require international cooperation of unprecedented breadth and depth: political cooperation, economic cooperation and security cooperation. the european union must play its part in those efforts – vigorously, generously and creatively – a key partner, i hope, in a well-planned and resolutely pursued campaign of multilateral engagement. (applause)
, chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. - mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, commissioners, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to express my protest here. these resolutions, to which the groups have now tabled amendments, were prepared by two committees. i do not think it is right that the member of the other committee should not also be at the top of the list of speakers. i would ask that the list of speakers be changed so that my colleague can speak after me and then the group spokesmen can follow. i also believe that none of the other groups have any objection to this. the issue of terrorism is being dealt with symbolically by these two committees. the fact that we have put forward a joint work as the basis for the requests of the political groups makes it clear that this is a completely new matter, namely that internal and external security must act together to combat the cancer of terrorism. we cannot continue to use the traditional methods of police and internal repression, nor can we continue to use the traditional military methods to deal with this situation. we need a new definition of security policy, a new definition which makes it clear that we are dealing with a transnational problem. the enemy is no longer behind a defined border, but within our borders. he is usually within the boundaries that protect him, because he is preparing for his action in another country, that is, the borders no longer separate us from the enemy, but protect him. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. it is clear, however, that cooperation in all areas of the military, internal security, security and intelligence services is necessary to gain knowledge of how to combat terrorism. it cannot be that citizens within our states are dying because nation states are not willing to share information. i think that after all the important measures that were taken after 9/11, only a part of what was discussed at that time has been implemented. the terrible events in bali have shown once again - and mr patten has made this point very clearly - how such events will continue to spread. however, it must be clear that they can only be successfully combated if we respect the rule of law and international law. we cannot respond by breaking the law ourselves. we must be able to guarantee the rule of law and international law at the same time and be able to act. that is why we have this complicated situation, which is linked to the united nations and the role of the security council. the security council must of course be the first and foremost to carry out its function by getting on this track in the field of foreign policy, but it cannot be the only way! i think it is good that we are talking about a general convention against terrorism. i also think it should be made clear that neither religion nor poverty nor any other reason can justify the killing of civilians by terrorists. there is no excuse, whatever it is, for terrorism! (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. i would like to say that, whatever the conference of presidents has decided, the rules of procedure should indeed be respected. you said the writers come first. the authors are the two authors of the committees. it then says: 'these reports are replaced by the amendments tabled by this or that person.' that is the normal procedure for amendments. the two authors are sitting here. maybe they were wrong! perhaps the bureau, and in particular the officials on the bureau, are flexible enough to admit such an error so that we can really come to new shores and not, with the lack of flexibility, also express our inability to make policy.
- madam president, commissioner, and my dear former colleague, mr haarder, president-in-office of the council! i think that today, when we talk about terrorism again and we talk about fighting terrorism, we all agree that terrorism must be fought, and we all agree that it can only be fought on an international level, because terrorism is now also an international problem. but if we want to fight international terrorism, then of course we have to be critical of ourselves. as rapporteur for the budget from the committee on the internal affairs, on which we have previously sat together, mr president-in-office, i note that we are dealing with petty disputes. we want to fight terrorism, and for that we need a european police authority, europol, and for that we need a successful authority, such as eurojust. but i now realize, after we have already made available €2.8 million in the european parliament for eurojust, for example, that this money cannot be spent because our european authorities cannot function for national, narrow-minded reasons. if the national police authorities are not prepared to cooperate with europol, if the national justice ministries are not prepared to support eurojust, we will continue to make beautiful speeches on sundays about the importance of fighting terrorism, but we will not succeed because we have to act preventively! in order to be able to act preventively, we also need functioning authorities, and we can only do this if the national states, the 15 member states of the european union, finally make it possible for our authorities, such as europol and eurojust, to be able to act. i would therefore ask you, mr haarder, and also our commissioner vitorino, to make this point clear to the national states in the council again and again, otherwise we shall not succeed.
- madam president! - what is it? we shall probably hear again in the next debate on echelon criticism of the allegedly over-functioning interception system and thus of the united states. but at the same time i see a generally positive attitude and a positive voting attitude towards the anti-terrorism legislation. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the community institutions and bodies. this qualitative and quantitative expansion of eu competences is accompanied by a redefinition of fundamental rights, and this means above all more intervention by the modern bourgeois state and fewer rights of defence, for whomsoever the accused. the most obvious way to see that the fight against terrorism has little to do with fighting terrorism is to take any definition of terrorism at face value and to make the erosion of fundamental rights in the eu a priority.
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to limit myself to a few remarks on the commission. the echelon committee submitted its final report a year ago. the work was also praised several times. but even during our work at the time, it became clear that the commission had treated the matter like the famous three monkeys who, according to the buddhist belief, are supposed to report on people at the koshin festival, under the motto "hear nothing, see nothing and say nothing". after a year, you could almost add, "not much to do either". the commission has not yet implemented very much of the deficits and orders described in the report. the commission is aware of our request to the commission in paragraphs 27 to 44 of the report. the question that remains is: what have you done to inform our citizens and businesses about the dangers of echelon? what have you done to systematically encrypt e-mails within the commission? and what has been done to train commission staff in new technologies and encryption? it is not enough to introduce new techniques, but staff must also be trained. their data protection policies, which are very important and very far-reaching, are of only limited interest. the question is also: what has happened within the commission? you said you made a decision. i cannot see, however, that the commission has now produced the security analysis we are asking for, which includes a complete classification of persons and documents. you've made that pretty clear. my question is, who is responsible for this? i remember very well the speech by mr perkins which you sent us back then. he was head of the commission's cipher service. the commission has not yet received any information on the technical state of play of the encryption devices, but it has not yet received any information on the general safety standards in the commission. it is not a question of the commission's being able to take action, but of the commission's being able to take action. or, commissioner, are you or one of the directorates-general responsible for ensuring that documents are classified throughout, that you intervene in personnel matters and classify people in order to ensure security in the commission? every national institution now has a secret security officer who carries out these very tasks. is there any such person in your commission now who is also sufficiently aware of the potential for attacks by the echelon system? i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i'm afraid i almost did, because you didn't say anything about that. we shall therefore be helping you to get back on track with a new resolution, and if, commissioner, there is still as little action as before and if the implementation of our points is still virtually ignored, then we will have to agree on the next discharge to be given to the commission. our order for you will be on the table shortly. i beg you to act! (applause from the centre)
- madam president! - what is it? it is good that this debate is taking place today. the echelon committee has put forward recommendations and demands after a year of work. it is only good parliamentary control if we ask after a year what has become of it. let me make a preliminary remark. a few days after the debate we had last year, the terrible attacks in the united states of america took place on 11 september. there have been two reactions to this. some said that these listening devices were useless and had to be removed, others wanted to make the secret services and their activities available to the public. both reactions are wrong! it was the belief of the majority of this house that strategic telecommunications surveillance, if legally secured and properly controlled, can be a useful tool for intelligence services. the 11 september attacks do not change our demands that there be a clear legal basis, that there be parliamentary control and that the provisions of the european convention on human rights be respected. i would like to draw out from the range of our demands essentially those aspects for which the commission is responsible - nothing in the field of foreign policy, nothing in the international field. the commission has taken a number of steps in the field of information security, as commissioner liikanen has said. if you look at this detail, you will see that these are actions that would have been necessary anyway because of e-commerce and the promotion of the it industry. the european parliament had specific demands which, at least in my view, mr commissioner, were not met in full. one, we wanted the encryption software to be promoted on an open source basis, so that you know for sure what the software does. we wanted the commission to help spread open source software so that we could be sure that there are no backdoors built into the networks. the commission is doing too little. i am sorry to say that neither the commission nor the european parliament uses open source software. as regards the protection of confidential information in the commission, which we have also dealt with, mr liikanen said that a number of things have changed. that's good too. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. it would be good, commissioner, if the commission could offer some of the members of this committee from that time to see for themselves the present state of security in the commission. i understand that you cannot give details in a public debate, but it would be helpful for us to know a little more about what actually happened. (applause from the centre)
the council. - the presidency welcomes the peaceful conduct of the parliamentary elections in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia on 15 september. at its meeting on 21 october the council welcomed the agreement reached on the new government in skopje. the council encouraged this new government to put the full implementation of the framework agreement and the stabilisation and association process at the top of its agenda and stressed that it looked forward to close and fruitful cooperation. the union will continue to be strongly engaged in macedonia and will actively support a reform-friendly government. the council also looks forward to the planned census being conducted in accordance with international standards. the stabilisation and association agreement has not entered into force as it has not yet been ratified. so far, an interim agreement on trade aspects has been concluded and entered into force over a year ago. the european community has allocated eur 130.5 million to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia under a multiannual programme for the years 2002-2004 to help it prepare to meet its obligations under the interim agreement and the stabilisation and association agreement. the issue of visa requirements for macedonian citizens was discussed at the latest meeting of the eu-macedonia cooperation council, held on 1-2 july this year, and on that occasion the commission reminded the macedonian authorities that they must take a number of concrete measures before the eu could consider lifting the visa requirement. the member states and the commission shall closely monitor the progress made by the authorities of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia towards meeting those criteria.
- mr president, i have to go. mr president-in-office, thank you for that very specific and very good answer and for the great expertise with which we appreciate you in dealing with these matters. i would just like to ask a quick supplementary question. it's a delicate one, though, i'll give you that. you have also spoken once of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. we see that the term yugoslavia has actually disappeared in the former yugoslavia, in the rest of yugoslavia, and is to be replaced by serbia-montenegro. the word yugoslavia would then only be in the name of the state of macedonia. i would like to ask you whether a diplomatic solution to the name problem cannot be found in the long term, because it is already a burden for this country, which may not be existential, but is psychologically very deep.
the council. - the agenda for the eu-russia summit in copenhagen on 12 november has not yet been set. i can only repeat that the council has not received any information on this abduction, but as i said earlier, the council is aware that many abductions have taken place and, like parliament, it has deplored this repeatedly. unfortunately, the situation is that mr dupuis is probably right when he says that, but the council has not yet been informed of that.
- mr president, i have to go. i would like to ask a question: we have often discussed with commissioner nielson here the possibility of a visit by commissioner nielson to chechnya to study the humanitarian situation there in greater detail, and we as a parliament want to go to chechnya too. could you not put on the agenda of this eu-russia summit that the european institutions should also take stock of the situation in chechnya? perhaps you could also speak to commissioner nielson about this. as long as denmark holds the presidency of the council, you can do so in his mother tongue. but regardless, it would be important to have an official visit here.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i thank the rapporteur. the compromise reached in the committee is, in our view, a major step towards greater consumer protection. finally, there is legal certainty in other matters as well, and not just in the voluntary commitments of airlines. the scheme is also extended to cover major delays and cancellations of flights. i've been the victim of cancellations at the old sabena. i am sure that other colleagues have had similar experiences with other airlines. we are also doubling the current level of compensation, which is now more differentiated and divided into three stages. the most important point to be discussed is the level of compensation. the aim of the regulation cannot be to abolish the practice of overbooking but to make it more appropriate and consumer-oriented. of course, overbooking can also be abolished, as the low-cost carriers do, if on the other hand the rebooking of flights would be cancelled and a flight would be automatically cancelled if it was not booked. but that's not consumer-friendly or environmentally sustainable. consumers need flexibility in their travel plans and, from an environmental point of view, half-empty airplanes are not practical. the economic argument is even more obvious. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the overbooking system is not abolished. in our view, we can support the compromise reached in the committee on the level of compensation also because it is important for consumers to have this improved and binding regulation as soon as possible and not have to wait for years for it because the legislation, as so often happens, is left to the council. from the consumer point of view, my group will vote against part of amendment no 29 because we consider it inappropriate to compensate for cancellations of flights only 48 hours before departure. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we also believe that the inclusion of package holidays in the commission proposal is not necessary because they are covered by the package travel directive. it is a strong vote for the consumer that the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism has called for the introduction of a ranking of airline user-friendliness. the us-style ranking system can help to increase quality competition between airlines for the most consumer-friendly overall service. i hope that this proposal will be accepted in the plenary. in view of the present situation, the report represents a strong step towards greater consumer friendliness. some consumer dreams are still flying, but they are overbooked. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, let me confirm that the majority of the epp-ed group naturally supports the commissioner's proposal, albeit with the substantial improvements proposed by mr lisi. the proposal is a two-stage process. the commission is also proposing that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers. it is true that in america the principle of voluntary service has been well used. but if there aren't enough volunteers, and everyone wants to go home or to a business meeting, and someone doesn't get promoted, then there must be a legal claim for that passenger. because he's booked a flight, he's got an o.k. on his ticket, and then he must have a claim to be promoted. if the airline overbooked out of economic interest, because it knows there are many no shows, then if it can't meet the booking guarantee, it has to pay for it. it's that simple. because the passenger is sure that he will go if he has an o.k. on his ticket, and if he does not, the airline has to pay. commissioner, you were a little harsh about the amount of payments. my colleague, mrs foster, with whom i do not always agree, has made a very good point. air fares have fallen in recent years, and so the argument that we should set the compensation very high to take account of the cost increases in recent years is of course not quite right, because there have been reductions in air fares. most of us are familiar with the elaborate system of special fares, which allows you to fly safely and comfortably at fares lower than the prescribed ones. so please understand that we have reduced the compensation to a level that we consider economically fair. we believe that if you pay too much compensation to passengers who are not carried, the airlines will pass this cost on to all passengers, and then there will be a higher general price level, which affects more people than not being carried. i say to my colleague from the liberal group - we are usually on the same page, but not today - we must set the compensation at a flat rate for two reasons. first, the damage of not being promoted is always the same, whether you have paid 150, 500 or more euros for your ticket. he's guaranteed to get on the plane, and he's gonna get left behind. it doesn't matter what the ticket was worth. he's been breached of trust, and more than that. i therefore believe that even low-cost carriers - who have no problem with overbooking, since they do not take more passengers than they have booked - must compensate the passenger when they cancel a flight for economic reasons, and they obviously do this more often. we must have uniform rates to make it easier for the poor airport workers to do their jobs. because we want compensation to be paid at the gate when a passenger is denied boarding or a flight is cancelled. you really can't ask the poor flight attendant to calculate thousands of prizes and have people wait until she has calculated the individual compensations. so i think our proposal is quite reasonable. i would like to make a few comments on the amendments tabled by the committee on the rules of procedure, the verification of credentials and immunities. it states that the regulation does not apply to passengers travelling on a reduced fare which is not directly or indirectly available to the public. we are concerned that this formulation is a very gray formulation. we should be quite clear that even a passenger who flies at a reduced price is entitled to full compensation. i think it's important that you see it that way. commissioner, i have one more question to ask you. mr lisi has made a very good proposal on article 13, namely that member states must ensure that, if an airline has to pay and is not factually responsible for the delay or cancellation, it can have recourse to those responsible, whether it be air traffic control systems or other systems, including governmental systems. can you assure us that in the interests of fair burden sharing - if we give the airlines the primary responsibility for the payment of the area - it can also resort to governmental organizations which have caused the delay or cancellation? i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a reply to the question.
- mr president, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i should like to thank my colleague, mr khanbhai, very warmly for his own-initiative report. as a member of the acp delegation to the european parliament, i have been concerned with this issue for many years. sustainable agricultural policy, land reform and rural development are important policy challenges for developing countries' autonomy. why have we not been able to make a more decisive contribution to improving the situation in the poorest countries with our large financial support? i always wonder what europe is doing wrong. what are the rich countries doing wrong, but what opportunities do the poor countries have by increasing their own efforts? i think we have to become much more impatient on these issues, because we are seeing - and we have examples of this - that the world's population will no longer tolerate this injustice. as european agricultural politicians we know all too well that the common agricultural policy of the european community is regularly and sharply criticized for its effects on the agriculture of the poorest countries, and this has been the case again in some of the debates here tonight. it is true, however, that critics, in my view, often take this answer too lightly, for it is wrong to believe that greater trade openness will necessarily lead to better development of the food sector in developing countries. many have said it: the eu is already the world's largest food importer, and with this in mind, the agricultural problem of the vast majority of developing countries is not solved by intensifying trade and deregulating agriculture alone. it is wrong - and i am addressing this to mrs kinnock - to call for total liberalization without national quotas in the developing countries. this would lead to a ruthless distortion of competition, and small farmers would have no chance of survival. let me conclude by mentioning three facts: we need production for self-sufficiency, for export on cleared land, we need better employment, we need sustainable management, and we should think of new ways.
- mrs maes, we'll take note of that. i'll pass your request on to the president's office. i don't think it would be appropriate for me to make a statement in this place in such a spontaneous way. this should be done in a more formal form. we have noted your suggestion and thank you for it.
- ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that parliament must react to this question with one voice.
- i have the great pleasure of welcoming to the gallery the delegation from new zealand led by the speaker of the house, mr jonathan hunt. mr president, we welcome you to this house. (applause) i would like to thank the new zealand delegation consists of five members of parliament. the tenth interparliamentary conference of the european parliament and new zealand began its work yesterday and has already held several sessions. more work is planned for today. the european union and new zealand are closely linked to each other by shared values, trust in democratic institutions and the essential role of parliamentary democracy. we welcome your visit to our parliament in strasbourg and wish you a good visit and a renewal of the friendly relations between europe and new zealand! (applause) i would like to thank
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0343/2002), on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the common position of the council (c5-0384/2002 - 2001/0118 (cod)) with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive on insider dealing and market manipulation (market abuse) (rapporteur: mr goebbels).
commission. – i wish to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr goebbels, for all his efforts. as we all know, he has been working under heavy pressure. this is a very complex and sensitive issue. i applaud the fact that he has resolutely defended the aim of the directive, which is to enhance the integrity of european financial markets. i should also like to thank the shadow rapporteur and members of this parliament and, in particular, of the committee on economic and monetary affairs for their readiness to proceed as quickly as possible. after all the discussions we have had on comitology in the past, let me highlight the successful cooperation between our institutions in drawing up this directive, the first to apply the lamfalussy approach in full. i believe that today’s text will provide a good basis for effective cooperation between the european commission and the european parliament in the future. as mr goebbels knows, the commission is in favour of amending articles 202 and 211 of the treaty to bring the positions of parliament and the council into line. i hope that will become even clearer in the contribution the commission is preparing for the convention, which, i hope, will be finalised by the end of november. mr goebbels, his colleagues and the commission think alike on that topic. i assure this parliament that the european union has no truck with greedy financial cheats – certainly not with the equivalent of financial mad cows, as mr goebbels called them. that is a very vivid phrase which the commission finds very apt. we want stable, transparent, integrated and efficient european markets for every consumer and investor. the directive will indeed enhance investor protection and make european financial markets more secure and attractive in future. it will dispel the international concerns expressed over the last few years about insider dealing and manipulation on european markets. as we are all aware, recent events have shown how important these issues are. scandals like enron and other household names show clearly the need for strong rules to make markets more transparent and safe, to ensure that they remain free of abuse and free of fraud. the smooth functioning of financial markets and public confidence in them are essential to sustained economic growth and the creation of wealth. abuse of markets leads to companies paying more for the finance they need; investors will stay away and the economy will suffer as a result. we must do everything to stamp this out and to restore public confidence in our markets. the directive aims to do just that. since there has been an in-depth discussion about the application of the directive to journalists, which mr goebbels referred to, let me say a few words on that subject. firstly, may i make it clear that under no circumstances do we want to add to the burdens of journalists. the directive does not do that. journalism is a difficult profession; the pressure of work is great and we do not want to add to that. the directive guarantees freedom of expression and the liberty of the media. that is clearly expressed in the recitals, and the text of the directive itself introduces several safeguards for journalists, including the possibility of self-regulation. however, recent scandals in several member states have shown how recommendations by journalists to buy or sell a specific share can influence its market price to their advantage. what we do not want is to exempt from transparency obligations the small category of highly specialised financial journalists who recommend investment strategies. the commission cannot therefore accept amendments 6 and 7. it would not seem justified to exempt this rather small category of persons from basic market integrity standards which apply to all the other market participants. in addition, completely or partially excluding journalists from the scope of the directive would mean harmonising the definition of ‘journalist’ at community level, not a very easy task and something we do not wish to do. therefore, amendment 5 is a compromise proposed by the committee on economic and monetary affairs for today’s plenary. it is fair both to journalists and to the public interest, and therefore acceptable. i strongly hope that members of this parliament share the view of mr goebbels and of the commission on this point. after all, financial journalists who specifically recommend a certain strategy to the investing public should declare any conflict of interests they may have. i do not see why that should not be a useful aspect of this directive. so the commission can agree with amendments 1 to 5, but we cannot agree, for the reasons which i have already explained, to amendments 6 and 7. should parliament adopt the common position together with amendments 1 to 5 and reject amendments 6 and 7, for which i am now making a plea, i hope the council will be able finally to accept this text in the next few weeks. adoption of the directive before the end of the year would be a major step towards the integration of european financial markets by 2005 that we all aspire to. i recommend adoption of this directive to parliament and i hope that all who take part in the debate will agree with mr goebbels and myself.
- ladies and gentlemen, i now have the pleasure of calling mr. thomas mann. before you speak, mr president, i should like to congratulate you warmly on receiving the federal cross of merit from the president of the federal republic of germany yesterday. congratulations from all of us, mr. mann! (applause) since he is in the chamber, i should also like to take this opportunity - if you will excuse me - to congratulate the group chairman who is standing before me. he too received the federal cross of merit from the president of the federal republic of germany yesterday. congratulations to both of our colleagues ! (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, i have to go. i am particularly honoured that you are chairing this important report. the series of scandals in the american and european financial markets continues. it makes it clear that there are many black sheep among its actors who lack professional seriousness. there are false balance sheets, embezzlement of funds, misinformation sent to the public. securities are first celebrated in the price, then they are sold at a profit, and then the price falls rapidly. market abuse and insider trading have hurt many small shareholders. clear rules and confidence-building measures are therefore needed. as shadow rapporteur for the epp-ed group in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i was involved in a number of motions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the quality of these was recognised by the council, which accepted almost 60 in full and approved 10 more in part. i would like to repeat my congratulations to the rapporteur, robert goebbels, on the second reading today. we have reached important agreements. one of the controversial topics is frontrunning. this is the case where traders act on their own account on the basis of a customer order, which can move the market by its size alone, even before executing the customer's order. this is an exploitation of inside information and already prohibited today. a ban should apply to all markets falling within the scope of the directive. there is considerable discussion on the issue of financial journalists who advise the public on investment so that they have to disclose their conflicts of interest. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. there are journalists who have successfully used their publications to manipulate stock prices for their own benefit. it should be in the interest of journalists themselves to distinguish between the serious and the not-so-serious. it is not acceptable that a small part of a single profession should be granted a derogation. i have proposed as a compromise, on the basis of the request of my distinguished colleague mrs kauppi, that the rules of the profession of journalist, including self-regulation, be taken into account in the technical arrangements. an amendment tabled jointly with the rapporteur, mr goebbels, proposes to insert this clause in the relevant article 6 (10). we have a large majority in the committee. i am, of course, aware of the criticism of cesr and the open letter from journalists' associations about the work of this committee of european securities regulators for financial services. i would point out, however, that it has no legislative powers, and therefore cannot regulate the work of journalists. it was invited by the commission to act as an independent advisory body. the commission will then draw up the legal text, which will be submitted both to the european securities committee - which includes representatives of the member states' finance ministries - and to us, the european parliament. i cannot imagine that the commission will ignore the principles of freedom of the press and freedom of expression of journalists. the commission's proposal is to be incorporated in the recitals of this directive. as the shadow rapporteur for the epp-ed group, i therefore call for support for the decisions of the economic and monetary committee of the beginning of october, which are now slightly modified, as amendments nos 1 to 5. i am very much in agreement with you, commissioner. in these circumstances, the chances of a rapid agreement by the commission and the council are good. the directive could enter into force at the beginning of 2003. this would be a crucial step towards greater integrity of european financial markets, and towards renewed confidence and increased investment by investors. i think we have a good chance of securing a broad consensus on this important part of the comitology. (applause from the centre)
commission. – mr president, i have asked to speak again on this subject because of certain remarks made by mrs villiers, mrs kauppi and mr huhne. both mrs villiers and mrs kauppi said that freedom of speech is under attack. with all due respect to those members of parliament who have spoken and whom i have just mentioned, that is a caricature of the aims of this directive. financial journalists are free to write whatever they wish. there is not the slightest doubt that they can write as they please. the only thing the directive says is that, when they recommend to the public certain stocks in which they themselves have invested, they must state that fact. in other words, if financial journalists advise the public to buy shares in a certain company and if they themselves own shares in that company, they must declare how many shares they own. i do not understand why that should be an attack on the freedom of the press or, as mr huhne said, regulation of the press or of the media by the back door. why should the rule of transparency apply to all and sundry who engage in dealings on the stock market but not to financial journalists? after all, we are simply asking them to be transparent about their investment in stocks they are recommending the public buy. (applause)
- this debate is over. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m.
- doc. a5-0324/2002 by mr beysen, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision (com (2001) 775 - c5-0111/2002 - 2001/0311 (cod)) amending decision 1254/96/ec establishing a series of guidelines for transeuropean networks in the energy sector.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by thanking my colleague, mr ward beysen, very much. i am not usually one of those who starts a debate by congratulating the rapporteur, because i think that is our job and we usually do it well. but i think it is right to expressly commend mr beysen for having tried from the outset to contact the other groups in order to present a report in plenary as concise as possible. he did it very well. so thank you for including me in the early stages. the result, for example, was that my group did not feel it necessary to table its own amendments at all, because i think what ward beysen did was good. i would therefore like to make just three brief political points which are important to me. firstly, the commissioner has made it clear that this decision is in line with the whole area of energy market opening, so it is a contribution to what is currently before the council. and as regards the whole energy market opening package, i must say again that we have done our homework in time. we adopted our first reading here in the house on 13 march after the council had strongly urged that we should do so quickly. the commission has done the same, it has also done its homework. only the council still doesn't. the council is doing the usual, it is doing what it always likes to do, namely, it is doing nothing. he sits there, talking, and he doesn't make a decision. this is institutionalized indecision. that is why i must say at this point that this is a package and that we want to finally have results so that we can move forward. secondly, i think it is right that the commission has proposed - and we should really decide this way - that projects of strategic importance in the field of transeuropean energy networks should be given special attention. this means projects which are important from the point of view of security of supply and precisely those projects of strategic importance which are necessary for the opening up of the market, and therefore in particular also what is connected with a part of this package of which i have spoken, namely the regulation for which mr mombaur is rapporteur. it is a pity that he is not here today, i think he would have made some very clear remarks on this. the third point: unlike transport networks, industry and companies generally make real money on energy networks. you make money! and that means that it is primarily the industry's job to provide funding for such projects. our task as legislators is to support this through the creation of a framework, and here again i can only say that the council should stop. so we want to do that, we want to help finance the support, but first of all the companies have to do a little bit of work.
- ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to rule 120 (5) of the rules of procedure, the vice-president of the commission, mrs de palacio, will now take the floor to close the debate.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. i thank mrs jackson for her important question and mrs wallström for her honest answer. it is a pity, however, that we cannot realistically expect any major political progress in new delhi, because people are expecting something else. after the terrible floods in germany and neighbouring countries, there was already the expectation that the climate problem would finally be solved in johannesburg, and at that time it was said that a different agenda was planned. in new delhi, the situation is similar, but we must persist in negotiating, even if rapid progress is not always possible. we must also remember that kyoto is only a first step, and that is why we are very clear in our resolution that there must be equal rights for all citizens in the end, and that means basically that per capita emissions should be the same everywhere in the world. but this means a great deal more for the developing countries than we have just promised in kyoto. in view of the recent debate in germany on emissions trading, it must be remembered that in germany too all parties agree that we need to reduce emissions by 80% - i repeat, minus 80% - by 2050 in the long term, and if we are already arguing so vigorously against this, if a first step is to be taken, then i actually see no end in sight for this long-term goal. we must nevertheless stand by this and we will confirm this in the resolution. the ratification by russia, japan and the united states is still very, very important. we have been told many times that we cannot always demand this, that there must not be a meeting at any level between the representatives of the european union - whether it be the commission or the council of ministers or us in parliament - between the eu and the usa, between the eu and russia, at which this issue is not discussed. it must be the top priority in relations with these countries. we must not let this go unchecked, and i also expressly support what mr moreira da silva has said on the wto. we must insist in the wto that we can keep certain products out of the european market if they are produced in a way that further destroys the climate. the credibility of the european union is of course crucial. we have to act at home. the european parliament has adopted a clear position on emissions trading by a very large majority. i regret that the council of ministers has postponed the decision for the first time, and i regret that the initial reactions indicate that important amendments which we have adopted - for example, to the cap or to the base year 1990 - are not necessarily going to be accepted. the council must adopt a clear approach quickly, and i believe that we must also negotiate here as the european parliament. that's what it was. i think that the commission should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the negotiations. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. climate policy is a process that will take us into the 21st century, and i hope that europe will continue to take a leading role in this. i would like to say something about the members of parliament. we have not only kyoto, but also other issues - i am thinking of the international monetary fund, fiscal policy, global credit policy, environmental policy and trade policy - more and more global processes that are actually determined only by the executive. the parliaments will then turn a blind eye to this, and there is no other way. the question is: can parliamentarians not be more closely involved in the process of opinion formation in the face of the increasing globalisation of the world? this is also a question for us parliamentarians, for our parliaments. we must find new forms of cooperation and not just attack the executive or, in this case, the commission . secondly, kyoto must be ratified, and that will be our main task in new delhi. we must convince our colleagues, especially our russian colleagues, that this is a sensible move. third remark: the policy of reducing co2 also other greenhouse gas emissions, but above all co2 is always mentioned as renewable energy. that's right, too. i don't want to argue with that. only if we go to new delhi will we come to a country that gets well over 50% of its energy from coal. if we could bring coal technology in such a country to the european level, we would save much, much more co2 worldwide than all the other very expensive savings. this is a truth we must not ignore. this means that if we want to have a climate policy, we need an active coal policy. this should be mentioned in the same breath as renewable energy, because 80% of our energy worldwide is still derived from fossil fuels. and the last point: i think climate policy also gives us an opportunity to build a new relationship with developing countries, through emissions trading. it was the commission itself that carried out a very interesting study in seville at its institute, also with a view to 2030, which states that in 2030 emissions trading with asia will amount to about 80 billion euros. this means a flow of capital of about 80 billion euros towards these countries. know-how is being transferred to these countries, and we have the advantage that the emission reductions are also credited to our account. that means there's a trade-off that benefits both sides. we should think more in this direction.
- mr president, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. when we discussed the seed directive in parliament in the mid-1990s, i was rapporteur for the committee on agriculture. we asked for the final vote on genetically modified organisms to be suspended and we got it done. i then spent two years negotiating for the agriculture committee. the question at that time was not whether or not to use genetic engineering, but the question was whether to include the labelling and incorporation of this seed directive and the modalities into the release directive, which was still 90/220. that is achieved. at that time, science had made it clear to us that there could be a coexistence of growing genetically modified plants and growing non-genetically modified plants. contamination has been ruled out by science. this is now outdated, first by practice and then by science. we now have the problem of contamination which is not wanted by those who want to grow without using genetic engineering, whether conventional or organic, or who are legally obliged to do so under the organic regulation. the commission now wants to set a threshold below which the labelling is not required. here the numbers get a little confusing. we were talking about 1%, but now we are talking about 0.3% and 0.5%. but anyway, we have the situation that there is now an unintentional release of genetically modified organisms on a significant scale. if we apply this to seven and a half to eight million hectares of rapeseed and maize, then seven million crops are planted each year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the aim here is to establish a rule in the comitology procedure which, if enforced in this way, would be contrary to what the european parliament has set in the food labelling directive, namely 0.5%. if we allow seeding without labelling at these scales, it is to be expected that the other value will be exceeded and that all those who do not actually use genetically modified organisms will be forced to be labelled or to be checked. we must come to a regulation which makes it clear - and this is also the position of the committee on agriculture, which we have just voted on once again - that there must be coexistence, that those who want to use genetically modified organisms must ensure that those who do not want to use them are not associated with them. this applies both to the 70% of farmers in germany who do not want this and to the approximately the same percentage of consumers who do not want this. it is therefore pointless to assume a certain threshold value, because the risk of exceeding it and the costs are hardly individually borne in compensation schemes. so we must create a system so that those who cause pollution can be held accountable according to the polluter principle. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we should also take the science into account and clarify in hearings how to achieve a coexistence that really deserves the name. all this takes time and must not be over-reached. until then, it must be ensured that seeds are free from any contamination for those who do not wish to use gmos. (applause from the centre)
commission. – mr president, the questions are very important in the context of the current debate on gmos in europe. we still do not have a clear-cut reply to some of mr graefe zu baringdorf's questions. please accept that my answers are to some extent preliminary ones, which will require further scrutiny and reflection, both within the commission and in our ongoing discussions with the member states and the different stakeholders. i wish to begin with a short description of the problem we are faced with when dealing with the adventitious presence of gm seeds in conventional products. this is also important for everyone who has followed this debate. on a global scale, gmo cultivation has increased dramatically in recent years. in 2001, 5.5 million farmers in 13 countries grew an estimated 52.6 million acres with gm crops. between 2000 and 2001, the number of acres planted to gm crops increased by almost 20%. for some crops, the increase was particularly large. in the us, gm corn increased from 4.4% of all planted acres in 1996 to 32% in 2002. gm soya beans increased from 7.4% in 1996 to 74% in 2002. to date, the cultivation of gmos has been geographically concentrated, with 99% of all gm crops produced by four nations: the united states of america, argentina, canada and china. however, gm cultivation is likely to spread to other nations in the next few years. so far europe has played a very marginal role, with fewer than 20 000 acres of gm crops, mainly in spain and france. that is some 0.03% of the worldwide area. europe has large volumes of trade with major gm producers – although trade in gm products has mainly concerned products for animal feed. imports of gm products for human consumption, like maize, have largely ceased, because of the inability of exporters to ensure the identity of all individual gmos in shipments. the last few years have shown that the adventitious presence of traces of gmos in conventional products has become inevitable. cross-pollination between plants is a natural phenomenon – that also happens between other seeds. we simply cannot completely control its mechanisms, which include factors such as wind and insect movements. it is therefore largely unavoidable that small traces of gmos will be transferred to conventional crops and their harvested products. storage and transportation practices may also make it difficult or extremely costly to ensure total segregation. consequently, conventional seed lots will contain traces of gm seeds. setting tolerance thresholds for impurities for gm seeds in this particular case is the only way to address the problem. closing our market completely is not a viable option. against this background, the commission is currently preparing a proposal for a commission directive amending the annexes to the seed directives. this proposal includes additional conditions and requirements concerning the adventitious presence of gm seeds in lots of non-gm seeds. the committee on agriculture has been informed twice about the status of this proposal. commissioner byrne has written to inform mrs jackson that the text will be formally submitted to the european parliament, which will then have the opportunity to scrutinise it. article 21(2) of directive 18/2001/ec provides for the possibility of establishing thresholds below which traces of authorised gmos are exempted from labelling requirements. hence, conventional products containing adventitious traces of such gm seeds below this threshold would not have to be labelled. let me now answer some of the questions raised by mr graefe zu baringdorf. on the competent body to set thresholds, the regulatory committee, provided for in directive 18/2001/ec, is competent for decisions pertaining to thresholds under article 21(2) of the directive, with regard to exemption from labelling requirements. however, it is not competent for decisions made under the sector-specific seeds directives, where thresholds relate specifically to marketing criteria for seeds. the standing committee on seeds rightly has the necessary competence in this case. consistency between the different pieces of legislation has to be maintained. on the risks that a significant percentage of gm seeds may be released out of control into the environment, i would first say that it is paramount that any threshold should take account of the protection of human health and, importantly, in the case of seeds, the environment. you will be aware that this includes a comprehensive free-market assessment of the potential risks. secondly, thresholds must be workable and enforceable. the proposed thresholds arise directly from the opinion of the scientific committee on plants and are scientifically founded with reference to the characteristics of the crop species. thirdly, on the registration of gmo cultivation, under the provisions of article 31(3)(b), member states are required to establish registers for recording the location of gm fields grown for commercial purposes. as detailed in the article, the objective of this is to allow the possible effects of these gmos on the environment to be monitored. as for the scope of directive 18/2001/ec, this clearly relates to cultivation of a gm seed product itself and not a conventional seed product containing traces of gm seeds. the gm seed product itself has to be labelled as such and also traced, so that growers will know what they are sowing. it will therefore be possible for member states to record the locations of the resultant crops. however, the threshold values, which are based on robust scientific assessment, should aim at ensuring that the cultivation of conventional seeds basically maintains the characteristics of non-gm cultivation. coexistence is a key issue in the commission communication on life sciences and biotechnology – a strategy for the future. the commission has commissioned a number of studies on this issue. the main aim is to assess the consequences arising from an increase in the cultivation of gm crops in the european union in the context of coexistence. so far, we only have preliminary data based on hypothetical scenarios, and further experimental data is required to provide a more accurate picture. the commission is actively pursuing such work before considering possible options to ensure the viability of conventional and organic farming and their sustainable coexistence with gm crops. as a further step in this process, the commission has commenced discussions in partnership with member states, farmers and other private operators to find the most appropriate solutions. it is important to say that the issue of coexistence is not one of risk per se. it does, however, highlight a possible need to establish correct agricultural management systems and practices for the different crop types to ensure their coexistence and consumer choice. this is my initial reply to your questions and i will be happy to make further comments at the end of the debate.
- mr president, i have to go. let me ask you a quick question. the commissioner said that the committee on agriculture and rural development had been informed. that's right, you're right. she said that parliament would be informed. we have been promised that too. we do not want to be informed, commissioner, when you have made your decision, but we want to be involved in the decisionmaking process. we are complaining that this should be regulated as a technical annex. we believe that this is a key amendment to the directive and we want to be involved in this decision-making process! i would like you to comment on this or at least to convey this to the whole commission.
commission. – mr president, this is a recurring institutional debate. should the codecision procedure or comitology be used? the seeds directives provide for purity criteria in the annexes and they can be adapted to scientific and technical knowledge by the comitology procedure provided for under the seeds directive. it is thus possible to set thresholds for gm presence in non-gm varieties through a comitology procedure. the 1% food labelling threshold provided for in a council regulation has been set by the comitology procedure provided for under the foodstuff labelling legislation. article 21(2) of directive 2001/18/ec also states that labelling thresholds may be set in the comitology procedure provided for under the directive. timing and the possibility of making it a practical procedure are also factors.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i too have complained on several occasions in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection that the seed-trading regulation is being pushed so far in the comitology procedure. i have said that i think it would be more sensible for the commission to wait until the european parliament has completed the procedures currently under way before adopting the gmo seed scheme in this comitology procedure. we need to ensure that the new seed regimes are consistent with the regulations on gmos in food and feed and on traceability and labelling of gmos. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the decision was as close as possible in some respects, and particularly in relation to the thresholds. we are currently awaiting the decision of the council of ministers, which has been postponed again since last week to december. a final decision by the council and the european parliament is not likely to be expected before the middle of next year. i think it would be better if the commission kept its paper in the drawer for another year and then adjusted the thresholds to the regulations currently pending. so much for the procedure. i would like to make a few comments on the substance. the question of whether gmos are good or bad is not really part of today's debate. but since mr graefe zu baringdorf is referring to positions on gmos in his questions, i am quite prepared to do so. all the questions asked by the honourable member show that he has not understood something or does not want to accept it. there is a difference between the release of gmos under directive 2001/18 on the one hand and the setting of a technical limit value for the incidental presence of gmos in conventional seed in the context of an amendment to the annexes to the seed marketing directives on the other. these directives contain a wide range of technical regulations and rules on the quality and marketing of seeds in the eu. mr graefe zu baringdorf himself has said that, as is the custom, the directives were adopted after the european parliament had itself been consulted. it also provided that certain technical details would be settled under the regulatory committee procedure. the commission is not, of course, deciding on the release of gmos, but on the definition of another quality standard for conventional seeds, and this is in accordance with a competence under existing eu law. that is what the commissioner said. the scientific committee, like countless other scientific papers, confirms that statistically semi-reliable statements do not allow a limit of less than 0.1%. this is the limit of analysis. there is no zero percent, there is no such thing as gmo-free. the commission's draft proposes thresholds for gmos which do not pose risks to the environment and consumers and which can therefore be grown commercially in the eu. the registration requirements of directive 2001/18 have nothing to do with the marketing of conventional seed. far more problematic may be the secondary seed that farmers themselves produce. it is not subject to any quality control obligation and therefore does not undergo any tests for the presence of gmos. mr graefe zu baringdorf himself is in favour of liberalizing these subsidy schemes. the lower the threshold for the incidental presence of gmos, the more likely it will be that conventional and organic products will be required to be labelled. the commission, several member states and a large part of the european parliament are therefore advocating the realistic 1% limit in the forthcoming gmo regulations. in conclusion, i would like to say that a practical farmer should not lack a basic understanding of the simple biological facts of the unintended and technically unavoidable presence of seed of type a in type b. a practical farmer is our colleague graefe zu baringdorf. there are natural events. gmos are always around.
- mr president, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am actually appalled by your answer, because you have not addressed in one sentence the central question of how we want to achieve or guarantee consumer freedom of choice. you have not said a single word about how we are dealing with the decision of parliament at first reading on the 0.5% mark. that is exactly what the council is negotiating now! with your planned limit for seeds, this value is not attainable! you know that, and i would therefore ask you to tell us how you intend to draw the consequences of this vote by parliament. does this mean that you want to rush ahead, that you want to create a fait accompli now, that you are planning a christmas present for the seed industry, so to speak? i think you have to say here today how you are going to deal with the decision of parliament at first reading on this regulation. you said here too that there is an unavoidable pollution. this is as wrong as it is unacceptable! you're making yourself the mouthpiece of the gene-tech industry, because that's what the lobby says, but it's not true. tests in europe have shown that there is no significant contamination of seeds, and there is even a purity law for seeds in austria, and i think that is exactly what we need. we need consumer choice, and to guarantee it we need this cleanliness rule. we must not capitulate to pollution, which cannot exist if the policy is to be followed, because then we cannot release products, no seeds, which cause such great pollution. so we need consumer choice, and please do not give the seed industry christmas presents, but give us a timetable today. we want to know what the commission is planning and whether it is really prepared to accept the democratic decision of parliament and wait until we have adopted this resolution in the scheele report.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. in view of mr graefe's question on baringdorf, it is important to emphasize that we are talking about the accidental presence of gmos which are authorized in the european union. so it is not a question of releasing gmos, but of defining another quality standard for the marketing of conventional seeds. in june, parliament adopted at first reading the proposal for a regulation on the traceability and labelling of gmos and genetically modified food and feed, calling for a threshold of 0.5%. i agree with the commission that this value is too low and not feasible. a 1% tolerance threshold for the accidental presence of gmos in non-gmos is realistic. in setting the thresholds in the seed sector we are talking about, the commission must take due account of the proposals of the european parliament and the council on thresholds in the procedure mentioned. the thresholds for the incidental presence of gmos in both texts should be aligned. i would also stress that uncontrolled propagation is a potential additional source of the presence of gmos in food and feed. the seed produced from the plant is not subject to any mandatory quality control and is therefore not tested for the presence of gmos. that is something that must be made very clear here. the commission's biotechnology strategy highlights the coexistence of different forms of cultivation as a major priority. coexistence can only be ensured by reasonable thresholds, since in nature, for example, pollen flight can never be technically excluded. a hundred percent purity has never been possible for biological reasons and will never be possible in the future. thresholds for the purity of a product are common and necessary in many areas. for example, in the field of organic farming, there is a 5% threshold. this means that products labelled as organic may contain up to 5% of certain non-organic ingredients. i would also like to address this to the greens. the important criterion must be that the legal framework is practicable. in particular, they must be in line with wto rules and not burden the development of biotechnology in europe with unnecessary bureaucracy.
- mr president, i have to go. there are different extremes in this discussion of the criminal court. we have heard one of them before, mrs cauquil's speech. mrs cauquil, i have to tell you quite frankly, we do not want a world revolutionary tribunal. to make such a case as yours is the surest way to defeat the idea of a criminal court. on the other hand, we also want - and i agree with you on this - not to have a criminal court which is just an alibi in the hands of the great powers. i am extremely sorry that in the united states, china, russia and other countries there are increasingly powerful forces who want to reduce this criminal court to an alibi if they cannot or do not want to prevent it altogether. we as the european union are following a clear path of law. i believe that this path is in a good and important tradition. the council of europe was founded here in strasbourg as a human rights community over 50 years ago. it is here in strasbourg that the european convention on human rights was adopted and the european court of human rights was set up. the european parliament has been sitting here in strasbourg for 50 years as the voice of the people, as the voice of the european legal community. we have very consciously placed the idea of the copenhagen criteria - democracy and the rule of law - at the head of the historic process of enlargement which is now reaching its culmination, because we want to extend this community of law to the whole of the continent. this is a consequence of our history, which has unfortunately been particularly marked by genocide, expulsion, dispossession and oppression of minorities, as well as crimes against humanity. we have no right to play the role of teacher to the rest of the world, as we sometimes do, if we do not take our own character as a community of law seriously. this means not only a community of law at home, but it means that we need to be the strong partner of others around the world when it comes to a global community of law. the court of justice was established in rome, just as our founding treaty was, and the idea of rome is also linked in a special way to the concept of law. the rome statute, which is the basis of the criminal court, must not be eroded, weakened or watered down. if we do not want the necessary trials against genocide, against crimes against humanity, which are repeatedly taking place, to be unjustly denigrated as a victorious or punctual justice, then we need a permanent criminal court that applies equally to all, whether large or small states, regardless of the nationality of the perpetrator or the criminal. that is why we want to keep this statute unchanged. we strongly criticise the council of the european union for lacking clarity and dignity, for trying to sneak in here again and again with manoeuvres, for bowing down to the powers. if this europe wants to take itself seriously, it must stand up hard for this criminal court and it must also tell the united states of america that although they are our most important ally, it is precisely such an ally in the free world that has the duty to take the law seriously, even if it might be inconvenient for it. the response to 9/11 is not unilateralism, but the strengthening of the global community of law. we therefore call for the rapid and unwavering ratification of the rome statute. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. as rapporteur for iran, i support the resolution adopted by the various groups. dialogue with iran is important. but we as a parliament also place particular emphasis on the dialogue on human rights. as members of parliament we are free from diplomatic considerations when it comes to demanding these universally valid principles. we therefore make it clear to all countries concerned that we are opposed to the death penalty in general. i would also like to express my opinion on the increase in the number of death sentences carried out in iran compared with previous years. the conservative forces within formal and informal structures use publicly executed death sentences or corporal punishment to intimidate both the population and the more liberal forces in parliament and other social institutions. this has nothing to do with islam or the koran. as the pressure inside increases, the repression increases accordingly. but that is why we should stick to the facts in all criticism, and we should check every claim, from whatever source it comes. i am therefore opposed to burdening the resolution with allegations which we cannot prove. we would be undermining our own credibility. they've been sentenced to stoning. we have evidence of enforcement in two cases in the first half of 2001, but not in the case of 25 september 2002. let us therefore take advantage of iran's willingness to discuss all human rights issues, including individual cases, without preconditions, as it expressed in talks with the eu-iran human rights exploratory experts mission earlier this month. i am afraid, however, that the council has done a bad deal in the way it has now officially refrained from bringing the annual human rights resolution on iran to the united nations. the presidency is not to be criticized here, but the usual suspects who feel disturbed in their business are. we say: the willingness to dialogue is good, let us conduct it comprehensively, and if we see improvements, we should refrain from introducing new resolutions in due course. there can be no advance to the detriment of human rights. in view of this situation, we should clearly remind the structures in iran which are affected - and i believe the council and the commission as well - of one thing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
commission. – mr president, i should like to express my gratitude to honourable members for tabling this motion for a resolution. naturally, the commission continues to be concerned by the human rights situation in iran and, in particular, by the persistence of repressive measures against democratic institutions, civil society and the media. the prevalence of arbitrary arrests, torture, discrimination against minorities and evident lack of the rule of law are all deeply disturbing. the all-too-plentiful evidence of the use of cruel, inhuman and degrading punishments, including the appalling stoning of children, of women and of men, continue to demonstrate the scarcity of civilised standards. the most effective way to raise these concerns is through the half-yearly comprehensive dialogue meetings, bilateral talks at ministerial level and similar sustained activities. in addition, avenues for more direct and specific dialogue have been explored recently by the troika, as several members said. on 21 october the gaerc endorsed the strategy for starting a human rights dialogue with iran on the basis of the recommendations of the exploratory troika mission that visited teheran from 30 september to 1 october last. during these explanatory talks, the iranian government voiced a political will to enter into a human rights dialogue and to do so largely on the eu's terms. no restrictions were requested in relation to the list of human rights issues to be discussed and the dialogue will be regularly assessed with the help of specific and realistic benchmarks, such as reports from the visits of the united nations thematics rapporteurs. the dialogue would initially take the form of an experimental round table in teheran in december of this year. its format will be assessed immediately after the first session and could be revised, as necessary, in the spring of 2003. the opening of negotiations with iran on a trade and cooperation agreement, indissolubly linked to instruments on political dialogue and counter-terrorism, gives the european union substantial leverage, since the progress in the negotiations will be directly related to parallel progress in, among other things, human rights. this connection is at the heart of the political package defined at the june council and formally adopted on 12 july. the establishment of a structured eu-iran dialogue on human rights is obviously not a complete antidote to the variety of deep and serious concerns. at this juncture, however, it seems to constitute the most effective available means of promoting our attempts to bring about tangible improvements in the grievous human rights situation in iran. i emphasise that, in all of this, our concerns relate to the basic rights and well-being of human beings, regardless of their faith, regardless of their customs. that is the fundamental value that guides us and provides the motivation of the european union. we will continue to act upon those fundamentals.
- mr president, i have to go. commissioner, i have just one request. would the commission be prepared to involve the european parliament in the round table in tehran in december?
- mr president, i have to go. the escalation of violence in nepal is an unacceptable threat to the stability of the entire himalayan region. the maoist guerrillas continue their work of destruction unabated. in many parts of nepal, schools and hospitals no longer exist, and infrastructure has been destroyed for years. every week we hear of more murders of police officers and civilians. the last sad highlight is the blowing up of the famous statue of king mahendra in the middle of patan, an area i know particularly well. one bystander was dragged to his death, nine other people were injured. the guerrillas want - against the clear will of the majority of the population - the end of the constitutional monarchy. since 1996, more than 5 000 people have been killed in the violence. in may we had a conference with prime minister deuba in the european parliament in brussels. now he has been deposed by the king for, contrary to his declared intentions, advocating a one-year postponement of the elections scheduled for november. his successor bahadur chand, who has already served twice as prime minister, is the head of the transitional government. he promised to ensure peace and stability in the country and to enter into negotiations with the rebels. the position of the epp is clear. nepal needs the rule of law, pluralism and the continuation of parliamentary democracy. the fight against corruption and nepotism must be vigorously pursued and the postponed elections must be accompanied by effective security measures so that they can take place as soon as possible. we call on the european union to offer itself as a mediator. the council should appoint a special representative for nepal. i hope the commission shares this view. as a long-time vice-chairman of the saarc delegation and from my regular contacts in and out of nepal, i know that europeans are highly regarded. we can best be honest brokers in making important contributions to a peace that the nepalese people have long deserved.
mr president, on the subject of the procedure: i was a little surprised to learn at 1 p.m. today that there was this motion by the greens. we are a democratic group, where the chairman never decides alone. i then immediately sent an e-mail to the bureau and to the two coordinators, philippe morillon and arie oostlander, saying that we would support this motion by the greens in case i received no objection. but i would ask you, mr cohn-bendit, to ensure that in future we have time to discuss this matter democratically in our groups. since i have received no objection from the bureau or the coordinators, our group is in favour of linking the issue to the statement by the high representative solana. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the issues we are debating today will certainly be of great interest to our citizens and they offer the opportunity to put an end to a certain schizophrenia here, because we have been asking more of the candidate countries than of our own member states in the negotiations. i would therefore like to congratulate the commission on following the vice-president's proposal and to mention one more important argument for community standards. the sooner we have community standards, the sooner we have the chance to make them work outside, for example in russia and ukraine, which is in our interest and very important. and it would be the best way to support the ieae organization. the commission's proposals are not only a means of achieving the objectives of the treaty, but also a means of ensuring that the community's objectives are achieved.
president of the council. - mr president, first of all i would like to thank you very much for the positive welcome and i would also like to take this opportunity to express my deep appreciation for the good and close cooperation between the european parliament and the danish presidency. it is a cooperation to which we attach the utmost importance and therefore i am very pleased to note that it is taking place in the most positive way. the european parliament and the presidency have a joint project. we share the same vision, we work for a common goal. the enlargement of the european union is the greatest political task of our generation. it is a challenge and an opportunity that extends beyond our own time. for better or worse, enlargement is rooted in our common history and will have a decisive impact on the lives and opportunities of our descendants. the enlargement of the european union marks the end of the european tragedy of the 20th century and is the gateway to a common future for our peoples in freedom, peace and prosperity. the history of europe has been one of war, crisis and human misery. on the other hand, europe and our european culture are also characterized by a unique capacity to rebuild themselves, to reinvent themselves, to rediscover and redefine their values and objectives. the 20th century was a disaster for europe. two terrible world wars tore our continent to shreds. the cataclysm of world war ii was followed by more than 40 years of communist dictatorship in central and eastern europe. for almost half a century we have lived with an artificial division of europe. before the first world war, our continent was marked by optimism, confidence and a belief in the future. those values were drowned out by the cannon fire of august 1914 and were trampled to death in the trenches of world war i. we have never really recovered the optimism and faith in the future that characterized the early years of the 20th century. the enlargement of the european union marks the beginning of a new era in european history. enlargement can give europe the dynamism and the power to lay the foundations of a new european consciousness. enlargement is the key to europe's future. after 90 years - from 1914 to 2004 - we can finally close one of the bloodiest and darkest chapters in europe's history. it is a task that inspires, a responsibility that commits. in this context, i would like to thank the european parliament for its continued and unreserved support for the enlargement project. this support was most recently expressed in the debate in the plenary on 23 october and was strongly expressed by the president of parliament to the european council at the brussels summit. on behalf of the presidency, i would like to thank parliament for this clear and strong message. it is also against this background that i am very pleased to inform you all here today that the european council at its brussels summit confirmed the full support of the eu countries for enlargement. we made a series of crucial decisions. they mean that the first round of enlargement negotiations can be concluded in copenhagen by december. however, i would stress that enlargement is far from guaranteed. we still have a huge task ahead of us and a limited amount of time. we are negotiating with 27 countries and we have 37 days to reach a result - nothing is given. but now there is a trail for further negotiations: the presidency and the commission have a firm basis for negotiations until the copenhagen summit, and this creates clarity. it creates clarity for us in the present member states and it creates clarity for the candidate countries. they're not faced with a "fait accompli". we are meeting them with an offer of concrete negotiations and with a call for the last decisive action. there can be no doubt that we in the presidency are going to do this with all our energy and with a tireless determination to achieve results. the presidency had three objectives before the brussels summit: first, we wanted to agree on the basis for the final negotiations with the candidate countries on enlargement. that is to say, decisions on the choice of countries, decisions on the outstanding financial questions and decisions on the last open institutional issues. secondly, we would ensure agreement on a common eu line on the issue of transit between kaliningrad and russia, so that there is a clear basis for negotiations ahead of the eu-russia summit on 11 november. and finally, thirdly, we emphasized the importance of the presidency in carrying out the brussels summit in accordance with the decisions of the seville summit. these decisions mean shorter, more effective and focused meetings of the european council. i am pleased to say that in all three areas we achieved what we wanted. the summit was able to take a form which reflected the spirit and decisions of seville. a short meeting of about 24 hours with a concentrated agenda, which was thoroughly prepared, an agenda which was drawn up in the greatest possible openness. i should like to mention that the annotated agenda for the summit was available on the presidency's website in the weeks leading up to brussels, so that everyone could follow the preparations. i have personally made a great effort to ensure that the brussels summit was as focused and as result-oriented as possible, and i am very pleased with the result. i think we have succeeded in creating some procedures which will hopefully serve as an inspiration for future presidencies. the presidency also achieved its objectives in brussels with regard to kaliningrad. the european council endorsed the detailed conclusions agreed by the foreign ministers on 22 october. the basis for further negotiations with russia is thus secured. the eu's position is clear. we want to find a solution that takes account of russia's problems, while respecting lithuania's sovereignty and the rules of schengen cooperation. (applause from the centre) it is clear that enlargement was the main topic in brussels. the presidency was crucial in setting the framework for the further negotiations with the candidate countries. we made it very clear to everyone that decisions were to be taken now, not in december, and we had concentrated the agenda on the key issues. for these reasons, among others, we took the necessary decisions. i shall not go into the conclusions of the summit in detail. the conclusions are short and clear and speak for themselves, but i would like to highlight the main decisions. the european council endorsed the commission's recommendations on the choice of countries. this means that 10 countries: cyprus, estonia, latvia, lithuania, malta, poland, slovakia, slovenia, the czech republic and hungary will be able to conclude negotiations by the end of the year. as regards bulgaria and romania, we decided to support these two countries in their efforts to reach the 2007 accession target. the copenhagen summit will take concrete decisions on how to strengthen their preparations for membership. the message to bulgaria and romania is clear. the expansion continues. the eu is open to european countries that wish to join and that meet the requirements for membership. we also sent a clear signal to turkey. the european council welcomes the progress made by turkey towards fulfilling the political copenhagen criteria. (applause) we call on turkey to continue the reform process, not least in terms of the actual implementation of the reforms adopted. we will take new decisions on turkey at the copenhagen summit. in connection with the selection of countries, we discussed questions of surveillance and safeguard clauses. the european council also endorsed the commission's proposal in this area, with a single adjustment. we extended the period of application of the special measures from two to three years. the european council also decided on the remaining institutional questions. it was about the adjustments needed in the light of the transition from 15 to hopefully 25 member states. the heads of state or government agreed to the compromise already reached by the presidency at the foreign ministers' meeting on 22 october. this also provides a clear basis for the presidency's negotiations with the applicant countries in this area. the most difficult item on the agenda of the brussels summit was the outstanding financial issues. but we did manage to get a result. we made three crucial decisions. the european council endorsed the commission's proposal for direct agricultural aid: 25% in 2004 and 100% in 2013. the phasing-in will take place within a framework of financial stability. a ceiling is set on the total annual expenditure on market organisations and direct aids in an eu of 25 member states. this expenditure must not exceed the level of 2006 plus 1% per year, which means that if inflation exceeds 1%, there will be a real reduction in agricultural expenditure. we also reached agreement on the level of the overall amount of structural fund assistance to the new member states. the commission has proposed a reduction of eur 23 billion for the period 2004-06, which is smaller than the commission's proposal of eur 25 billion. thirdly, we have settled the question of budgetary compensation. i think it is very important that we have established that no new member state should be put at a lower level in the period from 2004 to 2006 than in 2003. this is an important and real signal to the applicant countries. as regards the main points of the european council meeting, and i would just like to mention in conclusion that the european council also met with the president of the convention on the future of the european union, president valéry giscard d'estaing. he reported on the work of the convention and we will meet again with the president of the convention at the copenhagen summit. 'from copenhagen to copenhagen' - that is the motto of the danish presidency. it is the expression of a vision of being able to contribute to a project and a process of exceptional character, as well as a very concrete ambition to complete a piece of work that has been put in our hands. the brussels summit brought us a decisive step closer to copenhagen, and it also marked the last stop before the copenhagen summit. so what is on the road from brussels to copenhagen? what lies ahead for us in the next few weeks? the answer is hard work. hard work and sustained, intense negotiations. we're already in the middle of it. on 28 october i met the heads of state or government of the applicant countries to give them a personal and direct account of the brussels summit, and the very next day the official discussions began. the decisions of the brussels european council have provided a basis for further negotiations. but it is clear that if we are to achieve a result in time, it will require a great deal of effort and a willingness to compromise on the part of all those involved, member states as well as candidate countries. the european parliament and the commission have been strong driving forces in the enlargement process. on behalf of the danish presidency, i would like to thank the european parliament and the commission once again for the good cooperation and to encourage us to join forces in the coming weeks to achieve our common objective of completing the first round of enlargement negotiations in copenhagen by december, and i look forward to taking part in the great enlargement debate in this parliament in two weeks' time on 19 november. mr president, i hope that together we can send a strong message to the peoples and governments of europe that the time has come to conclude 10 years of work, that the time has come to open the door to our common future, that the time has come to take the decisive decision on enlargement. (applause from the centre)
president of the commission. mr president of the parliament, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, the results of the brussels european council are now known to all. it was a well-organised council, well-managed by the danish presidency, which allowed us to remove all the obstacles that separated us from the decision on enlargement. so let me thank the danish prime minister publicly and warmly for making enlargement the top priority of his six-month presidency. we have been given a mandate to conclude accession negotiations with ten countries by the end of the year. in doing so, the council has made a great gesture of openness, trust and recognition of the efforts made over the years by the governments, parliaments and civil society of the candidate countries. we are therefore extremely pleased with this decision. it was a council where all the governments came closer to the goal which i continue to call historic. i would also like to stress the solidarity shown in brussels towards the applicant countries which still need financial aid to catch up with the rest of the continent. brussels is the fruit of a process which, day after day, has allowed us to refute the most pessimistic forecasts and to remove, one by one, all the main obstacles to european unification. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. the european council also supported the commission's recommendations for bulgaria and romania and welcomed the objective of accession in 2007 proposed by these countries. we shall therefore propose the measures necessary for a new timetable and for strengthening financial assistance, on which the european council itself can take its decisions in copenhagen. in addition, our periodic report on turkey was welcomed: the european council in copenhagen will decide on the next stage of the country's application on this basis. the elections which have just taken place in turkey make it all the more necessary to decide what directions to take for this new phase. we have no time to lose and we presented the conclusions of the brussels council to all the representatives of the applicant countries last week. it should be stressed that we do not propose to our candidate partners a take-or-leave package, but acceptable compromises are still possible. the european council has given a mandate to negotiate the remaining institutional and financial chapters, and has generally accepted our proposals. as regards the allocation of the structural funds, the proposal of eur 23 billion is lower than the commission's initial proposal. however, this is a substantial sum, in line with the economic and social objectives of enlargement. finally, it was thanks to the efforts of all parties that the all-important agreement on agriculture was reached. after copenhagen, the enlargement process will pass through athens, where the accession treaties will be signed in april 2003. in this way, we will be able to achieve the long-standing objective of the participation of the new candidate countries in the 2004 european elections. enlargement is thus becoming a reality. of course, there are some issues that need to be followed and monitored closely over the next two years, even after the new countries have joined the union, as we have indicated in our report. i remind you that we will be reporting to the european council six months before accession on the progress made. in addition to a general economic safeguard clause, two specific clauses will be invoked in the event of the new member states failing to honour the commitments they have made during the negotiations in the fields of the internal market, justice and home affairs. however, these are not issues that can block the whole process. the fifth enlargement will therefore be at the heart of our action next year. alongside the various formal steps required by the accession process, we will focus on the adjustment of the financial perspective for the period 2004-06, as well as on the preparatory work within the commission and the other institutions. in particular, we will have to ensure that the acquis communautaire is fully and effectively applied throughout the union's legal area from the first day of accession. more generally, it is essential to reflect on the new dimension, quantitative but above all qualitative, in which we will be operating after enlargement. we are entering a reality of 25 countries and we are pursuing a new project of society for the european continent, a project which requires a strong popular support. the process of western european integration, the small european identity, is finally becoming a project of continental unification. enlarging the union means proposing a new philosophy of international relations. the eu's external relations are also affected by the political situation in the candidate countries. unity and multiplicity, community of values and differences will be even more the constitutive features of our union. europe itself, with its recent history, is the recognition of identities and differences; the enlarged europe will be the first attempt to build a new kind of citizenship on a continental scale and will be the strongest multiplier of citizens' rights. however, at the very moment when we are completing this great common undertaking, when we are achieving the unification of the european continent by consensus, we must also send a clear message to those states which are not part of this process but which look to europe with immense expectations: i am referring to the balkan region. we must tell them that the doors to europe are open and that we hope to have them on our side as soon as possible. we must be clear and unambiguous on this point, on the prospect of accession. we must also make it clear that the timeframe for achieving this objective depends on their determination to complete the reform agenda necessary to become full members of the union. our task will be to support this effort by defining a common agenda that provides them with tools and resources and by making full use of the potential of the association and stabilisation processes. enlargement also means laying the foundations for a more definitive arrangement of the relations of the new, greater europe with its immediate neighbours. the enlargement strategy and the neighbourhood policy are in fact closely linked, and we must be able to show that enlargement does not mean excluding those who are not included in enlargement; enlargement is not about building walls or barriers. we must therefore begin to define more specifically what we mean by a special relationship with the regions neighbouring the enlarged union, from russia to the mediterranean. the solution for kaliningrad, for example, is an important element in a relationship to be developed and consolidated with the russian federation. enlargement is also a great opportunity to reinterpret our role in the world and to invent a new kind of political regionalism, reorganizing the spaces of our continent. in this new perspective, however, it is all the more urgent to tackle with determination and courage the fundamental questions which the european convention is debating in these months. the consensus reached on financial matters does not make it any less necessary to reflect on the community budget, its transparency, its comprehensibility and its suitability to meet the new challenges we are facing. we must therefore define and specify the nature of the union's resources better and strengthen the role of this house. the difficulties associated with the ratification of the treaty of nice, which fortunately are now behind us, must not make us forget the imperative of democratic participation, simplification and greater legitimacy which we must pursue through institutional reforms. the work done so far by the convention and, in particular, the recent document presented by its president, represent an important contribution and a reference for future proposals. i shall be able to speak on these matters to this house shortly. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission. - mr president of parliament, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. i would also like to begin by expressing my thanks to the presidency and parliament. the joint efforts of the three institutions have made it possible to achieve a breakthrough in the negotiations and we can now have the firm expectation that this largest current project within the european union will be completed in copenhagen in december as planned. the political momentum has been even stronger after brussels than it has been before, and if anything has really been visible at this council, it has been the ever-growing common will to make this project of european unification a success. i'd like to brief you on the next steps. the president of the council has already pointed out to you that we wasted no time and informed the candidate countries of the results on monday last week, and the day after that we started another round of negotiations which has now been concluded. the aim of this round of negotiations was to identify the remaining open positions of the candidate countries. we now have a complete picture of everything and every single point that needs to be settled in the negotiations, and here is the good news and the bad news. the bad news first: there is a lot more on the table than you could have expected or should have expected. the good news is that there is nothing that cannot be done within the time frame, so the timetable seems realistic to conclude a second round of negotiations by the general council on 18 november, and to settle many, many of the outstanding issues. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt a decision on the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. let me conclude with a political remark which is very important to me. it will be essential to conduct the negotiations in an extremely political manner in the few weeks that remain. we cannot now negotiate in the highly technical way of the past - often with a lot of questions and answers - but we are really talking about clear political priorities and political decisions. i must say clearly that in the past we have put a lot of pressure on the candidate countries in the negotiations, and the european union's positions have not always been based on a deep understanding of the candidates' problems, but very often they have been based on its own needs. i would simply like to remind you that not only must public opinion in the member states be taken into account when it comes to putting together the package for the final negotiations, but we must also remember that the governments and parliaments in the candidate countries must convince their public opinion that it is a good thing to join the european union. let me also point out that the transformation process we have seen in the countries of central and eastern europe has produced quite different results. people in the countries of transformation enjoy freedoms they did not know before, they enjoy democracy and human rights. but we should not overlook the fact that the economic benefits and the stability benefits that have been brought about by the transformations have been largely on our side. we have had the great economic benefit of these countries' transformation into market economies, and this transformation has been accompanied by severe social hardship for the people, and it still is. it is now time to send a clear and strong signal that we also recognise the enormous achievements of the societies there over the last decade by pushing through the final phase of the negotiations with a certain amount of generosity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. nothing that the future member states want is fundamental to us, but it can be fundamental to them and their ability to get the necessary support, and that is why i very much hope that we will all together - the council, the commission, the parliament - bring the necessary flexibility to make the project a success, not only for us as politicians, but especially for those who are really concerned, for the people in the member states and in the future member states. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! i think that there has rarely been a question or a solution to a problem on which the presidency of the council, the council of ministers as a whole, the commission and we as parliament have acted so closely and so jointly. the question of the membership of the central european countries - malta and cyprus, of course, but especially the central european countries, because of their communist past - they deserve to be documented here as part of this great historical unity. i am very pleased, mr president-in-office, that you have put your remarks in this historical context, and i think we must do so. but i would also add that europe will not have passed its test until the outcome of the convention on a european constitutional treaty is equally shared by the governments, the commission and the european parliament, so that europe has well-established institutional structures in the 21st century, and it will be the great task of the council of ministers, above all, to support a community model so that this enlarged community of 25 - and later even more - states also has a solid foundation. i would urge you to do so today. (applause from the centre) we very much welcome the fact that the way is now open for the ten central european countries plus malta and cyprus, that the mandate is on the table and that the hard work of the commission and the governments can now continue so that we can really achieve, mr president-in-office, what you said: 'from copenhagen to copenhagen!' and then you can say on 12 and 13 december: 'the treaties are ready for signature.' i wish you that and i wish us all that for the future of europe. we would like to encourage bulgaria and romania to continue their efforts. our group is in close contact with both countries at the moment, but they still have a long way to go. as regards turkey, i would say quite frankly that there are also different positions in our group, which is a very democratic group - and this could not be different between the christian democrats and the conservatives - on turkey's membership of the european union, but we are in agreement, and i say this very clearly, mr president-in-office, that we do not think the time has come to set a date for the opening of negotiations in copenhagen in december. we welcome the fact that the two parties which have now won the elections in turkey are european-oriented, but we must also acknowledge - and this is a democratic deficit - that 45% of the voters in turkey are not represented in parliament at all. i would remind you that the leader of the justice and development party, mr erdogan, cannot even become prime minister because he is accused of being unable to be party leader at all. this is an absurd situation. i would also like to remind you, and i ask for your indulgence, that this concerns my nationality, but it is a european matter that party foundations from the federal republic of germany, not only those of our party but also those of the social democrats, the greens and the liberals, are being accused of spying in turkey. this is such an absurd process and i ask that you take note of it and also take it as an example that turkey has yet to develop very much. (applause from the centre) i am glad, mr schulz, that the social democrats are increasingly agreeing with my comments on turkey, ... (interruption)... and i hope also on other issues. we have common positions on the chechen question, mr cohn-bendit, but i will come to that in a moment, and if our group really sees itself as the heart of parliament on these issues, then we welcome that. we did not understand that it was necessary in brussels to put the whole agricultural question on the table now. we have, thank god, got the hang of it, but we have not understood that a large member state of the european union has put this agricultural question at the centre of its attention, and sometimes i have the impression that mr daul and mr goepel will say more about these questions, and we do not know what has been decided there. i hope that it will come out so that you know what you really decided. i would like to ask the council presidency and the council - the commission is on our side on these issues, otherwise we sometimes criticise the commission, but that is not the subject today - to involve parliament in all the financial consequences for the present - and james elles is our expert - and also for the future financial perspective, so that institutional preparations can also be made here. it's going to kaliningrad. i would urge you, mr president-in-office, not to give the impression that we are making concessions to a large european country outside the european union on the back of this future smaller member country. the dignity and sovereignty of lithuania are also at stake, and we should always bear this in mind. the last point: we shall be discussing chechnya with mr solana shortly. it is really sad to read in major european newspapers that the former commissioner for human rights under president yeltsin, sergei kowaljov, said yesterday in a major newspaper that the barbaric actions of the russian military in chechnya are continuing today as they were a few years ago. we say no to all forms of terrorism, including in moscow, but we must not equate terror and terrorists with the people of chechnya! we are asking you, at the summit, which unfortunately is not taking place in copenhagen but - because russia wanted it to be so - in brussels - well, you have yielded to the pressure, but now it is about the substance - that you really have the courage to find a clear language, that we must negotiate in chechnya, that the people there have a future while preserving their identity within the framework of the russian federation, and here i would like not only a diplomatic language from the heads of state and government, but also a toughness in the matter, because as a democratic union we have an obligation to stand up for human rights in europe and in the world. i wish you the best of luck. the danish presidency has done an excellent job so far, which is another example of the fact that you do not have to be a big country to succeed in europe. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to return to the announcement by the president-in-office that new decisions on turkey are to be expected in copenhagen. i would like to make four comments on this, which i hope you, mr president-in-office, will take to heart. firstly, the commission has been silent in its last report on the timing of the possible start of negotiations - i must be very precise. he's got his reasons. in other words, the commission sees, and i believe the overwhelming majority in parliament sees, that at this stage there is not enough progress to be able to reach concrete agreements with turkey on the opening of negotiations. secondly, we have already had a situation where a number of members who are still here today have said in this parliament that if turkey is denied the customs union, it will inevitably be driven into the arms of the islamic fundamentalists! the head of government at the time was tansu ciller. she went around the country with this argument and said, for god's sake, give me a pro-european perspective, otherwise the islamists will win the election! six months later, this lady formed a coalition with mr. erbakan. a very credible policy! thirdly, the whole line of these politicians - yilmaz, my colleague cem, whom i respect very much, mrs ciller in particular - has been dramatically voted out of office in turkey and replaced by a political line which has hitherto had a completely different perspective. and now we are suddenly in the situation where it is suddenly said: yes, those who were pro-european before, who were always called the guardians of the pro-european perspective, they have been voted out and their opponents are now in government, but they are now getting immediately what we have denied to the others for years! this can't be happening! fourthly, i would ask you to consider the following. no party has been more determined to reject the reforms than the present acp. in fact, during the election campaign they explicitly rejected a whole series of reform measures which we had called for. now we are all politicians, and if we were all measured every day by our campaign statements, we would all be poor! i know you did. (calling) yes, especially you! but every government has the right to be judged not by what it says but by what it does. in copenhagen the current turkish government will have been in office for just six weeks. give them a little more time to be measured by their actions. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! mr president, i would like to request that the speech which mr schulz has just given be delivered to the german chancellor and his party leader today! (cheers and applause) i think that this is the right way to ensure that we do not speak like this in parliament and then suddenly take a different position in the council of ministers for whatever reason. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in iraq, and we are therefore in favour of the european parliament's position on the matter. i think it must be absolutely clear on this point that the credibility of the whole accession process depends on the criteria being applied in exactly the same way in each country and on the timetable being respected. (applause from the centre) i would like to congratulate you very much, mr president-in-office, on the work you and your government have done so far, including in preparing for the enlargement of the european union. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. the kaliningrad question is also on the agenda. i think there are two things that need to be connected: on the one hand, the enlargement of the european union and nato means that bridges must be built to the important country of russia; the european union must also show that it is the protector of the small and that the dignity and sovereignty of the small countries must be taken into account in the arrangements made in connection with the kaliningrad question if we are to become a credible union. i wish you both the best of luck in this incredibly difficult task, mr president! (applause from the centre)
mr president, commissioner fischler, you are very well known. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, and this is the subtle difference, we are now talking about a reform of the common agricultural policy from 2007, which means that until 2006 we will continue with the current policy and from 2007 we will continue to operate agriculture in europe with a reformed policy. mr fischler, you must now assume that your proposals will no longer be feasible in terms of time and certainly also in terms of content if the negotiated brussels compromise of the heads of state and government on direct agricultural payments is interpreted correctly. in other words, it is clear that the berlin summit agreements will remain valid until 2006 and, as a result of these recent decisions, will provide planning certainty for farmers in the european union until at least 2013. this means that the candidate countries can safely expect to see direct payments increase from 2004 onwards. this was also the content of the proposals for financing the agricultural direct payment for the enlargement countries presented by the commission in december 2001. however, and this was also clear to us at the time, the 100% compensation payments in 2013 for all eu member states no longer correspond to the 100% of the financial performance in 2006. it is obvious to everyone that this will be less. this is something that every farmer in an enlarged european union needs to know. in order to prevent any miscalculation, we as christian democrats/european democrats are calling, among other things, in a motion for a resolution tabled by all the political groups in the european parliament, for the full budgetary powers and full co-decision in the agricultural sector to be given to this parliament.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the tight timetable of certain deadlines is certainly not something that can be done, but if you, as president-in-office, had told the members that commissioner fischler had to be on a plane every now and then for these reasons, we could have avoided this confrontation, because then everyone would have understood. but if you simply say that this is the case now, you will provoke the resistance of the members, and rightly so, because that is an insult to dignity! we do not simply want to be told what to do, but we want to be part of that decision, we want to know what it is about. if you take that into account, i think we can be reasonable with each other.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the reform process initiated by the 1992 agrarian reform and continued by agenda 2000 is to be continued and the changing conditions adapted. the commission's proposals provide a basis for the post-2007 discussion, as a number of issues and problems, as correctly described in the paper, remain to be clarified. the common agricultural policy has also been successful. and what has been successful in her must be defended. the decisions taken by the heads of government in brussels to deal with future eu agricultural policy expenditure by including the ten applicant countries in the financial framework will, i am convinced, lead to major disputes. in this respect, the motion for a resolution is merely a snapshot and not a document of reform. the freezing of the agricultural budget from 2007 onwards at the level of 2006 means an annual reduction in agricultural subsidies for farmers in the old member states - hardly or only with difficulty feasible in the 2003 election year. there will be no agreement on the farmers' financing of the whole cost of the extension. there is a strong suspicion that this is the way it is supposed to happen. the president-in-office of the council mentioned in her speech that there are proposals for the dairy sector. i ask you, madam president-in-office, when do you think these proposals will be implemented? before 2008 or not?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by congratulating our committee chairman, mr daul, on what he has presented here. this is not just a resolution by mr daul, but by the whole of the committee on agriculture and, i hope, by the whole of the european parliament tomorrow. your achievement is that you have brought together the different currents in the committee on agriculture, and your achievement is that you are hereby documenting the european parliament's claim to have a say in the reform. madam president, please tell the council that. the european parliament wants to be involved in the decision-making process. it wants to be involved in the decision-making process on the content and the design of the content, and it wants to be involved in the decision-making process on the financial design. we do not want to see these isolated decisions at the level of the intergovernmental conference, where we are then told how much money is going into agricultural policy without even making a link between what is needed in terms of substantive reforms and the financial impact. we want co-decision in the field of agricultural policy, including finance. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am glad that we have the support of the commission and that we have someone in commissioner fischler who will bring the reforms forward in the interests of this parliament.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the mid-term evaluation of the european agricultural policy is a subject of great debate in the farming community of the european union. i welcome the timely presentation of this assessment by the commission and i expressly thank it for its considerations which are far in the future. i would like to stress and reiterate what the commissioner has promised us, that we see this document as a basis for discussion, to which we are all not only invited but called upon to participate. the commission is proposing a broad approach to reform. there is still a great deal of need for clarification and discussion on many issues. the summit in brussels on 24 and 25 october set the financial framework for the period up to 2013. we must now set the course in time for the formulation of the agricultural policy in the enlarged community. the motion for a resolution by mr joseph daul was voted on as a compromise by all the political groups in the committee on agriculture after lengthy discussions and many amendments. i thank joseph daul for his excellent work and also for his willingness to compromise. i therefore ask the house to put this motion for a resolution to the vote. we don't have to go into too much detail today. we hope that we will have sufficient opportunities to do so in the future. i would like to make a few important points in the short time i have. the decoupling of aid and the reduction of bureaucracy sound tempting. however, i cannot see both as practical. it is about money for farm families, and it must also be about fair, measurable criteria for distribution. the commission's proposal to build the future of agricultural policy on historical values does not seem to me to be forward-looking. in the case of commitments, commitments and audits, the commission must propose a simple and efficient procedure for these audits. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i hope that we will have the opportunity in december to discuss the specific proposals of the commission on market organizations. (applause from the centre)
mr president, madam president of the council! first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr joseph daul. i welcome, as do many of my predecessors, the idea that the european agricultural model should be extended to include multifunctional agriculture in the enlarged union. this requires qualified external protection, and within the eu we still need to regulate the markets. but the generally positive assessment of franco-german unification in the run-up to eu enlargement does leave me with some questions. taxpayers and farmers now know how much money is to be spent by 2013, but they do not know what it is for. germany's net contributor position will deteriorate only because the german chancellor has agreed to fix the agreed financial framework for the agricultural policies of the 25 countries from 2006 to 2013. the necessary reduction in compensation payments after 2006 - we have heard this repeatedly, including from the commissioner - means that less money is going to be returned to agriculture as a whole, including and especially in germany, and i must say this in a very critical way. besides, as a friend of the german farmers, our chancellor is not known anyway! the net contribution of eu farmers to the financing of enlargement was estimated by the agriculture commissioner at eur 500 million in 2013. this is the difference between the additional costs of direct payments to new members and the increase in agricultural expenditure approved by the eu summit. i note that before this calculation by the commission, european farmers have to bear a large part of the burden of enlargement. the commissioner for agriculture has repeatedly stressed the positive aspect of the fact that the brussels summit did not limit the funds for rural development, i.e. for the second pillar. but he can also give us the answer ...
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have listed a great many things in the joost lagendijk report and we cannot comment on everything. i would just like to say at the outset that i fully support it and i can emphasize this again on behalf of my group. we have different speeds in the region down there. some already have an agreement, such as macedonia and croatia; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. joost has listed the deficits. but we also look with satisfaction to albania, which has managed to remedy the fraudulent elections of 2001 by electing a consensus president, which was not expected by most - including the commission. we now wish to see negotiations on this process started as soon as possible, although we know that it cannot be completed quickly, because there is still a lot of homework to be done. i am not going to go into the details of the situation in bosnia-herzegovina, but i will say that bosnia-herzegovina suffers from the squaring of the circle. i am referring to the dayton agreement. i would just like to say that, for example, 67% of the entire budget of bosnia-herzegovina goes to the salaries of ministers, of over 120 ministers, who exist only because they are, so to speak, based on the dayton agreement. something has to happen here, and the last election was a wake-up call. in serbia and montenegro, the president and the prime minister are getting fat instead of fighting together for the country. montenegro and serbia now have to find a common path to europe, and the solana proposal, however small, is the best and only way at the moment. as far as kosovo is concerned, i can only say - i was there again just last week - that we must be able to ensure that there is coexistence and that the serbian enclaves become unnecessary. we have a lot of common problems. there are ethnic tensions in some countries, there is the insufficient return of refugees, there is the fight against human trafficking, which is insufficient, there is corruption. one thing is clear, there can be no retreat from our commitment. this is the litmus test of our credibility! as joost said, we need an exact idea of what we are going to do in this region in the near future. (applause from the centre)
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. economic and social cohesion is at the heart of the european union. it offers the possibility of a sustainable, harmonious and at the same time policy-oriented development of the union as a whole. the debate is now about the european union of the future, a union of 25 or even 27 member states. the idea of integration of this union will only be credible if there is also a willingness to share responsibility for the european social model in solidarity. we must assume that the idea of europe is valid for its citizens, regardless of their regional or social status, and is tackled as a common political task for all member states, that all citizens are given equal opportunities and at the same time are not living at the expense of the next generation. it is an illusion, however, to think that we have a lot more money available for this task than we do now. it is therefore our task to develop a concept which works according to the basic principles mentioned and at the same time manages to get by with relatively equal financial shares. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. one group says we have to argue now that everyone is fine, and then everything will be fine. the others think everything is fine as long as my constituency does not lose its privileges. they are calling for solidarity for their constituency, but they are not prepared for solidarity between us. there are others who are not happy with the european social model anyway, and for them this debate is just the right thing to do. and then there are those who don't dare to tell the truth and face the consequences. the truth is that we have to start with the concept now if we want to give the regions the first payments on 1 january 2007. then no one can talk their way out of it, we know two years is not long enough. the central question is, as everyone knows, how do we define the poorest areas of the european union? the main idea of economic and social cohesion is that where there is the greatest need for catch-up, there is the greatest flow of support. i think that the idea of common solidarity is being undermined by the constant invention of new criteria to ensure that the constituency in question receives the support that is actually intended for the poorest regions. besides, such thinking is short-term. the opening up of the previously valid and recognised criterion of 75% of the average gdp of the union, if lower than this, to the poorest regions - has the consequence that everyone gets less money, that the phasing-out is flat, that special regional support for the unemployed or rural areas would then just not be possible. it would also mean that areas which are really disadvantaged, such as those in the east, would simply be left to hang on to the drip for longer. and it can happen that constituencies that you have to work for today suddenly become net payers. the diw study says that would happen in three years. the worst consequence of this concept and this short-term thinking would be that solidarity would be cancelled. we have nothing, we have no concept, and economic and social cohesion is a mere speck. i come from an objective 1 region which, if the 75% criterion is strictly maintained, will lose its statistical status, and yet i am convinced that a generous phasing-out will enable it to solve its development problems. if we in parliament, with our structural funds concept, set a cornerstone here, with clear boundaries for the objective 1 area for the future union, we are on the one hand obliging the commission to follow us and on the other hand challenging the council to do so. i would like to have a roll-call vote on this tomorrow. there are two things we can agree on. the only principle we could agree on was a programme and a fund. this is an effective approach to simplifying the management of the structural funds. we also agreed to support the commission's proposal for a tripartite agreement with the member states and the regions on the use of the structural funds, so as to allow local actors to participate. i hope that this will help to promote an efficient and successful approach and not jeopardize solidarity in europe. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i think that this report, for which i would like to thank the rapporteur very warmly, was about refining the report we adopted at the beginning of the year, namely that by mr musotto. it was a question of being a little more specific about the direction parliament wanted to take. i am glad to say that we have not been able to achieve this, because we have again included too much in this report, but i still think it is a good report. i do not see the whole thing as black as the rapporteur seems to do. we have reiterated in this report some of the points we have made in the past, such as the rejection of any renationalisation of structural policy. we have also made it clear again that there must be some reduction in the regions which are currently benefiting from the aid and that we do not want to throw sand in the eyes of anyone there. but we have also just succeeded in clarifying a number of things in this report. i am also very much in disagreement with my predecessor on this point, because i think it is very important that the commission now makes proposals on how to proceed with objective ii. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the same applies to the community initiatives. this is also important, so that we can create clarity or at least make a direction visible. what will happen to the border regions? what will happen in the cities? what will happen to the rural areas? i would also like to stress two points which are very important to me. firstly, the start of programming must be chosen in such a way that the funds are actually available on 1 january 2007 and, equally importantly, we must achieve greater coherence, and that is where we must also send the signal to the commission that it should finally make concrete proposals on how to achieve greater coherence between the various policies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must decide on the basis of concrete proposals, and the commission is now doing that.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. although it is only an interim report to be drawn up every three years, it should not only take stock of the situation but also give a view of the next planning period. it is right that we should not go into details and give figures, but we should identify the main points and clarify the key issues in good time. one such key issue is the 0.45% of eu gdp for cohesion policy, which must not be exceeded even in the context of eu enlargement. one such central issue is the regions as a reference for cohesion policy tasks and not national criteria. if you want something different, you're going about it on the wrong foot. one such key issue is the focus of support on the less-favoured regions in an enlarged eu with clear, transparent, accountable criteria for the concept of 'poor' regions. this can depend solely on the 75% criterion. all the other factors used as a basis for assessment are not clearly calculable and open the door to arbitrariness. this is the case even for a criterion such as unemployment, which is not uniformly defined across the eu and therefore has to lead to miscalculations. the priority for supporting less favoured regions must be to those regions which generate less than 75% of eu gdp. but even for those areas which are only raised above the 75% threshold by statistics as a result of enlargement, i.e. only counted as such, a more generous phasing-out must be introduced. we want regions to be given more support the closer they are to the 75% threshold. i agree with the rapporteur who has tabled an amendment to this effect.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. the kangaroo group in the european parliament has made a major contribution to the completion of the european internal market. many of the members speaking today are members of the kangaroo group. this group is presenting an initiative today which calls for the development of the present internal market into a new stage, a genuine european home market. we have spoken to many people in the business world in recent months to analyse where and how far we are in the completion of the european single market, and we are presenting this result again today. first of all, the european single market is a success story. the opening of the frontiers between the member states of the european community has fundamentally changed the reality of europe. the harmonization of the conditions for registration has considerably improved the competitiveness of european firms, and new instruments have been created - i am referring only to the european trade mark office - which make it very easy for small and mediumsized enterprises in particular to gain good access to the european market. but at the same time we have found that in many areas there is no single market. we have 15 home markets within a european single market which is not really working. the first is financial services, as we all know. this is true in the life sciences, pharmaceuticals and other fields where there is no single market, and it is true in the defence sector where there are initial hesitations about the establishment of a common policy and a common single market. last but not least, the transition from the single market to the home market requires that we have a common european currency in all the countries of the european union - and i say this to my colleague malcolm harbour - and this development also requires that we start from a common economic model. i think that's the social market economy. we now call on the commission to develop a coherent approach to usher in this new phase in the development of the european domestic market.
president of the council. - mr president, i am very pleased that so many good and interesting points have been made in the debate today. as i mentioned in my opening remarks, we are taking decisions jointly on many proposals which have an impact on the functioning of the internal market and on the competitiveness of the union. it is therefore also important that we continue to debate the general issues of the internal market, not least to focus on the areas where the internal market does not work, often to the detriment of the eu's competitiveness. i have noted the views expressed today. many have given examples of areas where the single market is still lagging behind. i can agree with these views on several points and i would like to add the following comments to them: first of all, i agree with commissioner bolkestein and mr karas that the timely implementation of directives is crucial for the functioning of the internal market - for the benefit of both citizens and businesses. i support the commission's efforts to monitor this area. the implementation of directives is a top priority in the council, especially in the competitiveness council, which is responsible for legislation on the internal market. we must meet the targets set by the heads of state or government at the stockholm european council and then in barcelona, namely to have implemented 98.5% of the directives by the spring summit in 2003. i can only share the widespread concern, particularly with regard to the community patent, which many people have mentioned today. this is a very, very important matter. the failure to make progress in the negotiations at the council meeting on 21 may made it necessary to reconsider the strategy for the community patent. it was concluded that the judiciary should be the focus of attention during the danish presidency, and we have therefore carried out discussions on the judiciary on the basis of a report from the commission which we received in september. the question of jurisdiction, together with other key parts of the proposal for a community patent, constitutes a so-called package solution, so that nothing is finally adopted until everything has been adopted. in this context, i have of course noted parliament's position on the judiciary. we have included parliament's proposals in the consideration of possible solutions. the community patent is a high priority for the danish presidency, but despite great efforts it has not been possible to create the necessary basis for a comprehensive compromise proposal. the countries are still far too far apart and i would like to say to the members here that i too am very impatient on this matter. the council meeting on competitiveness on 14 november will therefore be about taking stock of the negotiations and clarifying how we can move forward on this very important matter. the council has now also succeeded in reaching political agreement on both procurement directives. the proposals are currently undergoing technical examination so that they can be sent to parliament as a whole. a number of parliament's proposals have been incorporated into the text, including the possibility of taking environmental and social considerations into account when awarding public contracts. i hope that parliament will look favourably on the proposals so that we can get the new, improved procurement rules in the eu as soon as possible. with regard to the internal market in services in particular, i would point out that the council is expected to adopt conclusions on the barriers report at the council meeting on competitiveness on 14 and 15 november 2002. the council gave political support to the commission's follow-up to the conclusions and a work programme was drawn up committing the member states and the commission to a number of deliveries in 2003. the commission will, inter alia, launch a legislative initiative on a system for removing barriers. member states undertake to actively comply with and implement the judgments of the court. i would like to thank you in conclusion for the inspiring debate. the danish presidency attaches the highest priority to the completion of the internal market. this is the basis for living up to our lisbon vision. we look forward to continued good cooperation with the european parliament in order to complete the internal market - not least because of enlargement.
commission. – mr president, thank you for giving me the opportunity to reply to all the members that have spoken this morning. may i begin by agreeing with mr harbour when he said that lord cockfield played an important role in constructing the internal market. this is perfectly true. he added that this happened with the support of the british government, and may i say that it is all the more regrettable that lord cockfield did not return to brussels as a commissioner for a second period. mr harbour commented on services. indeed, since our economies are roughly 70% service-based, he is quite right to raise the point. this point has also been mentioned by others. in reply, it cannot be right that companies are subjected to a number of requirements which they have already fulfilled in their home country. to do so would add considerable cost to doing business in the european union and would not be compatible with calls for less red tape. it is vital for member states to press ahead with action to modernise and simplify their legal framework. in many cases, the removal of barriers requires much improved administrative cooperation between member states or, where necessary, harmonisation. that action will necessitate involvement of member states, and in the light of the report on services, the commission intends to propose both a legislative initiative to remove unnecessary legal barriers, and also non-legislative actions to address non-regulatory barriers. the commission will certainly keep this uppermost in its mind and intends to return to parliament as the occasion requires. i also agree with mr harbour that the transposition deficit, which is now creeping upwards again, is a most serious matter. may i appeal to all members of parliament to use such influence as they have with their home governments to stress the absolute need for a transposition deficit that is as close as possible, if not identical to, the 1.5% which was set as an aim by the european council. mrs berger mentioned the need to look after and improve the mobility of employees. i agree with her and that is one of the reasons why the commission is at pains to see to it that in the area of pension funds, when employees contribute to a certain pension fund in their own country, they can then go and work in another country and contribute to the same pension fund, retaining their rights to tax deductibility on their contributions. recently, there was a case involving a citizen of finland who contributed to a pension fund which was not finnish. the tax deductibility of the contributions was not allowed by the finnish authorities. after recourse to the european court of justice in luxembourg, this error was redressed and we now have the possibility of retaining such fiscal advantages. that is a good thing in defence of the mobility of employees. mrs berger also drew attention, as did mrs wallis, to article 95, which is one of the bases, if not the basis, of the internal market. there have been noises in and around the european convention that article 95 should be amended. the latest comments that have reached me on that point assure me that this is not the intention and that the convention does not want to change article 95, which would be a very bad thing. mr maccormick drew my attention to services of general interest. it is obviously a general term but what is meant are public services which not only at national, but often also at regional or local level, have until now been shielded from competition. the commission is favour of liberalisation. i would like to make the distinction between liberalisation and privatisation. privatisation is not the concern of the commission. in fact, article 295 of the treaty says that nothing in the treaty should have any impact on the ownership of whatever it may be. member states' governments are free, according to the treaty, to nationalise, de-nationalise, privatise, expropriate or whatever. privatisation is not the concern of the european union and is not the concern of the commission. however, liberalisation is indeed our concern. liberalisation means opening up to competition and it is my view that if such services of national interest, otherwise known as network services, are open to competition, the ordinary citizen stands to gain from that. mr rovsing spoke on the community patent and suggested that such patents should be expressed in one language only. he may be right but i know at least one member state which would be strongly opposed to such a proposal. i wish mr rovsing the best of luck in trying to persuade that member state that all patents should be expressed in english. mr karas said mehr tempo statt verzögerung – more speed rather than delay – and i cannot agree more with him. he also said that the stronger our internal market is, the stronger europe's position in the world will be and, of course, he is right. economic clout is necessary for political clout. that is one of the reasons we should all support the internal market. he also agrees with the schutzklausel, the guarantee clause in the accession treaties about the internal market in its widest sense, encompassing energy, transport and so on, not just the areas under my portfolio. an important part of the accession treaties, the guarantee clause works for two years as from entry, but under the guarantee clause, measures may be proposed which go beyond this two-year period. we have the possibility, should the need arise, to impress upon accession countries the need for a period longer than two years. they should do whatever needs to be done to bring them into line with the internal market thus defined. to mr de clercq, who also spoke, perhaps i may answer in the language which we have in common.
- thank you very much, mr bolkestein. we thank you for this analysis. the debate is closed.
- the next item is the report (a5-0342/2002) by mr stockton, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the petition no 395/2001 submitted by the reverend owen, which was declared admissible on the grounds that he was dismissed from his job in a discriminatory manner.
- thank you very much, mr stockton. commissioner, what are we doing now for the church of england, for the reverend owen? can europe help the reverend to stay in office or not?
commission. – mr president, i do not know whether europe can always assist but at least it tries. i would first like to thank the rapporteur and the members of the committee on petitions and the members of the employment and social affairs committee for their excellent work and analysis. as reported by the earl of stockton, reverend owen alleges that his fundamental rights have not been respected and that european directives have either been breached or incorrectly applied by the united kingdom authorities. in his petition, he refers in particular to the fact that he has been discriminated against, contrary to article 13 of the treaty of amsterdam, and contrary to articles 48(2) and 112 of the treaty of rome. he furthermore claims that council directive 91/533/eec concerning information on individual employment conditions has not been properly incorporated into uk law. it is true that we have been dealing with this issue for more than one and a half years and a lot of legal and other work has been done. as mentioned in the commission communication of 13 december 2001 on the case, and in my letter of 11 january 2002 to honourable members ford, cashman and hughes, the commission could not identify any breach of european law, nor any failure by the british government to transpose properly the relevant european legislation into uk law. i do not believe i need to add anything to what i have already communicated in my letter, but i will attempt to explain and analyse some of the aspects of the directives and the articles of the treaties. council directive 91/533/eec applies to every paid employee having a contract or employment relationship defined by the law in force in a member state. it does not, however, provide an eu definition of an employee, which is left to national employment legislation. the united kingdom confirmed that members of the clergy, in respect of their core duties as clergymen, are officeholders and not employees under uk employment law. as clergy are not employees for the purpose of the scope of this directive, it was not necessary to specifically cover or specifically exclude them. as regards the issue of discrimination, article 13 of the ec treaty allows the community to take action but has no direct effect. it does not, therefore, grant individuals any rights which can be enforced by national courts or the european court of justice. directive 2000/78/ec of 27 november 2000 establishes a general principle of prohibition of any direct or indirect discrimination. however, the directive does not need to be transposed by member states until 2 december 2003 so we cannot apply it to this case at present. article 48(2) of the treaty of rome (now article 39(2)) refers to the treatment of workers of different nationalities within a member state, and not to differences in labour law and employment rights between countries. it is therefore not obvious that article 39 is relevant in this case. article 118 of the treaty of rome (now art. 137), which i suppose the reverend had in mind as regards the harmonisation of working conditions, gives the community a number of competences in the social field, including the issue of working conditions. on the basis of these considerations i cannot identify any breach of european law nor any failure by the british government to transpose the relevant european legislation. i hope that this clarifies the issue.
- thank you very much, commissioner. so the reverend won't get much help from you.
- thank you very much, mr perry. let me make a personal remark: it is indeed remarkable that a european parliament should take the time to deal with the problems of an individual citizen. but that is the very essence of democracy: the fact that every citizen has the opportunity to draw the attention of a large parliament to his personal problem. thank you for bringing this to my attention.
commission. – mr president, i think we all agree that god has no employees and there are no labour market rules in our holy books. of course, he has left us the task of organising our labour market and of course clergymen have their civil and social rights. i would like to make two points. the first one concerns the definition of employees. this is a very difficult and sensitive issue, and we know that in the majority of directives the member states are left to define what employees are. there are many problems, and, as mr hughes has already said, we are moving forward with amendments to two directives in order to define, in a more effective way, the protection of employees and the definition of an employee. i would like to refer to the questions mentioned in lord stockton's report. we have carried out a new study which concerns economically-dependent workers, and a public hearing will be organised with the committee on employment and social affairs. we believe that after this discussion and after the report, the commission could draw some new conclusions in the light of the results. this is why i believe that there is always an opportunity after an individual case to move forward and to take into account the particular needs of groups of workers across europe.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place at 11 a.m. (the sitting was suspended at 10.44 a.m. and resumed at 11 a.m.)
- mr president, i have to go. there was agreement on an oral amendment which now reiterates its call for a negotiated solution and urges the council to take a strong political initiative in this sense. the rest is off.
- mr president, i have to go. i would like to table an oral amendment to paragraph 21. i will give the reasons in advance. the text as it stands now might give the impression that the farmers want to keep the margin of manoeuvre, namely 20 billion euros, for themselves in the second pillar. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in order to clear up this misunderstanding, i now table the following oral amendment: 'considers that the commission's proposals cannot be implemented under the current interinstitutional agreement and that a revision of the financial perspective is necessary in order to reallocate part of the resources from the first to the second pillar'. then, as a corollary, 'this is in the light of the fact that the community budget as a whole remains well below the revenue ceiling'. i hope that's the way it goes.
mr president, a quick word on the tanker accident off the galician coast. this is another terrible, tragic accident, but it certainly is not the last we have heard of. a few days ago in lisbon a representative of the commission spoke on the subject of emsa - the european maritime safety agency - and also raised the concept of a european environmental coast guard. this is a demand we have been making for ten years, but we have not yet got very far. i also want to prevent something similar to what is happening in germany. similarly, we set up a crash command a year ago, which has not yet been put into effect. the newspaper said this weekend that you're looking for three different locations and then you want to pick the best location. you know, this is more than critical to the population, and i can only ask you not to allow ourselves such faux pas, at least within the european framework.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the protection of freedom of information, freedom of expression and the diversity of opinions are central concerns of the european union. it is one of our fundamental values and one which we hope will be given prominence by the convention in our common constitution. the european parliament has therefore been dealing with these issues intensively over the past few years, measuring their implementation against the actual developments in the european union and the member states. i do not think that parliament has slept. i would like to mention not only the year 1997, but also what we all agreed in 2000 in our opinion on the fundamental issues of the communication and information society in the european union. it is also worth noting our joint opinion on the revision of the television directive in 2001. we have not let up on this point. but we must also be realistic about the state of affairs. the result so far is clear and unambiguous. we have no choice but to differentiate. media markets are still largely national markets. this is clear and obvious in the print media. secondly, the electronic media sector of television is still predominantly national. thirdly, we must see that development has continued. the electronic media, particularly where digital technology is used, are increasingly developing across borders. we must focus on this issue and examine very carefully the implications of this development for the safeguarding of freedom of expression and information and media pluralism in the european union and its member states. that is why my group, the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and the european democrats, have put a question to you which is based on this very development. we ask the commission to draw up a green paper on the state of play, taking account of the developments in the political, economic and legal media structures in europe today. we also ask you to put forward a proposal for what you consider to be the appropriate course of action to achieve our hopefully shared objective of safeguarding media and opinion pluralism in the european union. i think that if we all go in this direction together, we will take a significant step forward towards ensuring the diversity of opinions in the european union. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. freedom and independence of the media are incompatible with economic power concentration, let alone monopoly. this is particularly true when it comes to political power at the head of government. the key word is berlusconi. the italian media tycoon, who is head of government in a personal union, and mr murdoch and mr kirch have taught the advocates of unrestricted freedom of the press to fear. the collapse of the church empire may not be a consolation in the face of pressure from commercial companies on public broadcasters - key words include sports rights costs - and in the face of increasing regional, national and global media concentration with growing cross-border interconnectedness. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states. volume 44 of the series of publications 'media research' of the state institute for media in north rhine-westphalia, which has recently been published, impressively describes the negative social consequences of media concentration on democratic and cultural foundations. in italy, it must be said clearly, the rule of law is also in danger. he's had to let go of a number of feathers. all this leaves only one conclusion: we need european regulations to limit media concentration because national law does not apply across national borders or because - as in italy - it is not even sought. it has already been mentioned that the italian president has been deeply concerned about the need for a law in italy which would in practice remove political control from the head of government over the public service broadcasting of rai and limit his private media power. the berlusconi case is in every way a special case, and one which i hope will remain unique. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the internal market. the convention is therefore called upon to place such a downright indecent concentration of power on the constitutional index. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. i therefore say, mr prodi, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, that it is now your turn to act! (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i shall try to explain my views on this matter in the course of these three minutes, at least in part. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat tobacco use. the importance of this has already been explained in detail and rightly so. but each political level has its own specific responsibilities. but the fact is that there is no specific legislative power at european level for this. it is rather that article 95 must always be invoked, as has been done here. this means that first of all it is necessary to examine and confirm whether the internal market is affected, for example by distortions of competition, barriers to trade and the like. it is only then that health protection can - and must - be taken into account in this context, which is absolutely indisputable. the court of justice has, as is well known, annulled the previous directive on advertising because it violated these principles. in the case of major events with cross-border implications, there is competition for venues. that is why this should be regulated and why we also agree to this part of the proposal. there are distortions. the commission has also proposed a regulation on the use of radio for transfrontier broadcasting. the same applies to the internet, although i am not sure how this can be enforced in practice when it is fed into third countries. but such a ban is not permissible in the case of magazines and newspapers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. moreover, these cross-border sales are not in cross-border competition. this is a conflict which is not relevant to the internal market and therefore such a settlement cannot take place. the commission's proposal is therefore not acceptable. the commissioner has just made reference here to the court of justice's comment on newspapers. in short, the court of justice distinguishes between strictly local advertising measures - a typical example being billboards - where crossborder competition is already excluded per se, and then states that other measures, such as newspapers, could be different and that this need not be excluded in principle. that's right, you're right. but it must be added, as the ecj also says elsewhere in its judgment, that distortions must actually exist, that they must be perceptible, that they must not simply be asserted. and that's not the case with newspapers. this is not a matter of formalism, and certainly not a matter of legal legalistic conjecture. i think it is a question of political and legal importance. i would just like to remind you of the importance attached to the question of the delimitation of powers in the convention and of the discussions on the possibility of national members of parliament taking a position on these questions in a separate body. we should set an example and respect the responsibilities of our colleagues in the national parliaments as legislators and not leave this to the ecj. we can also do this by reducing prejudices against brussels' centralism and dirigism. i do not want to end without expressing my sincere thanks to mr medina ortega for his efforts to reach a compromise and, above all, a word of congratulations on the legislative quality of his text.
commission. – mr president, i wish to begin by paying tribute to the speed and quality of parliament's work. i must also commend the rapporteur on his excellent work. financial conglomerates are important players in european financial markets. a significant number of them are also systemically important groups. if such a group were to face financial difficulties it could seriously affect financial markets and people's savings. currently the supervision of such groups is not adequately regulated in european financial legislation. the directive will therefore address an important loophole in our financial legislation. its adoption will contribute to financial market stability, the need for which has been demonstrated dramatically over the past months. the council has also recognised the importance of this directive and has unanimously agreed on a common position. the common position has taken into account parliament's main concerns expressed at first reading and is faithful to the objectives and the spirit of the commission proposal. for all these reasons, i commend the council common position to parliament and urge its rapid adoption.
madam president, commissioner, i should like to thank the rapporteur in advance for his work and for the rapid joint implementation of this directive. it is of great importance for the european financial market, for the internal market, for financial services. we must be particularly vigilant to ensure that cases of the magnitude of enron or world com are not repeated in europe. it is an essential contribution to the stability of the financial markets in europe. it is in the financial institutions' own interest that such a system be put in place. the conglomerates are houses that provide investment, insurance and banking services. we, the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and the european democrats, have tabled a number of amendments, in particular concerning the choice of calculation methods. but that was nuance. in the end, we are very satisfied with the overall design. it should be accepted in this form. i would like to draw particular attention to one innovation in this directive which is very important for us in the future in the whole discussion on european financial supervision. this is the role and structure of the so-called coordinator. in future, therefore, a coordinator will be appointed for a financial conglomerate. more and more conglomerates are being created. i am referring to my own country, germany, as an example of allianz insurance, which has bought up dresdner bank and has become a classic conglomerate, which also operates throughout europe. this coordinator is expected to be based in the home country and will ensure that the work of the different supervisory authorities in europe is coordinated and that the same accounting standards are in place. it is intended to ensure that, on the one hand, unnecessary red tape is avoided, but on the other hand, information about this conglomerate is exchanged and the complexity of this conglomerate is better understood. i think this is a very good and important step towards answering the question of how we will shape european financial supervision in the future. as someone who is not at all comfortable with the idea of a european super-authority for financial supervision at the moment, we should extend this idea and this idea beyond the financial conglomerates and gather positive experience here before we consider a super-authority. i believe that the conglomerate directive can be a good example and a landmark in this respect. i can therefore say on behalf of the group of the european people's party and european democrats that we will support this directive.
i have to say, madam president, unfortunately, we have had to make a number of changes to the souchet and nogueira reports. it's a sad scenario, anyway, sitting in this warm room talking and talking, not just to each other, but unfortunately often to each other. but out there, we are pushing more and more fish stocks into catastrophic states through environmental disasters and overfishing. it seems that the european union is being blocked rather than being reformed, and that is damaging to the image of the european union. we should start by fixing our own environment, and we should do it now. the commission's proposals were put forward late, but well before the summer. the first snow is coming, we are talking, but we are only talking today about the timetable for the reform, which is due to come into force in a few weeks, on 1 january next year. this timetable was, first of all, a linguistic restriction, apart from the one-sidedness of the galician content. the committee on fisheries then made a great effort and, with 258 amendments, was able to make the roadmap legible in the sense of a real reform. but curiously, the committee voted, for example, to protect the twelve-nautical-mile zone. and now i'm supposed to vote against it on wednesday! i won't! am i, are we puppets? of course, we all want to be re-elected. is that the reason for the memorable changeability of minds which the committee on fisheries called for? we all know that without fish, the fishery dies. the basic principles of fleet protection and resource conservation are no deviation and no softening. i want an economically successful, socially balanced and ecologically sound fishery. we must face reality and not chase the vision of the eternal stock with more ships. my appeal to colleagues is to step over your national shadow and support me in the fight against racism.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we all agree that the common fisheries policy needs to be reformed. but as soon as the individual modalities of the reform are discussed, the major differences become apparent. they concern not only the assessment of the situation, which is not exactly rosy at present, but also the measures to be taken. even the assessment of scientific research on our resources is different. this is what the report on the road map, which we are also discussing this evening, has shown. and i think that the discussions in the council of ministers are as lively as those in the european parliament. but we as the european parliament should concentrate on the issues at hand and try to play an active part in shaping a reform which will first ensure the long-term conservation of fisheries resources. we are talking about the precautionary principle, and cuts, painful as they may be, are probably necessary to ensure the sustainable management of fish stocks and thus the long-term survival of the fisheries as a whole. the social component of the measures to be adopted is of central importance. i therefore call on all members, including the fisheries ministers, to take their responsibility for the whole of the european union's fisheries seriously when deciding on reform, and not to be concerned with short-sighted national interests. we should not let the great opportunity to adopt a fundamental reform of the common fisheries policy pass us by. we must seize this opportunity, otherwise our fisheries in europe will be in a very dark place for the foreseeable future. the current state of cod stocks in the north sea is already a clear example of this, and i hope that we can learn from it.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think there was a political courage in many of these countries to take unpopular measures that had to lead to a change in the political, economic and social system. these measures should have been taken in a wide range of areas, but they also concerned membership of the european union. i believe that we can take some of that courage and that assertiveness and apply it to our own political work. at the same time, i would like to take this opportunity to thank the negotiating parties, namely the council, in particular the commission and the candidate countries, who have undertaken an immense amount of work over the last few years to bring this work to a positive conclusion. we must, however, recognize that there are still a number of things to be rectified in this process. for example, some major issues will have to be clarified before copenhagen, or adjustments will be necessary in the process afterwards. i am referring not only to the implementation of the transitional arrangements, which must of course be limited in time, but also to the issues we address in our reports, which are related to the lack of capacity of the administration and the judiciary, which are related to minority rights, corruption and human trafficking. these are examples of problems which should be tackled substantially before enlargement comes into force. i therefore believe that the commission's position is correct to focus on pre-accession assistance in these areas in particular, in order to create the necessary conditions by may 2004. i agree with you that after all these achievements on all sides, we still have a lot to do. we in the european parliament are prepared to make our contribution by respecting the timetable. it was this house that decided that accession should take place so that these countries could participate in the 2004 european elections, and it set the date that the others adopted. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the accession treaty, which is expected to be around 6000 pages, is in place and that we can take our decision by the beginning of april at the latest, so that the date for signature can be met and the ratification timetable for mid-2004 can be met. there are some very specific issues that need to be addressed in the negotiations. i am referring to structural aid and agriculture. i would like to stress once again that i hope, with the wisdom of all the negotiating partners, that the negotiations will take place in a way that the result can be credibly presented as a success afterwards, so that we do not end up failing in a referendum because of trifles compared to the historical dimension. i think we should bear this in mind in all our responsibility and i think we will have to provide some support in the coming weeks. this also means that we have to ask ourselves seriously whether we want to spend money, for example, which will not increase until 2006, disproportionately on direct aid, or whether it would not be better to spend it macroeconomically on rural development as a whole. i would just like to put that question in the chamber for the benefit of these countries. i am convinced that we will succeed in bringing the kaliningrad question to a conclusion. i hope that all the disagreements with the negotiations will be over and that the commission and the council can quickly explain concretely what is meant by the travel document light. one thing is absolutely clear, and that is the position of the european parliament: we must build a bridge to russia, but it must be clear that lithuania will become a member of the european union without restrictions, that we will respect the interests of a small, sovereign country, and that we will not accept any solution that prevents, hinders or delays lithuania's entry into the schengen system. (applause from the centre) i think that's an important clue for the next few weeks. i hope that this will work on the basis of the outcome of the negotiations so far. i would also like to make it clear that the two countries with which no agreement has yet been concluded can be sure that, if they complete the negotiations and fulfil the conditions, no new veto or new alibi will be invented and the door will be closed to them. this is also part of the safeguarding of countries like bulgaria and romania. i hope that the cyprus problem can be resolved on the basis of the proposal put forward by mr kofi annan. i believe that this is an important step forward for relations within and outside the european union and for peace in the mediterranean, irrespective of accession and enlargement of the european union, but also in this context. i also believe, however, that something as self-evident as this - namely, achieving this - must not be accompanied by a watered-down application of the copenhagen political criteria for the sake of political discounting. we will go to copenhagen after the citizens have understood that we are serious about the first step with 10 countries, and then we will have a broad debate in the current member states of the european union about how far we should go. the only way we can be credible is to say that further enlargement of the european union can only take place on the basis of full compliance with the copenhagen criteria, both in political and economic terms. i think that's part of the credibility of the whole process. to clear up any misunderstandings: if turkey fulfils these conditions, which today include respect for the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, and this is fully part of a political development in turkey, the military no longer plays a political role in turkey and the full rule of law is established, then turkey has changed in a dramatic way, and then we have to think about turkey's membership in a positive way. i don't know if she'll make it, but we should give her a chance to make it. that is why the political criteria are important here. (applause from the centre)
co-author of the report. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. in his introductory remarks, mr brok said something which applies in principle to all the candidate countries, including the czech republic. there are still certain things to be done, in the economic field, in the administrative field. i do not want to go into that because these things are not problems at all, but will be solved in the course of the next few years. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it is the decrees of president edward beneš, which we have discussed at great length in the committee on foreign affairs. i have tabled a final amendment on behalf of our group which i would like to present to you here: 'the european parliament, on the basis of the conclusions of the opinions it has commissioned, considers that the presidential decrees are not an obstacle to the accession of the czech republic to the eu from the point of view of eu law, which includes that after the country's accession all eu citizens will have the same rights on the territory of the czech republic, that judgments in absentia will be overturned and that law no 115 of 8 may 1946 has no justification for existence from the point of view of the modern rule of law' - let me repeat, 'law no 115 of 8 may 1946 has no justification for existence from the point of view of the modern rule of law'; considers the basic statements of the german-czech declaration of 21 january 1997 to be a good basis for reconciliation, which constitutes the moral basis for european unification; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. this text respects the dignity of all those who have suffered in the past decades, while it is important to recall the sequence of historical events. first there was the nazi rule, then there was the occupation of czechia by nazi germany, then there was the war, and then there was the expulsion. many, many people have suffered, czechs and sudeten germans, hungarians and roma and others. i believe that this text respects the dignity of all, but it also respects the dignity of all those who live in the czech republic and in the european union today, all those who live today but who have nothing to do with these events personally and who look ahead, who are concerned about the present and the future. the text also makes no demands and does not put pressure on the czech republic. in conclusion, since my last amendment is fair to all parties, i ask you to accept it and the whole report tomorrow when we vote. (applause from the centre)
co-author of the report. the commission is not as a reporter for estonia, i think back to that memorable day when i first arrived in estonia some nine and a half years ago. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union's policies are consistent with the objectives of the lisbon strategy, and that the european union's policies are consistent with the objectives of the lisbon strategy. the economic radical cure has brought with it social hardships. that's right. but they are also found in other countries. however, the economic structure of estonia now seems to me to be healthier than in some other candidate countries. this creates better opportunities for greater attention to be paid to the social cohesion of society. i would like to return to what the commissioner said, when he said that the commission was not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. we must also show a little generosity in the final negotiations. i would like to be specific and say that the estonian milk, for example, will certainly not flood the european union. if anything, she'll be in finland by now. but we have seen that the estonians have been subjecting their agriculture to world market conditions for ten years. if we had done that here in the european union, we would certainly have taken special care of the survivors of such a radical cure. i think we should give the estonians the same in this context. so please be generous in this area in estonia! we have other problems in areas such as oil shale mining. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i believe that we as the european union must also participate in investments to some extent. but overall i would like to say to the estonian friends: tere tulemast ja kõike head, kallit söbrad eestist! as vice-chairman of the delegation for relations with lithuania, i would like to point out briefly that last week, when we had our gpa meeting on this subject there, we had a long discussion about the fact that we are not really very happy with the possible practical effects of the kaliningrad agreement. we fear that the lithuanian authorities in particular, but also the travellers themselves, will have to accept some technical and practical shortcomings, and we hope that even better solutions can be found. (applause from the centre)
co-author of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i was very impressed by the speeches this morning on the historic deeds of the citizens of the countries of central and eastern europe. the desire for freedom and democracy tore through barbed wire, tore down walls, restored self-reliance, in the belief that this was the right way to integrate and unite this continent. the strong will to integrate at the time did not make us think about who and how much it would cost and whose privileges would be affected. it was the common will that united all the people because they wanted freedom to be created for them again. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is a pity that our actions today are not guided by these political visions, coupled with political will. i do not want to give the impression that i am simply brushing aside the problems that are actually on the table and that i am saying that they do not exist. but we must set priorities for how we solve the problems, and in doing so we must ensure that the priorities are precisely those which concern european integration and not those which serve as the backdrops for populist harlequins. i am convinced that adherence to the basic principles of democracy, respect for minorities and human rights is a key indicator of integration for all. i think it is important that the applicant countries do not give up on the integration process at this point. it also means that they strengthen their administrations down to the local level, that corruption is combated, that the ministries of justice and the judiciary are strengthened at all levels, that there is free access to the courts for all people, and that they feel treated fairly, because that is where they feel the change that the european union has brought to the countries. this means that latvia will have to make efforts to integrate the russian minority after accession and not to let up in financial efforts, although it will be difficult for the new government to continue making such decisions of a financial nature. but it is also the task of the european union to be able to integrate itself, to be able to take decisions, to be transparent and democratic, and i have to say that the homework must be done better on the western side. the charge of incompetence, which has been made in connection with agricultural expenditure and also structural expenditure, is not justified in my view. i think it is important that rural and regional development should be a priority. if we are not careful, the applicant countries will be left hanging for years, decades. this is a very important point, and i must say that the wrong decision was simply made in brussels. we should - and i thought it was a good idea to follow verheugen's suggestion - introduce more flexibility, i.e. where there is absorptive capacity, there should also be payment to ensure that structural development in the countries proceeds rapidly. i see the same thing with the scrap reactors. the scrap reactors are a common problem after enlargement, and i therefore believe that flexibility is also necessary here. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights. the nuclear power plant is an explosive danger to all. in this sense, i hope that the latest activities will really lead to an integration of these countries and not to ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. as the author of the opinion of the committee on budgets, i would like to emphasize that the political and economic benefits of enlargement far outweigh the possible budgetary costs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for example, we are talking about a budgetary framework for 2006 of some 15 billion euros of expenditure, but on the other hand - and this is often forgotten - there are, for example, some 5 billion euros of own resources which the new countries will already contribute to the budget of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the council, at its brussels summit, has now also adopted parts of this parliament's position, such as the principle of gradual integration of direct payments in agriculture, for example, the clarification that no new member state should become a net contributor after accession, and for example, a rule to prevent a country from being financially worse off after accession than it was immediately before accession. i attach great importance to the fact that the necessary adjustment of the financial perspective, on the basis of article 25 of the interinstitutional agreement, is to be made jointly - literally - by the council and the european parliament, acting by the appropriate majorities, on a proposal from the commission. i would expect, mr president-in-office, that in the budgetary conciliation, for example, it would be made clear that parliament is continuously and fully informed of the progress of the negotiations and that in a trialogue agreement would be reached on how the procedure for adjusting the financial perspective is to be launched in the coming months. because there are still many questions to be answered: how, for example, is to be understood the wording of the berlin european council, paragraph 12 of the conclusions, which expressly states that it is desirable to have a clear separation between the expenditure of the old union and that of the new members? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that needs to be clarified. will there be a supplementary budget when the date of accession is 1 may 2003? it is not the case that the commission has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the facts. i think that in the question of new neighbours and partnerships, too, we must examine very carefully what financial adjustments are necessary, for example in category 4 - foreign policy. this concerns turkey as well as other neighbours and new partners, where we will have to talk about very specific new partnerships with each other.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner verheugen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by expressing my thanks to the commission for this debate, but also for all the work of the reporting on enlargement and for all the work of preparing for enlargement, and to my group for the excellent cooperation. the commissioner, mr president, has not only said that, but we have had all the information at all times. we have had the debate in the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, and i would also like to thank the chairman of that committee for his report and for all the cooperation. i believe that all the political groups, all the political forces in the committee, have done their best to critically accompany this historic process and to help make this process, this enlargement, a success. i have two specific points to make in addition to what my colleagues have said about the individual countries and also about the general part, which was right and intelligent. there are two very specific problems. firstly, the proposal of the secretary-general of the united nations on cyprus, which has been welcomed by all. but there is one point in annex ix which might be misunderstood, namely the proposals for article 1 (1) concerning a referendum of the citizens in the divided country when the basic agreement is adopted. these are the questions that will be answered in this referendum with a yes or no. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations. i think that the european union - and i am glad that you are already waving at me, commissioner - should decide this question of the helsinki agreements quite independently, and cyprus should respond accordingly. the second question concerns turkey. i would remind you that we are not debating turkey today because we are debating enlargement and turkey is not an acceding country at the moment. it is a candidate country, and turkey has had this status since 1999. however, despite the great efforts and the great successes and progress that turkey has achieved, it does not meet the copenhagen political criteria. that is why i see no reason to talk about any date. i would like to say this to you, mr president-in-office: the fixing of a date is out of the question, at least not for us!
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council! it is not necessary to repeat that this is a historic day, at least for this parliament. my group will also support the brok report by a large majority, just as we see the enlargement of the european union as a historic opportunity. i do not quite understand why you, mr haarder, and especially mrs malmström, have spoken of reunification. when i look at the history of europe, it is striking that this continent has never really been united. the achievement now being made is all the greater because it is the first time that this continent has been united. i do not want to disturb the harmony too much, but i would like to mention at least three points of concern which make me somewhat dissatisfied with the report, despite the general agreement. firstly, i regret that almost all the applications which dealt with the major social and employment problems posed by the processes of transformation and enlargement in the applicant countries were rejected. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. secondly, my group is still not satisfied that, unlike in previous enlargements, the equality of the new member states and their citizens is not fully guaranteed from the outset. i know that you, mr commissioner, have done a great deal for the public, but the selfishness of some governments has prevented essential things from happening. i am aware of the problems, but i find it problematic that in the process of enlargement, which is described as a historic task, legal and financial discrimination is not prevented from the outset. thirdly, we regret that the proposals for further efforts in the border regions were not included in the report. i believe that the responsible governments in particular, and perhaps the commission too, are doing too little in these areas to support the far-reaching changes that are about to take place. at present, it is not excluded that at least some of these regions may become more likely to become the transit area of enlargement. i therefore call on the commission and the governments to do everything possible to ensure that the border regions of the past become workshops for european integration and that the positive human and social results are also experienced there, as was certainly achieved in the former border regions, for example saarland, lorraine and luxembourg.
mr president, the extraordinary debate has made even more visible the complexity of the perspectives and problems in the process of enlargement of the european union and its future shape. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there were also some tones that are not to be considered uncritically. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is perhaps not a stretch if there is now a statement to postpone the date of accession. but a few weeks later, the european parliament elections take place, and the outcome of the convention is decided by the fifteen alone. the delay is mainly due to the content. the problems to be solved are more difficult than expected. poland and other countries expect that agricultural subsidies will be reconsidered and that equality will not be achieved until 2013. the fears that a first- and second-class union might emerge have not been overcome. this is the natural reaction to the fact that the candidates are being asked to make the most of the situation, while the necessary transitional periods have hardly been negotiated. commissioner verheugen has understandable complexes when he presents the members of parliament with 6000 pages of text confirming accession. we should rather ask ourselves what we are doing to the citizens of the future union when it comes to this figure. the european parliament, the national parliaments and our own, are called upon to put their finger in the wounds and to call for an approach which ensures stability and equality and prevents us from ending up in dead ends.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council - and i would also like to welcome the commissioner - ladies and gentlemen! i would just like to focus on a subject that has just been raised, but i would like to address it in a very different way. i think we as the european parliament must ask ourselves seriously how we intend to deal with such an important country as turkey in the long term. i think we need to answer some very serious questions here. the first question is: do we really want to hold up a mirror to turkey's progress reports year after year and say to you, 'sorry, you are not ready yet'? are we going to continue to accept that the european union's common foreign and security policy is handicapped by the fact that we cannot use nato resources because they are used as a potential means of blackmailing the turks? the european union has a duty to help turkey to develop its relations with the european union, and to help turkey to develop its relations with the european union. i therefore ask my colleagues to consider this matter very seriously and perhaps to accept and approve the epp motion, which is precisely what it is about. it is amendment no 7 which says: we must now begin to build a special relationship with turkey in order to be able to solve all the common problems together. we should not wait until turkey is able to be considered seriously as a candidate for accession, on account of its human rights situation, its democratic situation, etc. i would be glad if this house would join in this urgent appeal to us to work together in this important part of europe.
mr president, mr commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen of this parliament and of the candidate countries! let me give a warm welcome to my latvian colleagues who were elected to the new parliament of their country at the beginning of october this year. i welcome them warmly because i have felt very connected with their efforts, with their work, for many years. on days like today i ask myself - and i am certainly not the only one - what has particularly impressed me about the process of enlargement in recent years. among the many remarkable achievements, one is rarely recognized. in many reports from the commission or parliament, there is a short but significant sentence - a sentence that is rarely commented on, where the meaning and the attention are far apart, sometimes even out of proportion. this sentence is very simple - and it applies to all ten candidate countries: 'the political conditions for accession are fulfilled.' in other words, the first and for me the most important accession criterion formulated in copenhagen does not constitute an obstacle. i do not take this fundamental statement for granted. we should pay tribute to all our colleagues in the parliaments and governments of the candidate countries for their adherence to democratic principles even in difficult situations. the maintenance of democratic relations is not a matter of course in times of upheaval and reorientation, in times of enormous economic problems and radical changes in living conditions. after decades of oppression, citizens have demonstrated what the political priority must be: democracy and freedom come first; they must be protected and protected.
- mr president, i have to go. as a pan-european, i have been able to work towards this great day since the 1970s. otto of habsburg was here today, he was mentioned several times and i was allowed to accompany him all the way. i'm celebrating today, and i feel like it's a big day. as the son of a bohemian family, i am also happy that today, for the first time, a member of parliament spoke in czech, namely my friend daniel kroupa. he is in the tradition of a great social democrat, jiri pelikan, who was here as an exiled czech after the first direct elections to the european parliament. but there were always people from the second bohemian people, the sudeten german ethnic group: i name volkmar gabert and egon klepsch. i 'm part of that tradition , too . we've always considered ourselves ambassadors of bohemia. the idea of a pan-european union was born in bohemia 80 years ago. bohemia is the heart of europe. i therefore regret that earlier this year in prague there was suddenly talk of defending the post-war order. we do not need a post-war order in europe. we do not need a pre-war or war order either, but what we want to build at the beginning of the 21st century is a new, just international order, based on reconciliation, on healing the wounds we have inflicted on each other, on justice, on mutual respect and mutual recognition. i therefore appeal to the czech authorities to throw unjust decrees such as the beneš decrees where they belong, namely in the dustbin of history! let us build together a new europe in which people live together on equal terms, which is oriented towards the protection of ethnic groups and minorities, towards respect for the cultural diversity of this europe, as was so impressively expressed in the speeches here this morning. (applause from the centre)
mr president, a lot has been said about turkey today. this is not surprising at all, because this parliament is a reflection of the people of the european union, and our citizens are very much concerned about this issue at home. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. the council representative was not very clear today? but we're not in a bind. the copenhagen criteria are not met and are not negotiable. in this context, i would like to thank mr verheugen for his clear statement on turkey today. as important as turkey is to us, there must be no political concessions, for example on the cyprus question or on turkey's geostrategic role! this country has always wanted to set its own rules of accession, under the motto 'we are not a candidate like any other'. turkey has always tried to put pressure on us, but it cannot do so! it would also be an affront to the representatives of the applicant countries here. and yet, for example, even someone like the german chancellor will not tire of announcing that he will be in favour of a termination in the interests of turkey. this is not just a sign of serious european political incompetence. this chancellor, who has lied and deceived his own people, is trying to make up for his electoral mistakes. the german-american relationship is now to be improved again at the expense of the entire european union. isn't that pure opportunism? isn't that incredible? it is dishonest to an intolerable degree! it is particularly dishonest towards the turkish people. is it not more honest to tell turkey that there are still problems and that we must address these problems in its own interest because otherwise they cannot be solved? it is fair to say that turkey's rapprochement with the european union, if any, is taking place in small, steady steps. this path is still not easy. we hope that turkey, this great and proud nation, will persevere in its own interests and that it will at some point reconsider whether it really wants to cede so many sovereign rights to the european union in the course of accession or whether it does not want to cooperate with us on another level. we're making that offer now.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner! i don't understand all the excitement. we've been fighting about turkey since yesterday. i do not understand why, when we are talking about enlargement, we are suddenly having a dispute over a fundamental question, namely whether turkey is even part of the european union. we shall have the opportunity to deal with this matter objectively in the near future when we discuss the oostlander report. it is a matter of urgency that the commission should be given the opportunity to present its proposals to the council. the report will give us an opportunity to discuss this matter in a factual way. i have the growing suspicion, when i read mr ferber's motion for a resolution, amendment no 7, that it is not about turkey at all and in fact it is not about the european union at all. it seems to be about germany, about domestic politics in germany. it seems that there are two important elections in germany, in hesse and lower saxony. we are supposed to be debating turkey in the european parliament, but in reality we are taking advantage of this opportunity. that's the main problem. i'm being honest. i have more problems with turkey than mrs sommer does at the moment because i do not think much of islamists, and for me they are islamists, even if they present themselves differently today. i am very curious to see how they intend to carry out all that they have promised. i'm having a huge problem with the latest development. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer to the question of the future of the european union. if you wish, we can do that when we discuss the oostlander report, and then you will see that we can have an open and honest debate. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is not easy to bring in a new aspect almost at the end of the debate. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of presenting this report to the european parliament, and that it is a good thing that the commission has taken this initiative. i think that this is a great task which lies ahead of us and which cannot begin until the accession process is virtually complete with the signing of the treaties. i come from a region which came into the european union in 1990, so to speak, overnight. i know that many citizens have felt that the necessary restructuring process was a personal defeat, a relegation that has made them look like losers. i think we must also make it clear to people in the candidate countries that membership of the european union also means that the means are provided so that citizens can go through the difficult process with social security. this will be a big task for us, because we need majorities in the population. if we agree in this parliament, that is welcome, but we must, as it is always so simply said, 'involve the citizens in this process', and this involvement is certainly not easy. let's work together to make this transferable. as a member of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, i would like to see the committees involved in the negotiations be involved in a fairer and more intensive way in the next concrete discussions on the outcome of the negotiations. i know that this is a great political achievement, a great political report, but the various committees certainly have some important things to say about the process.
- mr president, i have to go. i thank the commission colleagues who have been able to stay here for two hours once a year out of respect for parliament and the debate on the work programme. i admire mrs de palacio for answering all the questions, including those from the policy fields of colleagues who had other priorities. i see i've praised the colleagues who are there. i have read the work programme carefully, mrs de palacio, ladies and gentlemen of the commission. it's better than what you've been delivering. at least it's more pleasant for my areas. they have integrated the sustainability area everywhere, which we have always called for. you really feel like you've done your homework, you've got it, and you've at least done the outer representation very neatly. but "external representation" and "internal behavior" are two different things. my questions are particularly concerned with internal behaviour. if we look at the so-called leftovers - that is, what you have brought over from 2002 - these are, for example, some of the items raised by mrs schörling, mrs frassoni and others, from my area of work, namely environmental policy - we can mention chemicals policy, pvc, the battery directive, but also other things. and when i look at why that is, one of the main points of conflict is that you're not getting an agreement internally. they have the conflict between environmental, industrial and commercial policies, and often also between consumer protection and commercial policy. if you do not resolve these conflicts internally, if you do not manage to demonstrate leadership and say: 'ok, the colleague who is in charge also has power over the inter-service procedure', then we will always have the so-called leftovers. i would therefore ask you, mrs de palacio, how you intend to resolve conflicts within the commission in the future, and are you prepared to make those conflicts more open and transparent? we can only guess why we don't get any proposals. the radio and the rumors tell us that. most of the time we can search in mr liikanen's fields, sometimes, often enough, we can also search in mr lamy's fields; sometimes with mr bolkestein. i'll put them on the bad guys' side. the poor mrs wallström and mr byrne, who always do their best but are sometimes rather under-buttered, i would exclude. i expect you to do what you do on the outside, on the inside. this means that you will be presenting the proposals you have put forward very quickly in the future.
the commission is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. first of all, i would like to say how pleased we are to be able to hold this debate, which has been preceded by the work of all the commissioners in the committees, and which has finally produced a result with a positive balance sheet. in this connection, i would like to thank, on behalf of all the commissioners, the contributions, the inputs which have consistently been the subject of the debates and discussions which have taken place in the various committees to fine-tune our programme. when we put forward our first proposals, we received the first reactions from the responsible committees of parliament themselves. so i appreciate the work that's been done. this was a first test, the results of which were not uniform across the committees. i hope next year it works perfectly in all of them. secondly, on the question of enlargement, i think that president prodi has been very clear. the year 2003 is undoubtedly still the first priority. we must continue negotiations with the countries that will be part of the second wave and ensure that all the changes and adjustments that the candidate countries have committed to undertake in 2004 are developed and implemented. this will undoubtedly require a very considerable effort on the part of the applicant countries, and also on the part of the commission, to work with them to facilitate this work and to verify that it is being carried out. if not, mechanisms should be put in place to correct this lack of development. after enlargement and with the prospects we have, what will happen? the president has made it very clear that decisions will have to be taken on questions concerning the countries of the former yugoslavia and also on that circle of countries with which we have special relations. i think that's the challenge we'll have to discuss, develop and see. but at the moment, let us be clear, the priority is what is on the table: both the countries of 2004 and those which - in principle, bulgaria and romania - should enter 2007. as regards turkey, we are in a stand-by situation, simply because turkey has not yet fulfilled the political requirements for joining the union. in the economic field, i would say that the commission - and this is the third priority, as the president has said - will continue to develop the structural changes needed to promote the lisbon project. the european union, as the most developed knowledge-based society, committed to full employment, will be the most competitive society in 2010. we will continue to work on this and, in this respect, i would point out that with regard to the stability pact we have the framework of the treaties which is very clear, including the protocol, where figures are clearly mentioned - such as 3% of the deficit and 60% of the debt - and it is true that we were asked at the barcelona council to work towards greater economic coordination - to which mr barón also referred earlier, for example. the commissioner responsible, mr solbes, has given us a first presentation of the approach and timetable, and the specific documents will be presented shortly. as regards the other aspects, i shall only make a few points on matters within my own competence. the problems of legislation and the problem of comitology have been discussed, ladies and gentlemen. we know that we are currently negotiating agreements with the council through the high-level group on interinstitutional cooperation. it is precisely on this issue that we have no real agreement, and we are trying to reach some points of agreement. i think that progress has been made in this area too, and that progress has been made in the last year. we have to keep going down that road. i think the prospects for improvement are favourable. in this respect, i would like to say that the commission will continue to work with parliament and, of course, with the council. that is how we shall be able to get ahead on this matter. as regards the means and ambitions, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that, despite everything, the results of the development and the process of building the european union clearly show that our ambitions are very high but that we are achieving them. of course, the commission can always ask for more manpower and has done so, particularly in view of enlargement. the minimum necessary has been agreed. i can only tell you that we would have liked it even more. if someone insists on that ground, i think we are doing it with the minimum, but we are getting a good result. i shall end by referring to the specific subjects in my portfolios. there has been talk of the single sky and of eurocontrol's responsibility. ladies and gentlemen, the single sky does not mean that the flight plans will be decided by the commission. the flight plans are still coordinated at european level by eurocontrol, not only for the fifteen, but for all the members of eurocontrol, which now numbers over thirty. the single sky initiative is concerned with a number of other areas, including the harmonization of management rules within the european union and the compatibility of interoperating systems, management systems, by integrating them into a network. the actual implementation remains in the hands of the states and the overall coordination of eurocontrol. in the other area, in the area of mr ripoll, i would like to say that with this tragedy of the prestige, which we all regret and the commission in the first place, the only thing that has been shown is that we were right. we were right to demand that the measures be adopted more quickly and that the proposed measures be implemented more quickly. unfortunately, the council, parliament and the final agreements did not go as far as that; there were more difficulties than expected and they were delayed. and they've been delayed in such a way that, unfortunately, the prestige accident has occurred. let us hope that the early start of the 'erika i' package - i have asked the ministers to put it into effect before next june - and the 'erika ii' package in february 2004 will prevent another accident like the prestige or the erika three years ago. as regards the refuge areas, among the proposals in the 'erika i' and 'erika ii' package, there are proposals that call for the various countries to identify and designate the appropriate ports to deal with emergency situations. galicia is certainly part of natura 2002. in speaking of certain things, we must bear in mind all the facts, not to mention the difficulty of some ports on that coast, which i know very well and better than some others. mr president, i now turn to mrs diamantopoulou, mr nielson and mr vitorino, who have been repeatedly questioned. (applause) i would like to thank
commission. – mr president, first of all, as there have been many references to the presence of the commission in this very interesting debate, i would like in turn to thank those members of parliament who were patient enough to stay and give definitive answers to specific questions.
commission. – mr president, in addition to the answers already given by president prodi, i would like to call the attention of the house to the fact that as far as return policy is concerned, very intensive work is under way on the programme for return to afghanistan, thanks to the commitment of the danish presidency. in 2003 the commission will present a directive on minimum rules on return policy, above all in order to guarantee the mutual recognition of return decisions taken by a member state. such decisions should be automatically recognised and executed by the other member states. the commission has recently presented a proposal for a european return programme. that is already under discussion in the council's specialised working groups. when it comes to integration policy, we have put forward a proposal to create some pilot projects between 2003 and 2005 in order to promote the exchange of best practices as far as integration policy is concerned. however, it has to be recognised that there is no explicit legal basis in the treaty for dealing with integration policy at european level. therefore we need to discuss the added value of addressing integration policy in european-wide terms. thirdly, as far as immigration and asylum is concerned, i can reiterate that the commission has put forward all the proposals asked of it by the tampere european council and the laeken council. the time has now come for the council to decide. the only two new elements of asylum policy that we are taking into consideration are two proposals that are included in our programme for 2003. the first one concerns resettlement policy and the second protection in the region – the possibility of asking for asylum outside the territory of the european union. these two proposals will follow very closely the consultations launched by the united nations high commissioner for refugees. thirdly, concerning the seville conclusions, i would draw your attention to the fact that the commission has already presented to the council the proposal on mandates for new readmission agreements with the people's republic of china, albania, algeria and turkey. in june 2003 we are supposed to present, as set out in our programme, the report on burden sharing on external border control. we are now preparing a report on the financial allocations for partnerships with third countries aimed at tackling illegal immigration. the report aims to identify effective allocations of financial tools, possible shortcomings and the vulnerabilities that must be overcome in the future. when it comes to external borders, i can confirm that the commission intends to present a reform of the common manual on external borders in march 2003. all the other actions asked of us in seville, such as joint training and joint operation in the control of external borders, are already being developed by the appropriate council working group and will be financed by the commission's argo programme. finally, we recognise the fight against terrorism as a priority for 2003. as far as legislative action is concerned, priority should be given to the fight against sources of financing for terrorism, and several of the proposals included in our programme address this challenge. as mrs terrón i cusí said, we intend to bring forward proposals concerning common procedural guarantees in criminal procedures. we have launched a consultation and intend to build upon the results of that consultation in a green paper. we shall therefore be bringing forward a proposal on common minimum rules on criminal procedure guarantees in the 15 member states by the end of next year. (applause)
commission. – mr president, i should like to respond to the more specific questions raised by mrs frassoni and mr van den burg. to mrs frassoni, who talked about the outcome of the johannesburg summit, i will start by saying that the commission in many ways shares the worries about the softness of some of the decisions taken there but this has been duly commented on. as regards the question of the relationship between international agreements on the environment and the wto framework, in johannesburg it was a non-event and nothing new happened: nothing was added to wto, nothing was subtracted. johannesburg was an attempt for the two sides to see if that balance could be changed – and it was not changed. for that reason not everyone was happy, but there is a limit to the unhappiness. the second question from mrs frassoni concerned the category ii initiatives which are too weak and unclear. i agree that the risk is that these weak initiatives do not add up to anything substantial. the hard core of follow-up actions for the european union to johannesburg will be our water and energy initiatives. these are not going to be weak or unclear. they are already on the agenda for the spring european council and we are already engaged with the member states in clarifying these initiatives, which we see as big and important. i agree with mr van den burg that we need more rapid disbursement, especially regarding activities covered by the edf. things are moving forward and are somewhat better than they used to be, but we still have unsolved problems concerning staff and structure. this is an ongoing battle. we are preparing to do bigger things in the hipic global health fund, education for all. all this depends on starting up the 9th edf and i would urge mr van den burg when he returns to the netherlands to make sure that the last remaining country in the convoy takes the necessary action, so that we are ready to access 9th edf money. as regards the agricultural profile of europe in these global negotiations, this is back on track. we managed in johannesburg and we are still managing to keep alive the formulations embedded in the doha language on this front. we still see the external actions there as part of the necessary process of adaptation, which we in europe have to take seriously. this language is continually being confirmed at all the meetings. yesterday in the general affairs and external relations council this was again the case. we are on track.
commission. – mr president, i would like to thank mr titley for his interest and consistency in following developments on the european defence industries. the commission has invested a lot in this issue. we had a meeting of the enlarged external relations commissioners in july at which some of the options for the commission communication were discussed. since then mr patten's service and mine have continued to work on this. we shall be having a further relex commissioners' meeting in december with the aim of defining a commission vision of an optimum armaments policy for the european union, ensuring that its defence-related industry is competitive and in a position to underpin the capabilities required for the esdp. i hope that the next time this issue comes up for discussion we shall be able to present specific documents.
- we now welcome the president-in-office of the council as our last speaker. he attended the entire sitting in person and his presence was a credit to parliament. ladies and gentlemen, i would ask you to give your full attention to minister haarder as he closes the debate. i demand silence , please . (applause) i would like to thank
president of the council. - mr president, commissioners and members of parliament, it has been a great pleasure to take part in this dialogue, the first of its kind. i know this because i was sitting over there in my seat as a member of parliament last year when the commission presented its legislative programme, and the working methods were quite different then. there was also criticism from parliament, which we have not heard today. this is a sign of the great progress made in the dialogue between the council and parliament, and i am glad that i have now been able to contribute a few minutes to the dialogue so that the votes can begin at 12 noon precisely. the presidency is very pleased with the commission's approach. we have noted the priority of the legislative and work programme and, on behalf of the council, i can say that we welcome the commission's intention to apply impact assessments to the major legislative initiatives. that was something that mr clegg was talking about and i think mrs frassoni also talked about. and in that connection i would like to say to both mrs frassoni and mr swoboda that i too would have wished that we had gone further with the interinstitutional agreement on better legislation. we had a very good meeting on 1 october in brussels, with both mrs frassoni and mr swoboda, and i felt that we were very close to concrete agreement on a number of points. the time is running out, so if we are to have a result before the end of the year, i would suggest that we now set some realistic targets, that we describe what we can agree on and that we also show a little flexibility. the council may make concessions on certain points. this applies, for example, to the alternative or soft forms of regulation that mrs frassoni mentioned. i think we can talk about it. there are other subjects where it is more difficult, such as comitology, where, as we know, there are different traditions in the countries, but let us now agree on as much as we can. i am ready to continue the dialogue which has unfortunately been prolonged and interrupted. let us re-establish it and let us ask our officials to give us a report which we can then discuss in the near future. it is now up to the greek and italian presidencies to draw up a joint programme of work for the council for the coming year. the new work programme will be presented to the council in december - probably on 9-10 december. i understand that the vote in this house on the commission's programme will take place as early as 5 december. i am convinced that the forthcoming presidencies will take due account not only of the commission's work programme but also of the views on the work programme which parliament has expressed and will express in the coming days. and then i would like to thank mr vitorino for what he said about asylum and immigration. as i happen to be the president of the council dealing with these matters, i would like to confirm all that mr vitorino said. we are aiming to complete new rules on the reception of asylum, the definition of a refugee and also the question of which state is to process an asylum application. to mr titley, who called for a policy towards our new neighbours after enlargement, i would say that the day before yesterday in brussels the general affairs council set out a longer-term strategy to be implemented in cooperation with the applicant countries, a strategy to ensure that these new frontiers to the east become frontiers of cooperation and not new iron curtains. finally, mr barón crespo raised the question of the future of the commission, which will include commissioners from the new member states, and how the transition should be carried out. as i said yesterday, the general affairs council the day before yesterday in brussels decided that the admission would take place on 1 may, that the new commission with commissioners from the new member states would take office on 1 november, so that the new parliament would have ample time to approve the new commissioners, and that in the interim period, from 1 may to 1 november, there would be commissioners from the new member states who would not be given a portfolio and who would therefore not necessarily be approved by parliament. but it's all an attitude. i mentioned this yesterday because it can only be done in cooperation with parliament, and it was in the context of good cooperation that i mentioned the council's thoughts. we are quite open to parliament's thoughts on this.
- thank you very much, minister haarder! the draft resolutions on these points will be put to the vote on 5 december 2002 in brussels.
- mr. haarder nods his head in approval. the debate is closed.
- mr president, i have to go. we had the meeting with our colleagues from the candidate countries yesterday morning, which was not an official meeting, but one of the most interesting meetings ever held in this house. i regret that there is a detailed report for yesterday afternoon but not for this historic meeting yesterday morning, and i wanted to ask whether this is still being done.
- i'll pass this on to the administration, congressman.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the council decided on monday to set the date of accession for 1 may at the latest. i think that we should not be arguing about the month or the month and i suggest that you adapt it to us and include the date of 1 may here. but in order to avoid this being to the detriment of parliament when it comes to the appointment of the new commission, we should make a determination in parliament's interest now and insert after the date: '... and ask the council to work with parliament to appoint and confirm the new commission only after the european elections and to find a provisional solution for the applicant countries before then'. i think we should avoid the rights of parliament being curtailed by nominations before the election.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to go. i would like to make a suggestion to you, subject to the agreement of the applicants, that the word 'welcomes' be replaced by 'takes note'. the reason for this is quite simple: the lithuanian authorities and the lithuanian parliament have not yet given their consent. i think that it is an important condition for the european parliament that the lithuanians also agree to this agreement, which is why we should use the term 'takes note'. i hope that this can be accepted by the applicant. i would also suggest that you take the first sentence of amendment no 52 by the socialists, which was originally withdrawn, and insert it in paragraph 18. then the technical details are out, and the essential message is carried. perhaps, ladies and gentlemen of the socialist group, we can agree on that.
- mr president, i have to go. i'm the reporter for this part. i would like to point out that the original was written in english. the german translation does not at all agree with the english text. that is why we have tried to reach a separate vote. i would just like to point out once again that the english version is the only one that is correct.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to go. i would just like to emphasize that the european parliament supports the commission's proposal to use this experiment of the reduced vat rate for labour-intensive services. nevertheless, we are very disappointed that the nine member states which have made use of it have not been able to submit a report on this experiment as agreed, so that the commission has no basis on which to draw up its own legislative proposal. i urge these member states to submit the report next year so that we can come to a european legislative proposal for the reduced rate of vat on labour-intensive services before the end of this parliamentary term. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. the fundamental efforts to improve health protection in the european union are to be welcomed. i reject the tobacco advertising directive on grounds of principle, firstly because there is no legal basis and secondly because tobacco is still a legal recreational product. if we follow the commission's logic, we will have to think about sweets, fast cars and alcohol in advertising tomorrow. thirdly, a policy which subsidizes tobacco and at the same time bans advertising is not coherent and consistent in itself and therefore cannot be taken seriously. this is a fundamental question, i think, and one that must be answered in a fundamental way.
president of the council. - mr president, the 10th eu-russia summit was held in brussels on 11 november with a satisfactory outcome. the meeting reflected the intensity and depth of eu-russia cooperation. the meeting showed that cooperation is now entering a new phase; the framework for the strategic partnership has been set and now it must be completed by concrete actions. as you know, there was a major problem, which this parliament has discussed many times, namely kaliningrad. a joint declaration was agreed on transit traffic between kaliningrad and the rest of russia. the agreement strikes a balance between the interests of the candidate countries, russia and the eu. the fact that the problem could be solved confirms the strength of cooperation between the eu and russia, while at the same time the eu has stated that we attach the utmost importance to the sovereignty of the candidate countries and to effective border control at the eu's external borders. we insisted that lithuania is a sovereign country and that lithuania has the same right to join schengen as all other applicant countries. that is something that was respected, even by president putin. an agreement was reached and i may add that president adamkus of lithuania has also accepted the agreement that was reached. the council also adopted a joint declaration on the fight against terrorism. this was crucial for both parties. the summit condemned terrorism in all its forms. the declaration and the accompanying cooperation plan show that cooperation between the eu and russia on this point is moving from the exchange of information to concrete cooperation. the european council also welcomed the progress made in the implementation of the eu-russia association agreement. there was a frank discussion of the situation in chechnya. it was agreed that the conflict could not be seen and treated as a problem of terrorism alone and that a political solution was the only way to lasting peace, stability and development in the region. i know that commissioner chris patten has on a previous occasion informed us of the extremely frank discussion that took place. the eu will follow developments closely. both sides must respect human rights and the union must demand that those who do not do so be prosecuted. the union will also demand that the international community be allowed to provide much-needed humanitarian aid to chechnya. regional conflicts, including in particular moldova, were also discussed. it is important to maintain that the political dialogue between the eu and russia is not geographically limited. the eu stressed the need for progress in economic and legal reforms in russia in order to secure russian membership of the wto. the need for russia to ratify the kyoto protocol and the energy charter was also stressed. in conclusion, i can say that this was a successful summit with a constructive dialogue in all fields. the eu-russia cooperation has entered a new phase in which everything can be discussed, and this will be to the benefit of both parties.
commission. – mr president, the european union/russian federation summit that took place on 11 november in brussels succeeded in producing an understanding, as you already know, on the issue of transit between kaliningrad and the rest of russia. as you are also aware, as a result of the discussions held at the may summit in moscow, the eu had agreed to carry out a review of the matter, taking further into account russia's concerns about unimpeded travel of russian citizens throughout the whole territory of the russian federation, including kaliningrad. in the relatively short time between the two summits, the union completed a comprehensive review of the situation. following a communication from the commission in september, this review formulated a new position on kaliningrad transit issues, which was adopted in october by the european council meeting in brussels. in parallel discussions with both russia and lithuania, the presidency and the commission managed to develop ways and means to ensure that the vital interests of all parties concerned would be respected. in addition to russia's legitimate interests, the eu was very much aware that any arrangements requiring further definition could not undermine the sovereignty of lithuania – a future member of the union – or carry negative implications for lithuania's future accession in full to the schengen regime. last but not least, the european union must adequately protect its borders at all times, a task for which it was essential to respect the schengen acquis. the european commission is confident that the understanding reached at the brussels summit strikes the right balance between these parameters, making it possible to resolve the issue of kaliningrad transit in a manner which is acceptable to all parties concerned. the commission has already started work to prepare for the implementation of the understanding reached at the summit. time is short and we are fully aware of the need to launch preparations without delay in order to meet the deadline of 1 july 2003, when lithuania will introduce the new regime for russian rail travellers crossing its territory. we are confident that by then the conditions will be in place to allow the introduction of simplified travel documents. i would like to add that resolving the issue of kaliningrad will allow us to substantially deepen and accelerate our cooperation with the russian federation in a number of important areas. among these, the european commission regards justice and home affairs as particularly important. indeed cooperation with russia on issues such as the fight against organised crime, illegal migration, drug trafficking, women trafficking and child pornography among others, is crucial. on this matter, russia confirmed at the summit that the agreement between europol and russia will be rapidly concluded. in addition, russia and the european union will immediately launch negotiations with a view to concluding a readmission agreement as soon as possible. in this context, the summit also produced a joint statement defining areas for further cooperation in the fight against terrorism, which is a clear priority for both sides. we intend to increase the exchange of information in a number of relevant areas, as well as to deepen cooperation against terrorism in multilateral arenas and in regard to the provision of assistance in this field to third countries. other important issues were discussed at the summit. the on-going conflict in chechnya featured prominently among these. in this regard, the european union raised its serious concerns over chechnya. i would like to assure you that the well-established position of the union on the matter was put forward to president putin in quite clear terms. while expressing its support for russia against terrorism in all its forms, the union explicitly stated that the fight against terrorism cannot be conducted at the expense of basic human rights. this is also valid for chechnya. the union raised again the problem of unimpeded and safe access for humanitarian workers on the ground in chechnya. in addition, the eu urged the russians to promote without delay a political solution that provides a framework for lasting peace, stability and reconstruction in chechnya. at the summit we also had a good discussion on a number of international issues, including the middle east, on which we agreed a joint statement. we reviewed the situation in afghanistan, as well as the need for iraq to comply fully with un security council resolution 1441. we also exchanged assessments regarding the threat of nuclear proliferation in the korean peninsula. finally, we reviewed the situation in moldova and belarus. russia has already agreed to the withdrawal and destruction of ammunition in the breakaway region of transnistria. the eu stated that it is essential that this takes place rapidly in order to promote a solution to the conflict which continues to impede the development on moldova, which is now the poorest country in europe. we also made it clear that we expect russia to use its influence on the government of belarus to adopt a more positive approach towards democratisation and respect of human rights. on the economic side, progress was less marked, except for the change in the eu anti-dumping regulations, which now accord russia market economy status. in addition, the summit endorsed progress reports on the energy discussions and on the concept of a common european economic space. the eu also raised a number of its commercial concerns, including the discriminatory charges levied by russia for european aircraft flying over siberia. the eu pressed russia to confirm expectations of early russian ratification of the kyoto protocol and to commit itself to conclude a long-delayed agreement on the clean-up of nuclear waste in north-west russia, the multilateral nuclear environmental programme in the russian federation (mnepr). i trust most of you are already aware that the 11th eu/russia summit will take place in st petersburg, in commemoration of the 300th anniversary of the city. taking this into account, russia has invited all eu leaders to this special summit, which should serve to deepen our bilateral cooperation with russia even further.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. our group is in favour of a strong strategic partnership between the european union and russia, because we are convinced that peace on our continent depends to a large extent on having a strong european union capable of acting and a democratic russia capable of acting. we also acknowledge the progress russia has made in recent years in overcoming the legacy of communism. but we are surprised by some of the circumstances surrounding the brussels summit. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. this concerns both chechnya and the kaliningrad question. as far as chechnya is concerned, i would say that we are a state governed by the rule of law, and denmark is also a state governed by the rule of law. it is the undeniable right of the chechens, if they wish to hold a peaceful congress in copenhagen, to hold that congress there. i do not want to criticise the council presidency for having held the summit in brussels. but i ask that we also be courageous and not always give in to pressure immediately when our interlocutors demand something of us. we must act decisively. we are in favour of a decisive fight against terrorism, because terrorism means that the peaceful coexistence of peoples is hindered and that people cannot live in peace. we are opposed to all forms of terrorism. but we also say that the fight against terrorism must not be deprived of its legitimacy by sacrificing human rights for it. we therefore call for the fight against terrorism to be accompanied by a global ethic based on human rights. in concrete terms, this means that the human rights of the chechen people must not be sacrificed to the necessary fight against terrorism. i was very surprised to read in the frankfurter allgemeine zeitung of november 13 that russian president putin, in response to a journalist's comment, said: 'if you want to become radical islamists and are therefore ready to undergo circumcision, then i will invite you to moscow. we're a multi-faith country, and we have good doctors. we recommend that you do this surgery in such a way that nothing will grow back". this is the attitude with which human rights are being violated in chechnya. i would be glad, mr president-in-office, if in future the communiqués on these summits would also include a written reference to the question of chechnya. i have not found the words to say this, although rapporteurs have told me - and commissioner patten said it before the committee on development and cooperation - that mr president rasmussen has been very active. but that is also part of the opinion of such a summit. the question of kaliningrad. i found a nice article today in my own local newspaper, the neue osnabrücker zeitung, entitled "nothing lost in russia. kaliningrad hopes for much from the eu, but little from moscow". of course, it is welcome that the vexing visa issue has been resolved. but the people in the oblast, in the kaliningrad region - and this is the core of the problem - look much more to the west than to russia. the editor-in-chief of the courageous newspaper "nowyje koljosa" - that is, "new wheels" - igor rudnikov said that the rhetoric and noise on the part of the federation power on the subject of kaliningrad had only harmed them. they look at the european capitals, they look at paris, they look at warsaw, they look at berlin. the central concern is that this kaliningrad region should be developed, that it should not become a no man's land in europe, but should be integrated into a development axis from poland to the baltic states. it would be russia's honour to bring this up so that these problems are resolved in the interests of the people. i would like to encourage you, mr president-in-office, and the commission to take action in this direction. then you have our support. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. as a christian i am ashamed of what mr marchiani has said here, misusing the word 'christianity'. i don't think killing muslims is a christian duty. i believe that in other countries, including member states, there is terrorism, arms trafficking and drug trafficking. nevertheless, nobody would think of simply bombing these member states and mr marchiani's home country. it's important to remember that we're dealing with emotions here. it is not a question of fighting terrorism at all, but of creating terrorism. the chechens have been colonially persecuted for 150 years. the chechens were deported by stalin. they have been overrun twice in our present era by a brutal war to serve oil interests. the second, which is still ongoing, was also very much forced by mr putin's election campaign. that is why it must be said that this is not fighting terrorism; this is how you create terrorists! we too have a part to play here! because how do we react? the beautiful city of copenhagen is being boycotted by mr putin because the danes have done nothing but fulfil their democratic duty to respect freedom of expression and freedom of assembly. but why is the council going to brussels? the commissioner responsible for humanitarian affairs, mr nielson, is not announcing his visit to chechnya but a banquet of heads of state or government in st petersburg. i 'm gonna make this very clear . i would feel bad about a europe that sits in st petersburg and has a criminal record, while people are bleeding to death in the streets of chechnya. i believe that the first task of europeans is to stand up for freedom and human rights. yesterday we celebrated the first meeting of our baltic colleagues. these baltic colleagues also owe their freedom to a chechen, general dudaev, who refused at the time to suppress the baltic freedom movement in bloodshed, as he had been ordered to do as a soviet officer! (applause from the centre)
- mr president, in the eu-lithuania joint parliamentary committee we had a detailed and critical discussion last week on the solution reached for kaliningrad. the solution was described by minister haarder as 'balanced' - i think it is balanced first and foremost for the sake of preserving russia's image and also for our own schengen purists. the commissioner said that the european union must secure its borders at all times and in all places. this sentence would have been signed by erich honecker, because the transit through lithuania will be more difficult for travellers than the transit through the gdr from west germany to west berlin. i think it is a disgrace for the european union 13 years after the fall of the wall. the practical inconveniences are passed on to the lithuanian border authorities and the travellers. due to the high potential for technical problems and the foreseeable complaints of those concerned, russia can always exploit the issue, including for other purposes. have you ever considered that the eastern side of this transit is not russia, but belarus? this country is not even in the considerations. what if relations between russia and mr lukashenko continue to deteriorate to the point that mr lukashenko takes advantage of this fact? then the whole scheme is not worth the paper it's written on. in practice, we can also imagine what it looks like when an application is made for a facilitated rail travel document. in extreme cases, you have to put your address on your ticket in khabarovsk, in the east of russia, in the hope that all of this will be forwarded to a central russian office, that it will then be forwarded to the lithuanian authorities, that they will process all of this in time, so that on the train, when the traveler arrives at the border, the lithuanian border officer will hopefully have the pass for the traveler. i can see how this will work in practice, with the administrative capacity of the russian authorities. i would therefore ask you to keep this matter under review and not to think that we can take it off the agenda now.
- mr president, i would like to emphasize that the van den burg report reaches the european parliament at the right time because we have to have this debate on supervision in europe. it is more important than ever to distinguish between the problem of supervision and the problem of regulation. i think it is right that mrs van den burg has taken a very open approach in her report. i also think it is right that it should examine the different models of supervision that we have in this european union without drawing up a final model. we must not allow the european parliament to be the arbiter of the decisions of the council of ministers, which is the only body that can do so. i therefore believe that this report provides us with a good basis for dialogue with the other institutions. i should like to focus on the problems we are facing in the context of the extension of the lamfalussy process, because this is primarily a matter of regulation. mr president-in-office of the council, you have rightly pointed out the need for financial integration, but also the need for financial stability. the european parliament cannot be surpassed in its position by any council or commission, because we believe that financial stability is indeed a public good and we must defend it as members of parliament. but we must also ask ourselves whether the procedures we have chosen are appropriate to help achieve this. when i think that i supported, with considerable stomach ache, an agreement that introduced the lamfalussy procedure in the field of securities regulation only nine months ago, it seems a little premature to debate or even to support the 'birth of the lamfalussy triplets' today, namely the extension of the procedure to the three new areas of banking, insurance and conglomerates. it is not just that i think we have no experience at all. you know as well as i do that the first lamfalussy directive on market abuse is far from being implemented and that the second is even still waiting to be brought to a common position. no, it is also because the commission has clearly admitted that it is not yet known what kind of legislative acts are in store for us. it is therefore very important that we get a commitment from you, the commission, and from you, the council, that the transparency requirement will be respected in any case if the lamfalussy procedure is extended. i think we've made progress here. i would like to say this explicitly on behalf of parliament. the transparency imperative is certainly central to a functioning democracy. but it is not just about institutionalising other transparency mechanisms. no, it is also about how to proceed further along the legislative road. i believe that the institutional balance in the legislative procedure is still not there and that we need to amend article 202. mr bolkestein has repeatedly pointed out to us that parliament always has the option of blocking another directive in the co-decision procedure. but we are not here to blockade. we're all about being constructive with each other. i therefore expect, mr president-in-office of the council, from the council of finance ministers and also from the european council in copenhagen, a political declaration that a change in the treaty is necessary in terms of secondary legislation, in terms of parliament's will to authorize, but also at the same time with the right of withdrawal, and that we will work towards this with all the legal implications that necessarily follow. there must be equality between the council and the european parliament as co-legislators. this is of central importance for the future of this parliamentary democracy, which we all want to shape through the convention and the 2004 intergovernmental conference.
- mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of taxation, which would be more effective in the case of the taxation of capital. the lamfalussy process was developed by the weisengruppe. the aim is to legislate better and faster. this was the original claim, why lamfalussy started this project, which was then supplemented by the report of wogau; we are fundamentally in favour of this project. however, the whole thing must also be measured by whether the objectives are achieved. the aim is to legislate faster and better, as has already been said. it is not primarily the fault of the european parliament that the legislation was not passed as quickly as desired, and certainly the council is called upon to go into itself. before we take up the issue of cesr lamfalussy expansion into other sectors, such as banking, insurance, conglomerates, we must first critically examine how cesr works today. is cesr effective today in the areas in which it operates? there are still many questions and open criticisms to be heard from the market sectors. i think we should first of all ask the question of transparency, whether it makes sense for cesr to start working in parallel with draft directives. the question is whether we want to accept it in this form. there are two hearts beating in my chest. on the one hand, i am opposed, as a matter of principle, to cesr working in parallel with a draft directive. we have that in the prospectus directive at the moment. the committee of the regions has already taken a number of decisions on the subject. on the other hand, i am actually grateful that cesr is working in parallel, because we are getting an early indication of what is being thought and we may be able to apply the emergency brake in the legislative process. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i have the impression that all this is a technical detail which, from the commission's point of view, the average member does not understand! that would be a relatively large number. but we should not forget that in the technical details - and basel ii has already been mentioned - there is also political potential, explosive material which will only become apparent after a certain period of time. we must therefore not only think about article 202, but we must change it. i would have expected more courageous words from the presidency today. the council and parliament must be able to speak with such boldness and clarity, at the latest in copenhagen, to make it clear that they are on an equal footing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take the matter up with the council. there will be discussions, serious arguments, and we do not want to have a black peter game in this area! that is why copenhagen is a good opportunity to set an example for article 202. the same applies - and i would like to support commissioner bolkestein here - to the question of the future role of the commission. the commission must maintain its central role. it is the one that implements and pursues the interests of europe as a whole. finally, a sentence on integrated financial supervision in europe. we must ensure that regional circumstances are taken into account. i can therefore largely agree with mrs villiers that we do not have integrated financial supervision in this area at the moment. we must of course also consider how large european companies will operate in this field in the future. i see good examples here in the conglomerate directive and the way forward.
president of the council. - mr president, i must say that the good views and considerations which i have just heard have convinced me that the european parliament and the council have a common interest in finding a solution to the question of the extension of the lamfalussy procedure. as far as i can see, we agree on the substance of the problem we are trying to solve. we agree that we need financial stability, effective harmonisation of legislation in this area and effective cooperation and convergence between financial supervisory authorities. and i understand that the commission's report on the growth potential of the financial sector through the implementation of the new structures has been noted, that is to say that we can contribute to growth and employment. the council and parliament share a responsibility for the major problems we see in the member states in these areas. and then i have a few individual remarks, particularly to mr herzog, who says that i have meant or expressed that i was in favour of a unitary inspection. i must have been vague on that point, because i am not in favour of unitary supervision. we are in favour of national supervision, that is to say a national solution, and then we must cooperate within the eu. this is not a unitary inspection. and i can say to mrs van den burg that i understand her views on the content. and as for the remark that the council should look more at market structures, i can say that we want to get out of the dilemma that has characterized the past attempts to solve problems while discussing market structures. we want to signal that we respect parliament and its role. we mention it in order to put an end to the endless power struggles between parliament and the council. we each have our own responsibilities to deal with, whether we are elected to the european parliament or we are elected to national parliaments and are members of a government. i understand the different wishes of this parliament, and i would have them too if i were a member of the european parliament. i think they're perfectly legitimate. the problem is simply that when you say, as mrs kauppi says, that the ecofin council can only decide to amend the treaty, that is not possible. it would also be a bad principle if the ecofin council had those powers. i therefore feel it necessary to point out that the amendment of the treaty belongs to the convention and subsequently to the intergovernmental conference. what i can offer is that we take this seriously and that we in the ecofin council do what we can, but that we also tell our heads of state very clearly what the positions are in the european parliament, because the ecofin council does not have a voice in the convention, but our heads of state do, the countries do, and we should take advantage of this opportunity. it also makes me say to mr blokland that the european parliament has the means, since our wish is that the directives should be equipped with the same 'sunset clause' as we know from the securities market. and that means that there will be a review in 2004. and if you do not agree with what the convention comes to, or what the governments come to at the intergovernmental conference, then these directives will be dropped. and parliament has that opportunity. i would simply like to call for the position to take account of what the ecofin council is able to do and deliver, and then to call for the responsibility we have to make the capital markets work effectively so that we can each make a contribution to growth and employment in europe. i would like to thank you very much for the debate, and for the views i am going to convey.
commission. – mr president, i gather from the various interventions made this afternoon on this subject that there is general acceptance of the extension of the lamfalussy procedure into new areas such as banking, insurance companies and conglomerates. there are differences of opinion about how precisely that ought to be done, but the general principle seems to be accepted, which is a good thing. many members of this house have mentioned the matter of article 202. this is only natural, and in my first speech this afternoon i indicated that the commission agrees with parliament on this point and that the commission has been quite clear. having made these two points, perhaps i may go into further detail as to what the members of parliament have said. firstly mrs van den burg said that she wants a practical approach – which is always a good thing – and i would certainly agree with her on that. she wants more cooperation and more supervision, but as part of a steady process and not all at once. again i agree with her. she supported the commission, saying that it ought to be strong, and i would not disagree with that statement. indeed, a strong commission is necessary in order to preserve the institutional balance. she then mentioned the intriguing subject of the enabling clause, and whether there should not be an enabling clause in the convention or igc. from the debate this afternoon i notice that there is a difference of opinion on that subject. mrs villiers is very much against. mrs kauppi is very much in favour and mr radwan, like mrs villiers, is also against, so the score is two against two – at least in this debate. we should follow mrs van den burg's careful approach because the present treaty already contains points which may be used by the ecb to do a lot of important work in this area. these concern the interface between macroeconomic developments and microeconomic solutions and you will find the text in article 105(6) of the eu treaty. there is no obstacle, at least on the part of the ecb, to it doing this work. the whole subject will have to be thoroughly considered in the years to come and the lamfalussy procedure is essential for that particular point. in parallel to that discussion, the supervisors must cooperate more actively than at present. as for myself, i remain somewhat sceptical about that enabling clause. it does not commit you to anything. however, let us wait and see how these things develop. i am very much aware of the various sensibilities of supervisors in this area, so let us remember the good old british saying: that fools rush in where angels fear to tread. i then come to mr karas, who unfortunately has had to leave. he calls the lamfalussy procedure the lamfalussy-von wogau process. i shall allow him to attach the name of a member of his party to this process, although i would rather call it the lamfalussy-randzio-plath process. however, that is a detail and i do not wish to be controversial. he said that it is a temporary solution. mr huhne also mentioned this, referring to the 'sunset clause' and so on. i agree. it will come under discussion again in the 2004 igc. however, let us use the time between now and then to clarify our thoughts and to agree as far as possible on the best way forward. mrs randzio-plath said that it is too early. that is an argument that she has used before. let me repeat what i said earlier. it seems to me that we should start relatively soon to prepare for the decisions ahead. new committees and new structures will need to be set up. new legal acts will be required and all that takes time. as i have already said, it will also shape the type of directives which we aim to bring forward. we must also take into account the need to advance so that we have efficient decision-making structures before enlargement. mrs randzio-plath repeated the same arguments that other members of parliament have used, i.e. there must be equality between the council and parliament and the change to article 202. i agree with her. mr huhne also expressed his support for the extension of the lamfalussy procedure. he mentioned its temporary nature and pointed to the 'sunset clause'. he thought parliament should have the possibility of calling back implementing measures. that hangs together with the equality between the council and parliament, and i cannot but agree with him. mr blokland asked me how i could be certain that there would the same independence of supervisors in the candidate countries as we have ourselves. he is right to say that independent supervision in all candidate countries is of great importance. furthermore, we have been examining the systems and the organisations of the candidate countries with the supervisors of all member states over the past four years with precisely that aim in mind. may i also say that quite considerable progress has been made by the candidate countries. we must realise they have come a long way and made quite considerable progress, even though not everything is as it should be in certain areas. therefore we must monitor the developments in the candidate countries because there is an essential need for an independent regulatory and supervisory agency there. we have organised a programme of cooperation so that we can help candidate countries improve the quality of their supervision. mrs villiers devoted much of her time to opposing the decision to steer the developments in the direction of having a single european supervisor. i have already spoken about that issue and, as far as the commission is concerned, it will defer to parliament and it can take a decision. the commission itself would leave this matter somewhat in abeyance. mr radwan spoke about cesar and asked how cesar was working. to this i would like to say that cesar is a new organisation which needs time to develop itself and to find a proper way of acting. as far as i know cesar has already accomplished remarkable things in the short time it has been in existence. i have indeed heard some criticism and complaints about cesar – i stress the word 'some' – which i have drawn attention to. the complaints basically refer to its lack of transparency and consultation. i have made those points and i remain convinced that cesar will become a very useful committee which we can all make use of. this is also why we have the interinstitutional monitoring group. mrs randzio-plath, myself and others have decided to establish this interinstitutional monitoring group so that complaints, such as those mentioned by mr radwan, can be dealt with in a proper manner. mr medina ortega has made reference to certain scandals in the country which he knows best. he has said that only democratically elected representatives should have the possibility of calling back implementing measures. this is the same argument which has been made by others and, as i have said, i can only agree with him. then i would like to congratulate mrs kauppi on her use of language – the expression 'mumbo jumbo' is not often used in parliament but it is very colourful and it explains precisely what she means. that is always a good thing, after all, what would we do if there were no clarity in what we said? she wants the call-back rights for parliament which we discussed earlier. she also says that there must be a political will in council. let us not be distracted by 'mumbo jumbo' is what she has said. i must refer mrs kauppi to the president of council, minister pedersen, present here tonight. she also says there should be a more active transatlantic dialogue and i can assure her that dialogue exists and is active. in particular, the director general for competition, mr alex schaub, has just come back from washington today where he has these discussions on capitol hill in congress about the so-called sarbanes-oxley act which indeed presents a lot of problems to european auditing companies and other companies quoted on us stock exchanges. i myself will be visiting washington in a few weeks' time and i intend to discuss these matters with the chairman or acting chairman of the securities exchange commission. this would be a continuation of the discussion we had with mr harvey pitt in brussels about a month ago. that discussion was very fruitful. unfortunately, as we all know, he has now resigned and we shall have to pick up the thread where we left it when he visited brussels. however, i can assure mrs kauppi that this dialogue is essential because we want to achieve this great big transatlantic integrated market for financial services. we cannot do without it, but those relations should be on the basis of reciprocity and mutual recognition. i can assure all members of parliament that it is a top priority in my view to join with the united states in a programme of convergence. that is what i would like to say to members of parliament who have spoken tonight. lastly, mr katiforis has enjoined the commission to be cautious. i am certainly cautious in all i do. so i would like to reassure mr katiforis in this regard.
- the next item is the report (a5-0373/2002) by mrs keppelhoff-wiechert, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on additives for use in animal nutrition (com (2002) 153 - c5-0143/2002 - 2002/0073 (cod)). transmission of the council's common positions: see minutes.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking the commission for this overall very positive proposal on additives in animal nutrition, which i welcome on the whole. i would also like to thank the danish presidency and my colleagues on the environment, public health and consumer affairs committees and the agriculture and rural development committees. the present proposal consolidates the existing provisions on additives in animal nutrition. the commission also intends to clarify the procedural aspects of the evaluation of a dossier and the corresponding authorisation procedures, and to make them more transparent for both the manufacturer and the consumer. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to discuss the matter with the council. this ban is not arbitrary but is based on the opinions of the scientific committee for food. this ban also follows a public demand from medical professionals. since cross-resistance to human preparations can no longer be excluded, action is needed in the sense of preventive consumer protection. pressure must be exerted in the form of a temporary authorisation, pressure to develop other methods, such as suitable vaccines. i agree with the commission's proposal in principle. i also do not think it is appropriate, in view of the antibiotic problem, to issue a blank cheque for the unlimited use of coccidiostats in the future. it is not plausible that antibiotics should be banned for health reasons, but these health arguments do not apply in the case of the use of coccidiostats. the committee on agriculture and rural development, which is in charge of the programme, wants to allow coccidiostats and histomonostats until 2008. the commission should then present a report on the use of these substances before 1 january 2008, together with a proposal on their further use thereafter. what are the differences of opinion? amendment no 2 concerns the importation of additives from third countries for use in animal feed. in order to protect human and animal health, import regulations must be applied and controlled at least as strictly as those in the member states. with amendments nos 4, 7 and 9 i am very much in favour of guidelines for the authorization of feed additives. i call on the commission to draw up and present, in cooperation with the european food safety authority, guidelines for the authorization of feed additives. the committee on agriculture and rural development has clearly expressed its support for guidelines in its vote on simplifying the authorization of additives. after an additive has been authorised, it should be sufficient to update the dossier regularly rather than re-examining it completely every time. parliament calls for mixtures and premixes with flavourings and appetizers. they must be exempted from the labelling requirement. this explicitly excludes flavourings and appetising substances with a quantitative restriction for use in feed and drinking water. there are, of course, calls in this house to restrict the use of coccidiostats to veterinary prescriptions in future. i am of the opinion - and i say this from practical experience - that we must have preventive health protection for animals too. there is a kind of animal welfare, and it is clear that an animal that is already sick will need to be treated with much higher doses. i cannot understand this from practical experience. as regards the ban on the four antibiotics still authorised by 2006, i would like to say to you, commissioner byrne, that my amendment no 31 is a reasonable compromise proposal in this respect. finally, a heartfelt thank you to all those who have worked so hard on this subject!
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the issue of animal nutrition is a constant topic here in the european parliament. we have been very successful in shaping eu feed law in recent years. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of animals used for human consumption. today we are going to take a new leap in the world of additives in animal feed. the socialist group supports many of the points raised by the rapporteur, such as the ban on antibiotics, etc. she has done a very good job and has been open to many of our suggestions. i would like to thank her for that. the report is therefore, on the whole, satisfactory. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the use of coccidiostats and histomonostats in animal feed is not restricted to additives, but that in the long term they are covered by veterinary legislation. we must be consistent here. if we ban antibiotics in animal feed in general, we cannot immediately make an exception for one category of product. the commission has not yet taken a decision on this. in the case of coccidiostats, controlled administration must be carried out on prescription by a veterinarian who is familiar with the situation on the holding concerned and able to react appropriately. otherwise, the general prophylactic use of these products, which are also antibiotics, may mask any hygiene problems that may exist in the establishments. i am firmly opposed to the idea that i want to open up a new source of income for veterinarians. we have tabled amendments on this subject, and i would ask you to support them. the second point concerns the duration of the authorization. we support an unlimited authorization, provided that the safety of the products is not affected. therefore, a re-evaluation of additives should be carried out every 10 years, taking into account current studies and research data. this means reliability for the applicants on the one hand and safety for the animals and consumers on the other.
commission. – mr president, i certainly have no intention of keeping you here until midnight. allow me to explain my position on the major points of this proposal and in particular the differences which in some cases still remain between our institutions. concerning the date for the phasing out of antibiotics, i am happy to note that the commission's approach has your broad support. but there are some slight differences concerning the date of withdrawal of authorisations. the scientific advice on which this risk management measure is taken mentions the need for a transitional period to allow for animal rearing practices to adapt and also for the development of alternative antibiotics. for these practical reasons, i cannot accept the amendment which envisages the phasing out of antibiotics from 1 january 2005, despite my recognition of parliament's desire to get rid of antibiotics in animal nutrition as soon as possible. i agree with that sentiment but would add that this should be in accordance with scientific opinion and should take account of possible effects on animal health and welfare. concerning the external dimension of the phasing out process, let me clarify my position. this has been raised by a number of people, including mr parish and mrs doyle. the prohibition of antibiotics will also apply to feed imports. with respect to the imports of food of animal origin, the residues testing system currently in place will be used to check for the use of banned substances. this testing system protects human health, since it is designed to reveal residues of medicines, additives and substances in food at levels that present an unacceptable risk to the consumer. it is not sufficient to verify whether forbidden substances were used in the feeding of animals in third countries, as the residues of such substances may not be present at the time of importation. i welcome any suggestion that may be made to increase the resources of the fvo and particularly welcome that observation from a member of the budgetary authority. i believe that the control of imported products and the condition of equivalency between eu rules and third country rules on the rearing of animals should be considered under horizontal legislation. the commission will propose a regulation on feed and food controls that will impose rules on this issue. that proposal will take account of your concerns. the draft legislation we are discussing today aims only – and i stress only – to lay down rules for the authorisation of safe additives. on the time limit of the authorisations, i repeat what i said in my introductory statement: i cannot accept anything other than time-limited authorisations for all feed additives. as regards the status of coccidiostats, i am aware that some take the view that coccidiostats should only be authorised as veterinary medicinal drugs and not as feed additives. i refer to the point made by mr kindermann in this regard. my position is that the rules imposed by this proposal will ensure that coccidiostats are used in a safe manner, respecting human and animal health. precipitate action, not allowing enough time for the authorisation of the same kind of substances as veterinary drugs, or the setting of a cut-off date without prior assessment, would have disastrous consequences for animal production, animal health and animal welfare. i am pleased that a number of you agreed with that proposal. i am willing for a report to be drawn up on this matter, but i cannot agree to a cut-off date for the authorisations. concerning the introduction of flexibility in the authorisation procedure, some amendments improve the commission's proposal as they take account of the needs of minor species and non-food producing animals. the setting of specific conditions for data protection when applying for authorisations for minor species is another welcome amendment. the commission can accept these amendments. however, it is necessary to recognise the impossibility of making special rules for all types of additives and for all animal categories. in conclusion, i would like again to thank the rapporteur and members of parliament for broadly supporting the policy initiated by the commission which protects public health while taking proper account of animal health, animal welfare and agricultural production needs. parliament's secretariat is being provided with a full list of the commission’s position on each of the amendments. i trust that this will be included in the record for this sitting commission's position on amendments: see annex..
- i shall give the floor to the rapporteur briefly.
the rapporteur. mr president, the commissioner must listen to me, otherwise i have no use for this.
- then talk to him directly, right now, it's maybe easier!
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i believe that the only way you have solved the problem of imports from third countries is by introducing stricter controls on imports of animal feed. but mrs doyle and mr parish were talking about the end product. the fact is that we have finished products from these countries in our freezers all over europe. we therefore ask ourselves to what extent we must control, reject or tolerate distortions of competition with the european community.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the report (a5-0365/2002) by mr nistico, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 2001/83/ec as regards traditional herbal medicinal products (com (2002) 1 - c5-0026/2002 - 2002/0008 (cod)).
commission. – mr president, i wish to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr nisticò, as well as the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, for the work and effort they have put into this report. mr nisticò is a well-known expert in the field, but it has been quite a challenge for me and my services. let me start with the objectives. what are the main objectives of this proposal? there are three. first and foremost, to guarantee a high level of health protection for european patients. they will have access to the medicines of their choice, as long as all necessary safeguards are met. secondly, to promote the single market for herbal medicines. laying down harmonised rules and procedures will facilitate the cross-border trade in herbal medicines, which currently is very limited. thirdly, to create a clear and favourable environment for the mainly small and medium-sized companies working in this sector. as far as specific proposals are concerned, i will concentrate on three key issues. first, the scope of the new simplified procedure. the use of herbal medicines is a long-standing tradition in europe. back in the middle ages they were already well known and widely used. for new medicines, providing fresh scientific data is indispensable if patients are to be treated with safe medicines. but if we already know enough about a medicine, new pre-clinical and clinical tests impose an unnecessary burden and unnecessary testing on humans and animals. to protect the patient’s health, the information on the product’s traditional use must be reliable enough to enable us to conclude that the product is safe. such information exists for many traditional herbal medicines. for that reason, the new procedure should initially be limited to herbal medicines. secondly, the minimum period of use. to ensure that the information is soundly based, we consider that 30 years should enable us to decide whether the product can be considered safe and effective. the assessment has to be for use in the eu. i stress this because the effects of a medicine depend on the setting in which the product is used as well as on the product itself. as a rule, therefore, the product should have been used for 30 years within the eu. at the same time, we recognise that there are important medicinal traditions outside the eu. for that reason, we propose that up to 15 years of the use can be outside the community. finally, the new scientific committee. herbal medicines are different from other categories of pharmaceuticals in various respects. for some years now, an informal working group has been working on herbal medicines at the european medicines evaluation agency. our proposal offers an opportunity to establish an explicit legal basis for this working group and to give it a clear mandate for herbal medicinal products. this will also allow us to rely on specific national expertise to ensure quality, safety and efficacy of herbal medicines on a european level. at the same time it helps to improve the free circulation of these medicines. i am looking forward to the debate in the house today and call on the european parliament to support this initiative.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. you're absolutely right. we have a great deal of experience in dealing with traditional medicines. this is a matter which is becoming increasingly important to consumers in the european union. i think it is time to create a harmonized legal framework for traditional herbal medicines. for too long, trade in traditional products in the community has been hampered by differences in national requirements. i believe that the directive as it stands will correct this misunderstanding, thanks also to the excellent work of the rapporteur, mr nisticò. let me address two points which are particularly important to me. firstly, the creation of a new committee on herbal medicines within the european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products. i think it is necessary. i also think it is good that the commission is taking this approach. one of the main tasks of the committee will be to draw up a list of plant-based substances. i also think that the mere division into different groups, as the committee is calling for, is particularly important. i would particularly like to see a further division of labour. the so-called 'well-established medical use' plant protection products should be included in the group of rational plant protection products. the significance of this distinction is briefly explained: in the case of well-established use phytopharmaceuticals, the evidence for an application may already be provided by monographs representing the generally available knowledge. this type of evidence does not collect extract-specific data. the situation is different in the case of the rational plant protection companies. they shall demonstrate this by providing specific extract-related data describing the exact effect of the individual extract. in order to avoid distortions of competition - and i attach particular importance to this - the manufacturer who has carried out costly research into the effects of rational plant protection products should be allowed to make his particular efforts in the context of authorization visible for the benefit of the consumer and his better information.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. herbal medicines have been used throughout the world for centuries. in europe too, consumer interest has long since outgrown the regional household resources. whether it's chinese ginseng root or indian tea tree oil, many citizens swear by natural products. however, there is still no uniform regulation of herbal medicines in the european union. in some member states they must be authorized, in others a simple demonstration of efficacy is sufficient. mr nisticò has presented a very good report which creates broadly uniform rules for the manufacture, marketing and labelling of herbal medicines and sets high standards of quality and safety. the following points are of particular importance. first of all, quality and safety. the manufacturers of herbal medicines must demonstrate their safety to the same extent as chemical medicines. in the simplified authorization procedure, the proof of the efficacy and safety of a product is sufficiently substantiated by a long - and traditional - period of use. we also need a new committee on herbal medicines at the emea. this committee is to be responsible for all tasks relating to herbal medicines. it will produce plant monographs for the purpose of accurate but rapid assessment of applications for authorization. with this proposal, we are not only ensuring broadly uniform conditions for authorisation in europe, we are also making it easier to market herbal medicines in all member states while respecting subsidiarity. european consumers can continue to choose from a wide range of products, from products duly submitted by the manufacturer and carefully examined and authorised by the authority. this ensures the quality of the products and the greatest possible protection of human health.
- thank you very much, mr liikanen! the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0356/2002) by mrs van den burg, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the working conditions of temporary agency workers (com (2002) 149 - c5-0140/2002 - 2002/0072 (cod)).
the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities has adopted an opinion. - mr president, i have to go. in the fight against mass unemployment, more flexible working models must be found. the contribution of temporary work is increasing. successful placement of temporary work increases the chances of permanent employment. this applies to low-skilled, long-term unemployed people, but also to specialists. in my opinion for the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, we refer to the charter of fundamental rights. we have included in the draft directive the safeguarding of maternity protection and the need for parental leave. we are against any discrimination, whether in pay for equal work or work of equal value, or in the form of discrimination on grounds of sex, whether in the case of temporary workers compared with similar permanent workers. it was important to us that temporary workers were not used to break strikes or to contribute to the drastic reduction of full-time jobs or regular staff. more than three quarters of temporary workers are still men. the reason for women's absence is the difficulty of reconciling work and family life. in this context, temporary agency work in particular provides the desired individual adjustment and offers women good opportunities for entering or re-entering the workforce. however, there are problems in practice. in germany, personnel service agencies are now being set up at the employment offices, which are tax-subsidized public bodies and bear no risk. this is to the detriment of the selfemployed temporary agency. the federal government is not implementing the supposedly groundbreaking concepts one by one as promised, madam rapporteur, but is diluting them. the aim is to ensure that temporary workers earn the same as the employees of the company from the first day. however, equal pay from the outset and exclusively collective bargaining structures prevent temporary work. my proposal to introduce a six-month deadline at european level was unfortunately not supported by a majority. in the epp group we will then develop a compromise which takes due account of the different rules of the member states and respects subsidiarity.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. after many months of intensive work, we can now vote for the first time in plenary on the draft directive on temporary work. all those who have dealt with this issue have tried to find the best possible solution for temporary workers, temporary work companies and a favourable economic development in our eu member states. it's been a rough road to get to this point. i thank all those who have helped us to present a fairly good compromise today. in view of the fact that there are some 10 million unemployed in the european union and the economic situation is unstable, we must be careful not to close down an entire sector of the labour market with the good intention of guaranteeing temporary workers basic social security. it would be completely absurd to speak of temporary work as an atypical or even unworthy form of work. temporary work can help newcomers to orient themselves for the future, or prevent exit from working life or facilitate re-entry into work for workers who are difficult to find. my group attaches particular importance to flexibility in this area of work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted. if we are guided in tomorrow's vote by the principle of subsidiarity and by the idea of active economic promotion, which creates the basis for more jobs, we will leave the member states of the european union more room for their flexible, individual labour market development, which is not incompatible with adequate labour protection. the measures in germany concerning temporary agency work lead to a dead end. i hope we can create a better framework here.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. most member states already have laws on temporary agency work or collective agreements, but they vary widely in quality. the german law in particular was not as simple as it is now claimed to be, and it was not accepted by the public, either by employers or by employees. i should like to mention some of the curious features of the german restrictions: the ban on synchronisation, the limitation to 12 months, the limitation period, the ban on the construction industry. i therefore consider it a very courageous and important step that the german government, the german parliament, has already included the european directive currently under discussion in the qualitative improvements for germany. it was not acceptable that the workers in germany were paid up to 40% less than the regular workforce. it is not surprising, then, that the whole industry has such a miserable image. that's what we're trying to change. but it is interesting that the highest levels of social acceptance and, incidentally, the highest growth in temporary agency work are found in those member states where the principle of equality prevails, namely france and the netherlands. of course, employers also want social acceptance. the main reason for using temporary workers, as our dublin foundation has found out, is not cost savings but flexibility in dealing with seasonal shortages, staff fluctuations and sometimes extended probationary periods. this is precisely what the european directive with its amendments by ike van den burg makes possible. the necessary flexibility is also ensured by collective bargaining. let us show, by adopting this legislation tomorrow, that social europe really exists!
- ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is suspended for two minutes; we shall resume afterwards. (the sitting was suspended at 11.06 p.m. and resumed at 11.08 p.m.) )
- mr. crowley wants to comment on the procedure.
- that 's a great idea .
the commission. i would like to begin, mr president, with three general comments. firstly, several of the honourable members referred to the issue of subsidiarity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. at a time when national markets are becoming increasingly european and enlargement is imminent, it is clear that the diversity of labour laws and the different types of rights from country to country are creating distortions in the internal market. the need for a common and flexible framework is therefore obvious, as in all other areas of labour law. the second comment i would like to make is whether we have done an impact assessment of this directive. i would remind you that the directive concerns 1.5% to 2% of the working population in europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we have taken note of the report by the ciett, the international confederation of agencies, which very clearly states that these same companies need labour legislation to solve the problems that usually arise in terms of pay and working conditions and to help develop the sector, which in many countries is particularly badly burdened. this is a very clear reference to the netherlands and the dutch model, a model which has managed to combine flexibility with social security and worker protection, where we have some of the largest and most successful companies in the field of temporary employment. there were significant references to the bureaucratic burden of the model. i'd say that's completely wrong. the legislation does not introduce any new procedure for the recruitment or transfer of workers. the existing system is maintained in each country. flexibility, as it has been interpreted in europe at least, means a set of policies and practices that help the enterprise, the worker, the public sector, the legislation, to adapt to the new needs of production. flexibility cannot be interpreted as fewer or no rights as a precondition for job creation. there have been specific reports in the uk that there will be job cuts, etc. the difference that will emerge in this country is that there will probably be a slight increase in labour costs in terms of the minimum social rights that, according to the british labour market situation, these workers should have. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. there are two kinds of amendments. the first category concerns the clarification of the sentence and the addition of some definitions. the second concerns the amendment of the substance of the proposal by adding or deleting certain important provisions. the first category: i welcome the proposed new title. i think it's a much better way of giving the directive. i agree with the amendment which aims to give more full play to the triangular relationship between employee, agency and user company which is inherent in temporary employment. we support the amendments which give new definitions to the temporary worker, through the temporary agency, the user undertaking and the temporary agency. the amendments which clarify the text are also accepted. the proposed definition of the term 'placement' is more precise. the new wording on the categories of workers which member states cannot exclude from the scope of the directive is much better. i agree with the addition about the means by which temporary workers will be informed of vacancies in the user company. i also think it is useful to mention that a company may receive reasonable compensation for the services it has provided to the user company, and that at the same time the workers are not burdened with paying the company if they enter into a contract with the user company for an indefinite period at the end of their placement. the amendment which proposes a recast with a clearer reference to social services is accepted. i also welcome the reference to collective agreements as regards the representation of workers, because it is true that such representation can be defined by collective agreements. i agree with the amendment which provides that member states must ensure that both workers and their representatives have adequate means of paying the obligations arising from this directive. as regards amendments to the substance of the proposal, by adding or deleting certain important provisions, i shall distinguish between those which can be accepted and those which should be rejected. i welcome the amendment which extends the scope for suspending restrictions and prohibitions on temporary agency work. this field is very limited in the proposal for a directive, since it concerns only restrictions or prohibitions relating to certain categories of workers or certain sectors. and it is clearly the spirit of the amendment that is intended to ensure that company employees are not used to replace workers who are involved in collective action, strikes, etc. that is accepted. i also find the new wording of the anti-discrimination principle very interesting and i believe it is clearer and easier to focus on the working conditions that temporary workers would enjoy if they had been hired directly by the user company. i can accept that the exemption from indefinite contracts is limited to wages only, but i cannot accept that this derogation should be extended to cover fixed-term contracts. nor can we accept the abolition of the six-week period, which allows in some countries for the use of company employees for a very short period of time and for minor tasks. it's a piece of information that will help substantially with the whole negotiation. in conclusion, i can accept the following amendments in their entirety: 1, 4, 22, 28, 33, 43, 46, 47, 48, 51, 52, 85 and 92. i can accept part of the amendments or the spirit of those amendments after they have been restated. the other amendments are rejected. i would like to thank all of you for the effort you have made to draft a new text which will facilitate the final adoption of the directive, which is certainly a difficult directive, politically and technically. i would like to congratulate mrs van den burg again and encourage the danish presidency to take all the necessary steps to reach agreement in the council on 3 december.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0359/2002) by mrs damião, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the communication from the commission on life sciences and biotechnology - a strategy for europe (com (2002) 27 final - c5-0260/2002 - 2002/2123 (cos)).
commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs damião, in her absence, and i agree with what mr lage has just said about a report that voices strong and clear support for the responsible development of life sciences and biotechnology in europe. i also warmly welcome the fact that the report has been produced on the basis of broad political agreement. this report marks a very important step: biotechnology is the next wave of the knowledge-based economy and biotechnology research is crucial for strengthening european competitiveness in this field. there is a growing realisation among europeans that this technology is important for our future competitiveness and welfare. a consensus is emerging on how we might strengthen its development in a manner consistent with our european values and ethical standards. we are faced with a policy choice: either stand aside and see these technologies developed elsewhere, or exploit them ourselves in a responsible manner and to the benefit of european citizens. as was made clear in the report that mr purvis submitted to parliament last spring, biotechnology is an enabling technology. it affects, or can even transform, broad areas such as healthcare, environmental protection, agriculture and food and industrial production processes. it can be a source of innovation for new and established companies alike, and it offers unique approaches to finally solving problems, for example in the fields of healthcare and novel pharmaceuticals. europe cannot afford to miss out on the benefits biotechnology will bring. members of the european commission under the leadership of president prodi have worked together to provide a strategy that encompasses all the various applications of biotechnology, but also tries to enable us to come up with coherent answers to the more difficult questions and choices we are faced with. the commission’s communication on 'life sciences and biotechnology: a strategy for europe' builds upon the common knowledge base in life sciences and will lead to skills-based jobs that sustain the economies of the future. we propose a number of actions for the promotion of biotechnology development in europe, and at the same time, further measures for responsible governance, to ensure that this development takes place in accordance with our societal values and needs. the sixth framework programme for research and technological development, under the leadership of commissioner busquin, will provide substantial support for the supply of skilled resources and for overcoming the fragmentation of research and lack of critical mass. we need to ensure that research results can be protected by means of harmonised intellectual property protection, and translated into commercial products and processes through effective innovation and technology transfer. the strategy also stresses the need to overcome the previous fragmentation in the commercial development of biotechnology in europe and several actions will contribute to linking up researchers, emerging companies, service providers and financial institutions. the present downturn in the capital markets and the lack of risk capital needs particular and urgent attention. the success of the biotechnology strategy will only be assured if the technology is built on a basis of societal trust. it is vital for developments, and in particular public policy-making, to take place with a maximum of transparency. we need to encourage public dialogue throughout europe to ensure that societal goals are met and public concerns are addressed. the strategy pursues the overarching goal of enhancing coherence between policies at the different levels. in this way, we can give proper, broad consideration to policy decisions that have an impact on our competitiveness and the future prosperity of our societies.the commission has started implementing measures in its own areas of responsibility. we will shortly publish the first regular report on the stage reached in this implementation work. however, this strategy will only work well if we all – european institutions, member states, regions, industry, academia and civil society alike – now make commitments according to our respective responsibilities and resources. the adoption of parliament's report and the forthcoming council conclusions will provide the essential political backing for the effective implementation of the strategy at european level.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on agriculture and rural development. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i very much welcome the commission's aim of restoring europe's leading role in life sciences and biotechnology research. the proposed strategy is, however, far below expectations. i would therefore like to thank mrs damião for the comprehensive report which gives substance to the commission's strategy paper in many areas. europe must once again play an active role in order to keep up with this cutting-edge technology. this is particularly true of the so-called green genetic engineering - that is, the agricultural sector. the basic prerequisite is the creation of an effective, predictable and stable regulatory environment for both agriculture and the biotech industry in europe. in particular, they must be consistent with wto rules and ensure the coexistence of all forms of agricultural production. the abolition of the de facto moratorium on authorization is the prerequisite for greater planning certainty for businesses and agriculture. the moratorium is particularly damaging to innovative smes in europe and is contrary to the lisbon objectives. the commission and the european institutions will pursue a targeted european policy in favour of beurope. following the successful eeurope approach, the same priorities could be pursued across different directorates-general in the commission. other important issues include: encouraging the development of biotechnology clusters and other technology transfer models; access to risk capital, particularly for biotechnology research start-ups and smes; the establishment of a european patent; a transparent and scientifically based information policy on the part of public authorities, business and science.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. i would first of all like to express my best wishes to mrs damião for her continued recovery. i would like to thank her and her staff, but also mr lage, for the good cooperation. the epp-ed group supports the damião report not least because the whole thing, the action plan and the report, is based on a report by our group colleague john purvis. the damião report is a positive signal for biotechnology, but it also makes it clear where we need better rules than we have so far. the report is clearly against black and white painting. there is a perception that genetic engineering may be very good for health care but it is definitely bad for agriculture. the report contradicts this position. we are saying quite clearly that there are opportunities in both areas, which means that there are also great opportunities in agriculture. the report even says that genetic engineering can contribute to sustainable development, and i would like to emphasize this point. that is why we are against the de facto moratorium. the directive on the release of prisoners has been adopted a long time ago. the member states should have transposed them into national law by october. i was on the mediation committee with david bowe at the time, and i never dreamed that we would still have this de facto moratorium after all these years. the report says it must end by 2003. i think it should end now because the deadline for transposing directive 220/90 has already expired. the smes in particular are the ones who suffer too much. mrs müller has already said that. just as in agriculture there are not only risks but also great benefits, so in the application of medicine there are not only benefits but also great dangers. we see a danger in the uncontrolled use of dna testing, for example. dna testing is not a service like any other. they must be carried out only after competent, professional, independent and personal advice, and this advice must include medical, ethical, social, psychological and legal aspects. our group commissioned an expert report a year ago. this opinion states that the european union has a competence in this area. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. that is why we need standards in this area, quality standards and standards, for example, in relation to consultancy. the commission has a task, and i ask the commission to do what the report says, namely to bring legislation into being.
- mr president, i have to go. i can readily join the speakers who have spoken before me, and i also assume that the majority will be in favour of the damião report tomorrow. there are a number of reasons for this. biotechnology is certainly the key technology of the future, and i agree with the commissioner that some will realise this sooner, others a little later. but i'm sure it will. biotechnology will also help us to achieve sustainable development, and i agree with mr liese on this point. i would like to add one more reason, because biotechnology does not work with classical thermodynamics, but with irreversible thermodynamics, that is, with small potential differences and therefore very high efficiency. otherwise we wouldn't be getting so old, or we'd be blessing the temporal at 15. so, there are many advantages to biotechnology. this has been recognized in many areas. red biotechnology is now widely accepted, even by large sections of the green party. the problem is: how do we deal with green biotechnology? it may also be because many in europe say they don't need it, they have enough to eat, the problem is distribution, not new products. in developing countries, however, the picture is very different. for example, whether i have a product that can be produced with little water, whether i have rice that contains certain vitamins, is also a matter of survival for many people in developing countries. we may use our large funds to buy other products. this means that the development of biotechnology, including green biotechnology, in europe could help many others as well. i would like to make one point, however, which has been misunderstood in part by our own group. it was said that we had the right to use biotechnology to fight world hunger. that's not what it says here. we are saying that biotechnology alone cannot defeat world hunger, and that other measures, such as better distribution of available food, are much more important. it's right here. so i want to clear up this misunderstanding from the start. but it can do its part to reduce world hunger. i want to say one last thing: the conflict we have here in parliament is not that we do not accept the damião report tomorrow, but that we then vote differently in the legislative procedures. i therefore call for a much deeper dialogue on these issues both in parliament and with the commission. otherwise we will continue to live with this dichotomy which is so difficult to deal with. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, we are constantly told that in the field of biotechnology we are actually talking about genetic technology, but that this is not stated clearly. for more than 20 years, we have been making promises that cannot be kept in reality. genetically modified food and agricultural products are a failure. they are not wanted by consumers. in the field of medicine, it is mainly imitations, where the production process has been changed so that patents can be obtained and fantasy prices can be charged, thus draining the health insurance funds. i also often wonder why we have been discussing so-called key technologies for years and why these so-called key technologies have not really made their mark on the market. where's the market? biotech companies are the absolute flops on the stock market. we don't have products that are going to be accepted by the market. we've been talking about this so-called genetic engineering for years. i come now to the point. we are absolutely unacceptable in our view to lift the de facto moratorium, because very few member states have implemented the directive on the release of animals. i don't think what's happening here is acceptable either. we have the scheele report, we had a debate on the de facto moratorium. we also discussed the fiori report at great length, in which it was made quite clear that we do not want patents on human genes. the present report calls for the exact opposite. it is obvious that they do not want to accept that what has been demanded in other committees for some time is being implemented. i think that is a farce and, in fact, unacceptable. i think we need to acknowledge that we need very clear consumer transparency and food safety. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to make it quite clear once again that we do not agree with many of the points made here. i think it is very good, however, and i would like to see our amendments nos 26 and 27 adopted, which make it clear that coexistence in agriculture is very important and that both traditional and organic farming should be guaranteed to coexist. the commission is asking for it.
- this debate is over. the next item is the minutes. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (the sitting was closed at 12.10 p.m.)
- madam president, i would like to draw the house's attention to the following scandalous development: the zimbabwean regime has appointed two people, who are also zanu (pf) mps but also members of the government, as delegates to the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, which will begin in brussels on saturday. they are listed on the blacklist published by the european union. the two ministers are paul mangwana, deputy minister for justice, legal and parliamentary affairs, and christopher kuruneri, deputy minister for finance and economic development. this is a deliberate provocation by the european parliament, which we must not accept. unfortunately, belgium has granted a residence visa and germany a transit visa. the two persons are already in belgium. if our own governments do not follow their decisions to ban certain people from travelling, then we as the european parliament must ensure that these two gentlemen do not enter the premises of the european parliament from saturday onwards, and we must also ensure that this is made public and that the public also learns about it, so that such incidents do not happen again in the future. we are being insulted by the government down there, most recently in maputo at the foreign ministers' meeting, where we were insulted by the zimbabwean foreign minister through the bank. on the other hand, we are supposed to be following international conventions to allow such people to enter. we must ensure that our own resolutions are respected as the european parliament. the acp assembly in cape town last march also clearly called for sanctions against the regime. i hope that the conference of presidents today will ensure that these two gentlemen are not allowed into the european parliament from saturday. (applause from the centre)
adopted by the commission on 16 december. - mr president, the control of state aid is one of the three pillars of competition policy. many of these aid measures concern industry, the energy sector, transport or agriculture. the committee on industry has therefore delivered an opinion on the herzog report. in this opinion, which was adopted by a large majority, we first of all welcomed the aid notice, which provides more transparency and openness, more clarity and overview. secondly, we have unanimously adopted a number of requests in the committee on industry, which are addressed to the commission. firstly, the objective of continuously reducing aid is generally welcomed. secondly, the next aid indicator will include subsidies in the applicant countries. thirdly, we are calling for - and this is an old call - an increase in the de minimis thresholds. we want to see the smaller cases released in the future, so that there is more room for decision on the ground. we also want the special tax arrangements to be examined more closely and included in this aid indicator. finally, we want the commission to finally do what it has been saying for a long time, particularly on the subject of social security - other members have already said something about this. we know that a green paper on the benefits of social security is currently being prepared. we hope, mr commissioner, that this green paper, which is being drawn up under the responsibility of the president of the commission, will cover all aspects of social security. we do not mean that the provision of social services should not be subject to the rules of competition in general, as has just been said, but that where there is uncertainty, clarity can be created. the last point, from the point of view of the committee on industry, is an old demand of parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we want these regulations, including the expected provisions on social security, to be incorporated into the internal market legislation and to be dealt with under the codecision procedure. i know it's not in your best interest, but it's in our best interest. we hope, however, that you will be able to answer some of the questions.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. we have a whole host of current competition policy issues and decisions ahead of us. in view of the limited time available, i must confine myself to aid policy and therefore to the report by mr herzog, whom we in the socialist group expressly support. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is really quite different from what the vast majority of this house thinks. i think that the vote on the two reports will also show that we do not agree with what has just been said here. as i have already said, we support this report by mr herzog on aid, which supports the strict control of aid as carried out by the commission on the basis of the treaties. it is a balanced report, which points out that aid policy must also achieve other eu objectives, in particular competitiveness, growth and employment, in line with the lisbon strategy. i am therefore very pleased that you, commissioner, have explicitly mentioned and supported this in your opening remarks. it is good that state aid has again declined. this is the result of the commission's strong policy of aid control. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the aid is not used to the detriment of the environment. but it is not a question of rejecting them all at once. rather, the qualitative criteria for assessing aid are whether the objective pursued justifies - possibly for a limited period - market distortions or whether the measures are likely to eliminate existing market distortions in the medium term. in this context, commissioner, i would like to recall two points on which i raised questions and demands during the same debate a year ago. it is true that the most competitive region we want to be must be characterised by competitive enterprises. this means that companies can do without aid wherever possible and that any aid must be aimed at increasing the competitiveness of these companies. but we must not only look at the individual company, but we must also look at the entire value chain in which that company is involved. the emphasis on one company is not enough if qualitative criteria are to be applied. the second point concerns a request i make in the field of regional policy. we are already discussing how regional policy should be carried out after 2006. a lot will change for the current eu of 15, for the old member countries. that is true, but in this context we really have to think about how we can bring about a new orientation of regional aid by the member states. we have to discuss it, we have to do it in time. we can conclude that everything remains the same, but we can also conclude that we need new arrangements. let us not wait until the end to discuss this, but let us start now.
- mr president, european competition policy is one of the central policy instruments of the european union and i would therefore very much welcome it if the commission were to stand by the european parliament and include this area in the area of co-decision. i really think it is important that we democratize competition policy and give it even more legitimacy than it has so far, because the european union's decision on the internal market, the market economy and competition is based on the fact that competition, through its distribution function, should contribute to a fair distribution of income, increase social welfare and exercise a control function through an efficient allocation of the factors of production. the aim is to improve supply for the benefit of producers and consumers and, finally, to help ensure that its incentive function promotes technical progress and maximises the social product. we all think that market power and concentration are harmful. these maxims should also play a role in the constitutional debate, in the revision of the treaties, and i very much hope that this will become even more visible in the application and reform of competition law. finally, this approach must also be brought into line with the lisbon process and its objectives. the annual report is therefore certainly a success story and it is also positive that the annual report addresses the issues of social protection for the first time. i expect the green paper - unlike mr langen - not only to analyse in depth the way public services are managed, but also to decide on the starting point for future regulations. i welcome the idea of placing the guarantee of public services on the same level as the principle of free competition. i hope that the commission will come forward as soon as possible with a proposal for a framework regulation or framework directive which takes account of the specificities and traditions of each member state and which leaves the definition of public services to the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. i would like to stress once again that the recent court decisions must certainly be analysed in detail and conclusions drawn. but these court judgments do not diminish the confidence of the european parliament in the competence of the commission, as it has shown for decades. i would ask you, commissioner, to make the merger controls even more stringent than they have been so far, to ensure that workers' rights are respected. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, we had a debate yesterday on mrs van den burg's report on temporary work. this debate lasted from 10 p.m. to 11.30 p.m. and was attended by 28 speakers. when i asked this morning if there was a video recording of this, it was denied on the grounds that the reports would only be recorded until 8 p.m. mr president, we say we want to have a fair debate, but it is always those who are at a disadvantage whose report is dealt with after 8 p.m. who are at a disadvantage. transparency is not guaranteed. we are there, the interpreters are there, but the video service cannot be there because it has been rigorously restricted. i think that is an intolerable situation! (applause from the centre and the right)
- mr president, the prestige tanker disaster is a terrible thing. that is where our solidarity is needed. it must not be abstract, but - and i want our portuguese and spanish colleagues to know this - it must be concrete. that is why the region and its people need rapid european help. i think that's beyond any critical discussion. but this misfortune can happen again every day, commissioner, because it's the same game for years. the combination of an old scrap tanker and a cheap flag - this time from the bahamas - is usually the cause. cheap flag is synonymous with poor quality, poor ship, poor technology, poor crew. the result is usually organized irresponsibility, so that no one knows who is to blame for what. that is the reason for paragraph 3 of our resolution, madam commissioner. once all the information is on the table, we expect you to report who, when, how and why was responsible for this accident. i think that a word must also be said to the spanish authorities in this context. i am surprised to hear some statements these days from ministers of transport who have now made demands. it is obvious that these transport ministers have forgotten that the regulation on compensation for oil pollution liability, for example, which has passed the commission and parliament, has been on the table for over a year in the council, which has not yet acted. commissioner, you have the full support of parliament to put these gentlemen in the council under fire so that we can finally get a regulation soon. we must hold the oil companies, the shipowners, the cargo owners and the classification societies responsible for such accidents. the 'cheap flag' system cannot continue, madam commissioner. i appeal to you to consider a proposal here. we need european shipping, we need good european ships with good european crews. the cheap flags are a cancer in this system. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. parliament will deal with it quickly. (applause from the centre)
the commission - (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i want to reply to mr miller, because i think the information he has is wrong. i have here at your disposal, supplied by the bahamian maritime authority, the exact movements of the prestige vessel in the years 1999, 2000, 2001 and 2002. in 1999, it calls at the port of rotterdam and is, for the last time, subject to a thorough inspection in accordance with the paris memorandum in a european port, until it calls again, before the summer, at the port of kalamata, in greece, port and authorities to whom i have turned to ask how the prestige was in greece and was not subject to an inspection in accordance with the paris memorandum. then it comes to the port of gibraltar and again i have approached the british authorities to ask them why they did not carry out the check. it is true, ladies and gentlemen, that i have not asked you only about the prestige. i have asked the greek and british authorities about the implementation of the current legislation, the directive requiring port authorities to carry out port controls, in accordance with commitments which correspond in practice to the paris memorandum. i have asked about the controls and the application in these ports - in kalamata and gibraltar - of the directive currently in force. i have to tell you, your honor, i have facts. i can tell you that in gibraltar in 1999 five ships were checked. in the year 2000, six. in 2001, two. in 2002, there were 12. that's the data. that is why i say that the legislation must be revised to ensure that such checks by port authorities take place in all ports in the european union. because the controls of the port authorities have a deterrent effect, a deterrent effect from these 'substandard' ships, which must be applied in all ports. because if we leave holes in our network, in our system, we automatically weaken the whole set. that's what i'm proposing. it's not like i'm going against this or that port. in this case, these two came out, kalamata and gibraltar, and i asked for the information. but the problem is not just this or that port. the problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that there has been an ecological disaster, a catastrophe which we should have avoided, which we should have avoided if the commission's proposals had come into force. and i want the thanks and recognition extended to all the members of the directorate-general for transport who worked - we say in spanish, excuse the expression - like mules, that is, extraordinarily, without counting the hours, so that when the erika disaster occurred, in a short three months, they could present a coherent and comprehensive package to this parliament and the council of ministers so that these problems would not happen again. that's what i'm talking about. and i'm talking, ladies and gentlemen, about the fact that it's only been 23 months. and precisely because only 23 months have passed and because there was no ambition - we all know that - the disaster has happened again. how many more? well, that's what i say. could it not be that in the time remaining until june 2003 or february 2004 a disaster could occur in the baltic, the mediterranean, the atlantic or on any coast of the european union because the measures already adopted have not been put into effect? ladies and gentlemen, what we must demand - and that is what i have done in a letter i have sent to the ministers - is that they be implemented now. what happens is that governments are a "band of incoherents". the heads of state and government said in nice that these measures should be put into effect sooner and then they are not applied... (applause) i have opened infringement proceedings against some of them for failure to apply, not the new rules, but the rules in force, which are much more lax and much easier to comply with. our proposal was that single-hull, category 1 tankers, i.e. the largest, should have a maximum life of 23 years. because there is clearly a structural problem associated with the fatigue of metals due to sea-strikes, which occurs from the twenties. and what i regret is that our proposal was not accepted and that it was raised from 23 to 27 years. and that's where the current problems arise. ladies and gentlemen, help them. that's what we're working on. there will be the aid put in by the spanish authorities. what's there is clearly fipol funds. and i would point out that there is an expert from the directorate-general for transport in spain who is working with the spanish authorities, as he once worked with the french authorities, to facilitate the payment of all this aid and the claiming of all this compensation for the various victims. we are also looking at the fisheries issues to see what possibilities of support there may be in terms of fifg funds. we are looking at - but i think it will not be possible, i say it very clearly - the possibility of implementing the solidarity fund. the entry thresholds for the solidarity fund are so high that i hope we do not reach those figures with the damage, because then it would be a brutal tragedy. we are talking about over 3 billion euros, ladies and gentlemen. let's hope we don't get there. we are therefore also looking at the support that can be provided if, despite everything, the 3 000 million euro is not reached but it affects the regional level of galicia in a decisive way, a reason and a situation in which support could also be launched through this solidarity fund. i hope that portugal can be spared this tragedy. i hope the winds will allow the black tide not to touch those shores. i would like to see the spanish coastlines also left untouched, but let us hope that at least the portuguese coastlines will be left clean. in any event, if the portuguese coast was also affected, the funds would also be available, in the same form and manner, to be made available to the spanish authorities and to the spanish affected parties. ladies and gentlemen, we must put this decision into practice. there is a whole series of measures which form a coherent overall package, with a maritime safety agency which ensures, together with the commission, that the rules are properly applied. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i'm sorry, i'm not going to wait for you to agree or disagree. it is hopefully before the end of the year. question number two. within the aspects which are the responsibility of the individual countries - strengthening port control, strengthening the requirements of the classification societies - we will of course do a thorough investigation of what has happened - as i said before - in the whole chain, and i will present the result of our investigations here: the whole chain of events which leads us to the final result, also with regard to the classification societies. we shall also be calling on the member states to designate ports, refuge areas, to deal with situations such as that of erika in her day, which was also a point of controversy, or the question of the prestige in this case. severity in the application. in the application and enforcement of the rules. we talked about going further. i have made it very clear: the international maritime organisation, corridors for dangerous goods, safety distances, special controls at the crossings and straits, increased capacities for coastal states. all this within the framework of the international maritime organisation, giving maritime law a genuine adaptation to the requirements and new circumstances of the 21st century. in the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, we must also look more closely at the question of liability, we must put the cope funds, which are complementary to the fipol fund, back on the council of ministers' table, we must put the question of criminal liability back on the council of ministers' table and we must demand of the ministers that in all the member states - and i believe that this is possible in all of them with an administrative rule - double helmets be required for the transport of the most dangerous and polluting products, such as heavy oil. mr savary spoke of an autonomous european maritime safety area. the truth is that this is a question which could of course even be raised in the context of the discussions within the convention and the next intergovernmental conference. you can imagine that i'm not the one who disagrees with these views. in conclusion, i would like to say to mrs grossetête that, in fact, all i have, with all that has been happening these days, is deep anger, deep anger at the knowledge that we could have avoided it and we did not. (applause) i would like to thank
- madam commissioner, mrs miguélez ramos would like to ask you a supplementary question.
the commission - (es) mr president, i would like to say very briefly to the honourable member that he knows that i have a special feeling for galicia and that for me this tragedy involves names and surnames, faces and landscapes, and that is why it is undoubtedly felt even more. this does not mean that when the erika crashed - and it was off the french coast - i acted differently. i was in brittany and tomorrow i'll be in galicia. i shall be happy to be able to present all the facts on the question of the fipol fund, on the analyses we are making of the solidarity fund, on its possible application or not, on all the elements, and i shall even ask my colleague fischler for information on the fishing quotas, although i assume that he will give a full explanation in the committee on fisheries. (applause) i would like to thank
- thank you, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
- the agenda calls for debates on cases of violation of human rights, democracy and the rule of law (rule 50 of the ep's rules of procedure).
- doc. b5-0593/2002 by mr van den bos and mr sanders-ten holte, on behalf of the eldr group, on the human rights situation in sudan; - b5-0594/2002 by mr sjöstedt and others, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on sudan; - b5-0601/2002 by mrs maij-weggen and others, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the situation in sudan; - b5-0604/2002 by mr belder, on behalf of the edd group, on the situation in sudan; - b5-0605/2002 by mrs carlotti and others, on behalf of the pse group, on human rights in sudan;
- mr president, mr commissioner, this afternoon we must also discuss the war in sudan, one of the largest and most populous countries in africa, in the context of this urgency. civil war has raged for 19 years. over two million people lost their lives in that war. the people of southern sudan, who are fighting for cultural, political and economic autonomy, have suffered immeasurable hardships. in the majority of sudan, which is under government control, there is no freedom of expression, no freedom of religion, no freedom of peaceful assembly. human rights are still being trampled underfoot. government bombing raids are ravaging the southern regions with heavy losses for the population. more than 200 death sentences were handed down without due process by emergency courts in dafour state. the oil discoveries in sudan have not yet led to a return to peace. on the contrary, they are used to replenish the war chest of the government in khartoum. there is a glimpse of the peace negotiations in machakos, kenya, which led to a ceasefire agreement which has been drawn up but not yet implemented. firstly, the unhindered access of aid to the starving population in southern sudan must be ensured. it must also lead to a permanent ceasefire on both sides, which is respected by all. as long as this crisis is still ongoing and the peace process is not yet sufficiently advanced, there is no possibility of holding the 6th session of the acp-eu parliamentary assembly in sudan in spring 2003. we shall not go there as long as the situation there is as it is now, but we hope that we can do so at a later date. i would like to emphasize that the sudanese ambassador is doing a great deal here through diplomatic channels to speed up the peace process. we therefore call on the african states to organise the next acp-eu summit in another, more peaceful country in africa. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. we must look at the situation in sudan in a very different way. in the north we are dealing with a problematic regime, but one in which there are also reformist forces, supported by egypt. in the south, we have a brutal, bloody civil war, which would be simplified to the conflict between islam and christianity. there are also conflicts between muslims among themselves or even between christian tribes, although the main conflict is between christians and muslims. this shows that what is really going on is not a religious war, but tribal conflicts, ethnic conflicts, systematically - and this must be said - fomented by interested circles, including those in the oil companies. i am therefore very grateful that this resolution addresses it very clearly: the problematic role of certain commodity interests, which also exist in the caucasus and the congo, and the abuse of ethnic conflicts to increase brutally one's own profits. the european union is therefore not only called upon to intervene in a special way with the people of sudan, to work towards a peaceful solution and to put pressure on all parties to the conflict, but we are also obliged to deal seriously with our european oil companies operating there and to make them aware of their responsibility for this strategically important region of the world and for the people there. (applause from the centre)
the commission mr president, the promotion of a peaceful solution and respect for human rights and humanitarian law remain at the heart of relations between the commission and sudan. the current conflict and the persistent violations of human rights represent the main obstacle to the socioeconomic development of the country, as several interventions have appropriately highlighted. the commission is firmly convinced that respect for human rights would make it possible to bring peace to sudan. in line with the conclusions adopted by the council in june 2002, the union intends to proceed in a phased manner. until a peace agreement is concluded, the union will pursue the political dialogue on the basis of the commitments made by the government of sudan for 2002 on human rights, democracy and the rule of law, with particular attention to the signing of a peace agreement. if such an agreement is concluded, the union will begin to normalise its relations with sudan, in the context of the cotonou agreement, on the basis of respect for human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law; at the same time, the peace process and conflict resolution will be promoted. it is envisaged that a national strategy paper and a national indicative programme will be signed after the conclusion of the peace agreement or when the commission considers it politically appropriate, after consulting the member states. i can add, also in relation to specific points that have been raised, that the commission will be participating in the visit of the european union troika to sudan scheduled for december, during which the 2002 eu-sudan political dialogue will be evaluated. i would like to stress, however, that the implementation of the measures envisaged in the national strategy document is conditional on progress in the political dialogue.
- thank you, commissioner. the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
- doc. b5-0591/2002 by mr van hecke and mr van den bos, on behalf of the eldr group, on torture and murder by the military regime and the human rights situation in bangladesh; - b5-0596/2002 by mr vinci, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on bangladesh; - b5-0602/2002 by mr thomas mann and mr martens, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on human rights in bangladesh; - b5-0606/2002 by mrs carrilho and others, on behalf of the pse group, on the human rights situation in bangladesh; - b5-0609/2002 by mrs lambert and others, on behalf of the green group in the european parliament, on bangladesh.
- mr president, i have to go. the escalation of violence in bangladesh in recent weeks has reached a new dimension. in october alone, some 40,000 soldiers were mobilized in the military operation clean heart, under the pretext of combating rising crime and private gun ownership. several thousand people were arrested. we know from independent, reliable sources that this military operation by the islamist government in bangladesh was primarily aimed at its critics. among those arrested are members of parliament from the opposition parties, including former minister chowdhury. this includes the heads of unpopular ngos. they were abducted by the army units without any legal authority. most of the suspects are relatives or sympathizers of the hindus. but these have been living peacefully with the muslim majority for decades as a minority. the increasing, radical islamization of society and of political rulers is creating ever greater problems in everyday life. the prisoners are isolated from the outside world. many are being tortured. hundreds of injured had to be treated in hospitals. last month alone, there were 25 deaths. the army's claim that they all died of heart attacks is cynical. it is inhumane and in violation of the united nations charter of human rights. the position of the epp-ed group is clear: we call on the government of bangladesh to return to the rule of law, pluralism and parliamentary democracy. the imprisoned parliamentarians and other innocent people must be released. i agree with mr van den bos that we need an independent body to be set up to investigate arrests, ill-treatment and killings. only then will bangladesh be able to return to the necessary domestic political stability. the european union, commissioner monti, must also make its contribution. in our resolution we called on the commission, on a bipartisan basis, to send observers to bangladesh before there is further discrimination and persecution. the agreement between the european union and bangladesh is based on the consistent respect for human rights and democratic principles. if these rights are to continue to be violated, we must apply political pressure and then we must also succeed in suspending such cooperation. such important signals are known throughout asia and other countries as well. we in the saarc delegation can confirm this again and again. we hope that the responsible people in bangladesh will understand this, also because of the great pressure that can be exerted within saarc. only then can the serious interlocutors in bangladesh be taken seriously at the international level. (applause from the centre)
commission. – mr president, while politically motivated violence and confrontation, as well as the prevailing law and order situation, have been a major concern for the bangladeshi population for years, the european union and the international donor community in general are fully aware that the law and order situation has worsened during the last year. the eu has underlined its concern at the deterioration of law and order and the increase in violence against minorities in its 'human rights in the world' speech at the 58th session of the un commission on human rights. the european union is very concerned about the general human rights situation and the continued reports of torture and deaths in custody, following the launch of operation clean heart, aimed at halting the decline in law and order in bangladesh, to which several members referred to a few minutes ago. we are also very concerned about the possible bias in the implementation of this operation and about the delays in implementing or failure to implement reforms such as the separation of the judiciary from the executive, the ombudsman and the creation of an independent human rights commission. the eu consequently welcomes the european parliament's resolution on operation clean heart and the general human rights situation in bangladesh. however, there are a couple of points in the resolution which we believe no longer reflect the current situation or are not substantiated by evidence on the ground. if one compares the situation of politically-motivated violence against the hindu community before and after the national elections, we can see that reported violence and intimidation of minorities has significantly decreased. we should send a clear message calling on the government to ensure that the rights and security of all minority communities are fully respected. as regards operation clean heart, it must be noted that donor communities, as well as civil society, have frequently voiced their concern over the deteriorating law and order situation during this government's first year in office. the government launched the operation as a result of this pressure and the failure to deal with the situation by introducing new laws and tightening up on the existing ones. while we acknowledge the need to improve the law and order situation – and we are ready to support the government of bangladesh in its attempt to restore law and order – we firmly believe that this must be done under the rule of law and with full respect for human rights. under no circumstances can exceptions to these principles be allowed. that is why the european commission, through its delegation in dhaka, will continue to monitor the situation and the political developments very closely.
- thank you, commissioner. the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
- the joint debate on the following five motions for resolutions: - b5-0592/2002 by mr van den bos and mr malmström, on behalf of the eldr group, on iran; - b5-0595/2002 by mrs boudjenah and others, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on the case of hachem aghajari in iran; - b5-0603/2002 by mr gahler and others, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the case of hachem aghajari in iran; - b5-0607/2002 by mr izquierdo rojo and mr van den berg, on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists, on the death sentence handed down to hachem aghajari in iran; - b5-0608/2002 by mrs boumediene-thiery and others, on behalf of the green group in the european parliament, on iran.
- mr president, i have to go. we have been discussing the human rights situation in this parliament for less than a month, on 23 october. we have all condemned the death sentences and the stoning and, in general, the inhuman treatment of its citizens by the iranian system. we also regretted - at least my group - that the council had decided not to bring forward a human rights resolution on iran at the next meeting of the un commission on human rights. now, shortly after, someone is sentenced to death who has done nothing but demand: think about everything! do not let your opinions be taken for granted, and do not follow a priori a religious dogmatism! in this situation, the european union is continuing to negotiate cooperation agreements, economic cooperation. i do not think the wording of the resolution is sufficient. it is of course good that in future cooperation agreements reference is made to human rights. i think it is better - and i say this on behalf of my group - that there are no cooperation agreements and that they will not be concluded at all unless human rights are respected. it is schizophrenia. we also have very few opportunities to exert real pressure. the possibility of putting economic pressure on iran should not be taken for granted. of course it's positive that the students are going out into the streets. it is of course positive that president chatami has said that this judgment is unacceptable. of course, it is positive that the speaker of the iranian parliament is in the same boat. but that has not changed the structure of iranian society as it is today. i think it is also no coincidence that legitimate opposition in iran is being eliminated by the iranian religious leaders and by the iranian government, by trying to label them as terrorist organizations and put them on the appropriate lists, so that they get rid of this opposition once and for all. i also believe that we have a great responsibility. we need to pay more attention to who gets on these lists and what reasons someone gets on the lists. we must ask ourselves and as the european union we must not always be a subsidiary of the executive. we therefore call on the commission to make it clear and unequivocal in the next negotiations that there will be no economic cooperation with iran and no cooperation as long as this inhuman system continues to violate human rights as it does at present.
- mr president, the case of dr. aghajari has rightly attracted great attention and concern in iran and abroad. i share the view of the president, the iranian president majlis karubi, who has described the death penalty as a disgrace to the country's judiciary. however, i am not so convinced that the country's religious leader, ayatollah khamenei, has instructed the country's judiciary to review the verdict out of conviction. rather, chameney's past behavior suggests that he is trying to buy time. the student demonstrations are expected to slowly wane, as is the attention of the national and international public. however, the demonstrations have made it clear that the protesters are not just about dr. aghajari, but about the desire for more democracy in general. this judgment, like many others, is not really religious but politically motivated. we know this from europe, when the separation of church and state was not yet established. christianity too was used by the rulers to the point of obscurity to assert their own claims to power. but iranian society is a long way ahead of the conservative judiciary and clergy. this is reflected, among other things, in the recent reform proposals of the iranian parliament, which seeks to limit the absolute power of the guardian council. i call on the council and the commission to continue the human rights dialogue in all contacts and to be clear that there will be no trade and cooperation agreement without the european parliament. the opposition in the iranian parliament, both at home and abroad, also has high hopes that our contacts with this country are not motivated solely by economic interests. i think that we will also be making these statements and this basic attitude when we, as the european parliament, receive our colleagues from the iranian parliament on their return visit. we will always be clear that we are on the side of greater democracy and not on the side of those who want to turn the wheel of centuries back.
- mr president, i have to go. the present resolution is based on three points. first, for a man whose life is in danger and we must save him. secondly, a dr. aghajari, who many prominent muslims believe is defending true islam against the political abuse of this great world religion by extremist forces in power in iran. and thirdly, it is about the fate of iran itself. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in iran, and i would like to ask the commissioner to give us an assurance that the situation in iran will not be affected by the events in the middle east. these are forces which, unfortunately, are of a modern totalitarian extremism and which are misusing the great world religion of islam for their oppressive and criminal purposes. i would like to say a final word to mr markov in this connection: mr markov, i have already made such a criticism of the weakness of the west and of the repression of its regime when the sed regime was still in power in east berlin, and i must say quite clearly that you would have called such words as you have just said a cold war. i was of the opinion that democrats should not compromise with totalitarian forces. that was true then, it is true now, and it will be true in the future!
the commission mr president, we are very concerned about the new round of arrests and sentences against reformists and those exercising their fundamental right of expression in iran. after his speech last june on religious renewal in western iran, university professor hachem aghajari was arrested and sentenced this month to 74 lashes, to be followed by eight years in prison and the death penalty. professor aghajari, who lost his right leg during the iran-iraq war, needs medical treatment. an appeal to a higher court was expected, but professor aghajari had the courage to challenge the judicial system by refusing to appeal. tehran has been the scene of several days of violent student protests and, fortunately, president khatami has spoken out against the sentence, which was ordered to be reviewed on november 17 by supreme leader khamenei. in the past, we have repeatedly called on iran to impose the death penalty only on those responsible for the most serious crimes, in accordance with its obligations under the international covenant on civil and political rights. in its conclusions of 21 october, the council agreed to open a human rights dialogue with iran, reiterating its concern on this matter, including violations of civil and political rights, in particular freedom of expression. it also recalled its longstanding and stubborn opposition to the death penalty. on 18 and 19 november, president prodi and commissioner patten met in brussels with foreign minister kharrazi, who committed to participating in the future eu-iran human rights dialogue and, together with other leading iranian figures, contested the unjustified conviction of professor aghajari. the human rights dialogue is indeed suited to the examination of individual cases. the commission will follow developments with the greatest attention, keeping in touch with parliament and the member states. i would add that the commission believes that the opening of negotiations, which will also include a political dialogue, is in the interests of both iran and the european union - see the conclusions of 17 june - not to mention that the trade and cooperation agreement will contain a human rights clause. the negotiating process also allows pressure to be exerted while supporting president khatami and the reformists.
- thank you, commissioner. the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place immediately.
- we now move to the votes. for the results of the votes on the motions for resolutions on human rights, democracy and the rule of law: see minutes. report (a5-0369/2002) by mrs oomen-ruijten, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a council regulation extending the provisions of regulation (eec) no 1408/71 to nationals of third countries who are not already covered by those provisions solely on the grounds of their nationality (com (2002) 59 - c5-0084/2002 - 2002/0039 (cns)) (parliament adopted the proposal for a resolution)
- mr varela, i will see to it that all the language versions are compared again. (the president declared that there was no objection to the oral amendments being taken into consideration) before the vote on amendment no 1:
- mr president, i have to go. i would like to do something i have never done before, which is to commend the conference of presidents in plenary and thank them for making this afternoon a very good one with so many interesting debates. i regard this as an example for future plenary sessions!
- congratulations are always greeted with gratitude !
- mr balfe, i confirm that these two diplomats will not be allowed on the premises of the european parliament's committee on institutional affairs - authorization to draw up own-initiative reports - statements entered in the register (rule 51) - transmission of texts adopted during the sitting - agenda for the next sitting: see minutes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are able to vote in the european parliament.
- i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 5.55 p.m.)
court of auditors. (es) mr president, mr secretary-general, honourable members of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to present to you today the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2001. i have organized my speech around four main points: first, the analysis of budgetary management; second, the follow-up to the court's previous observations; third, the statement on the reliability of the accounts (sad); and fourth, the reform of the commission. let us begin with the analysis of the implementation of the budget. for the second year in a row, there was a large budget surplus of over eur 15 billion (16% of the final budget). the surplus is due to the cancellation of appropriations mainly due to the delay in implementing structural measures. the budget should have been amended to balance the revenue and expenditure forecasts. another determining feature of budgetary management has been the low use of payment appropriations in some areas. in the case of the structural funds, the rate of utilisation was below 70%, the lowest level since 1999. the implementation of pre-accession aid, especially the sapard programme, has also been slow, with only 9.2% of appropriations paid. in addition, the final beneficiaries of this programme have received only eur 1 million and, if implementation is not accelerated, appropriations will have to be cancelled in 2003. the commission should continue its efforts to clean up the accounts by cancelling those commitments which are no longer operational. outstanding commitments to be settled total more than eur 12 billion in external aid and almost eur 3 billion in new pre-accession instruments. the implementation of the european development funds is also slow. after four years of operation, only 30% of the 8th edf has been disbursed. in conclusion, the estimates of implementation and payment of the programmes should be more realistic and adjusted to the absorption capacity of each country. the result would be a more rigorous and balanced budget. the court has examined the follow-up to its previous observations. in general, the commission has taken appropriate measures to correct the shortcomings identified, for example by simplifying the customs outward processing arrangements, improving the system for promoting joint ventures in the fisheries sector and revising the tendering procedures for the tacis programme. other sectors have not developed so well, such as the durum wheat aid scheme, where the shortcomings identified by the court in 1998 remain and where eur 450 million is unnecessarily spent each year. this is also the case in the common organisation of the market in sugar, where, despite the 2001 reform, problems of overproduction and high prices persist. i hope that the setting up of the audit monitoring committee will enable the commission to pay greater attention to the follow-up of the court's reports. let us now look at the declaration of reliability. the court considers that the accounts for the 2001 financial year reflect accurately the revenue and expenditure and the financial situation of the communities. however, the report contains some reservations and observations, which are largely due to shortcomings in the accounting system, as already pointed out by the court. in its response to our report, the commission acknowledges the shortcomings and undertakes to present a plan to modernise the accounting system by the end of 2002. the court will monitor the design and implementation of this plan and will, of course, inform parliament of its progress. as in previous years, the court considers that the transactions relating to revenue, commitments and administrative expenditure are legal and regular. however, due to the errors detected, we cannot yet offer that guarantee for the other payments. the majority of errors are in payments relating to agricultural policy and structural operations, i.e. in the areas of shared management between the commission and the member states, which account for 80% of the budget. reducing the incidence of errors requires a significant improvement in the administration and control systems, both in the commission and in the member states. thus, in relation to the common agricultural policy, the declarations submitted by the beneficiaries of the subsidies have not improved compared to previous years. the implementation of the integrated administration and control system has not been completed and in almost half of the member states the system for identifying bovine animals, which has been compulsory since 2000, has not been introduced. other errors relate to deficiencies in member states' controls, for example in the case of olive oil and cotton. the court's recommendations obviously involve the full application of the control mechanisms provided for in the regulations. in the case of structural operations, irregular payments were again detected due to weaknesses in the control systems and declarations of expenditure of the member states. the court is concerned about the delay in the implementation of the management and control arrangements for the new programming period by the national administrations. inspection units are not functioning and there is no independent control of operations. it is recommended that the commission intensify its checks and systematically exploit the results obtained. in the area of internal policies, managed directly by the commission, the analysis of the fifth framework programme for research has revealed incorrect payments due to non-compliance with contracts by beneficiaries. the court recommended simplifying the systems for reimbursing expenditure and introducing more effective penalties. national authorities in beneficiary countries and non-governmental organisations play a key role in the management system of external aid programmes. the analysis of the supporting documentation, which is available at central level in brussels, shows that the commission has made the commitments and payments legally and regularly. however, the court is not sure that these operations have been properly implemented in the beneficiary countries. control systems are inadequate and frequent errors have been detected on the ground. the commission should deepen the transformation of external aid, which has already made positive progress. to conclude this point, i would like to open a small parenthesis. in recent months we have witnessed a heated debate on the commission's accounting system. this is good and i hope that the interest generated will serve to promote the reforms long advocated by the court. however, in some respects the debate has lacked rigor and serenity. it is time to put some order and establish an objective map of the situation. in this connection, it should be stressed that, despite certain reservations, the commission's accounts are reliable; thus, with the exception of perhaps a few specific aspects, the figures supplied by the budgetary accounts correspond to the actual implementation of the appropriations. this opinion is backed up by rigorous and professional audit work, in which the court invests considerable resources. but as a result of this work, the court has criticised the accounting system. the shortcomings identified make it difficult to obtain better quality information, which is necessary to improve management. i am referring, for example, to the shortcomings of the balance sheet in presenting the commission's assets and liabilities. the court has been insisting on these shortcomings for years, and it seems that its observations are finally getting some support. we are now demanding decisively that the commission take corrective action; next year, in this same forum and with the same determination, we will demand results and i hope they will be positive. in the meantime, let us please let the commission concentrate on the task, which is not a simple one. let us now turn to what i consider to be the crucial theme of the report: the reform of the commission. 2001 was a transitional year in which significant progress was made, especially in financial management and internal control. the court's main observations on this point are as follows: first of all, some measures are not being introduced within the time limits. this delay is mainly due to an initial timetable which was too ambitious, as the court has already pointed out. secondly, the council has adopted a new financial regulation which the court considers to be adequate overall. although there are still some unsatisfactory elements, it is a good instrument which will improve the administration of community funds. the directors-general have drawn up a report on their activities and made a statement on the quality of information and internal control. this accountability of the manager is one of the keys to the success of the reform. this is a real revolution in the commission's management culture. we recommend improving the methodology for drawing up reports and declarations: the date for submission should be brought forward; more precise guidelines should be established to avoid ambiguity, to specify possible observations and reservations and to define more rigorously the action plans. the commission has summarized the reports and statements of the directors-general in a document sent to parliament and the council. this document includes an action plan to correct the problems identified. the plan should address more in-depth issues such as monitoring of internal control rules or reform of sincom. finally, one aspect of the reform requires more attention. this is the management of programmes by the member states, known as 'shared management'. the commission is having difficulty integrating into its strategy concrete actions to verify and improve the functioning of these management systems, which cover more than 80% of the budget. the commission is unable to do this on its own and will therefore need the active cooperation of the national authorities. i believe this message serves as a conclusion to my presentation. the reform is progressing positively. the commission has fulfilled its commitment to work vigorously on improving its administrative and control practices. however, it will take some time to achieve the excellent and exemplary administration we all want. this is a laborious process to which all the institutions must contribute their expertise. the court shall each year review progress made, report on shortcomings and recommend any measures it deems necessary. i am very grateful for your attention. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission. mr president, mr president of the european court of auditors, members of the european parliament and the court of auditors! i would like to thank the president of the court of auditors very warmly for his speech and for his strong support for the reform of the commission. i would like to thank all the members of the court of auditors and the auditors for the good cooperation they have shown throughout the year and for the recommendations made by the court of auditors, which are essential for the proper use and administration of the european budget. i would also like to thank you for the methodological openness, particularly with regard to the declaration of assurance. i too can concentrate on three points, as the president of the court of auditors did, namely the 2001 surplus, the accounts and the reform of the commission. the annual surplus of 15 billion is criticized by the court because it does not come from savings, which would be a positive thing, but because the budgetary estimates adopted by parliament were not used up, because programmes, especially in the structural policy, simply started more slowly than planned. the surplus is the difference between the estimates and the actual figures as recorded in the cameralist accounting, which is the accounting of the parliament. why was the discrepancy so great in structural spending? the commission always relies on proposals and forecasts from the member states, and it is simply working on unrealistic assumptions. i reiterated yesterday in ecofin that there is still no systematic procedure in the member states to make a sound forecast of the actual amount of appropriations that can be called up in a financial year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the surplus of a financial year shall be credited to the member states as revenue for the following year in accordance with the financial regulation. we have done this mainly through two supplementary budgets, which have also played a role as instruments in the debate on the budgetary regulation. as regards the accounts, the court has again, as in previous years, found that the annual accounts for the financial year 2001 give a true and fair view of the community's revenue and expenditure and of its financial position at the end of the year. the court examines in detail the accounting system, including, of course, the cash management system. the commission has not yet taken any action to ensure that the budget is properly used. the court shall carry out detailed audits of the accounts and the presentation of the accounts. the court has again made restrictive remarks on the accounting of assets and he here calls for the system to be further developed. as you know, the new financial regulation will make it compulsory for all the institutions to have an integrated periodic statement of assets from 2005. this is also true of the european parliament. i would like to make a fundamental point, as the president of the court of auditors has done, to clarify the situation, because i have the impression that there is confusion here. traditionally, the accounting of the public sector is the cash accounting, i.e. the accounting of revenue and expenditure in relation to what has been established as budgetary estimates by the budgetary legislator. the system thus reflects the responsibility of the budgetary authority. in some member states, accounting is still based on this principle and it is wrong to say that this cash accounting is per se susceptible to fraud. but for an efficient administration, this information is not enough, and that is the concern of the court of auditors, which it has been stressing for years, and that is also the concern of the commission. the adoption of commercial standards in the public sector is strongly linked to the overall reform of the administration in the commission, but also in some member states in particular. these are the points which are so important for the budget and especially for the balance sheet. however, intermediate bodies must be able to obtain more information from the accounts. we are committed to further development, and the court urges us to do so, including improving the underlying computer system. we have a high-performance computerized accounting system. the medium-sized enterprises in all the directorates-general and in the representations are grouped together in a system which some member states can only dream of. here too, there have been various false claims that 4,000 officials could make direct transactions, almost arbitrarily. that's wrong too! they have the duty to put everything together in a system and the actual transactions are then carried out by the directorate-general for budgets. there have been various measures to improve this. the improvements in the area of security, i.e. access for system managers, which the court of auditors had warned about on several occasions, were also a concern this year. the committee on budgetary control of the parliament has the important task of examining the financial statement year by year, and if you need help with that, my services are of course always at your disposal. if you, mr elles, have decided that your group will use external aid, that is of course a matter for your group. as regards the hearings of a suspended official, the conference of presidents had dealt with them and the official was informed of them and of the proceedings in progress at your request, but that is all. in conclusion, i would like to thank mr fabra vallés again for the fact that the court of auditors, on the basis of a rigorous and professional audit, has confirmed the reliability of the commission's accounts. the commission is currently finalising a precise approach to further modernising the accounting system, which takes account of the court of auditors' suggestions and criticisms. i shall be able to present it to parliament in january. the third point concerns the area of reform. the commission has taken a number of measures which are far-reaching. in the budgetary field, as you know, activity-based budgeting is changing the way the budget is drawn up. the commission's annual policy strategy for strategic planning in the college is also a major change. the internal audit service and the central financial service were also established. the most important thing is the decentralization of responsibility for accountability, which is reflected in the report by the directors-general. it shall state whether the objectives set out in the annual plan have been achieved and whether a statement can be made to the financial management that all control measures have been put in place and are functioning. these are also new structures, such as this annual reporting, which we did for the first time in 2001, and the court of auditors rightly notes that the declarations of the directors-general are still too different to be used as a basis for a kind of single audit concept. the commission agrees with this statement and we will shortly adopt appropriate improvements to be passed on to the directorates-general. i would like to take up one suggestion made in the court's report, which will also be relevant to the work of the committee on budgetary control, namely that the annual reports of the directors-general should also specifically state which recommendations of the court have already been implemented and which steps have been taken to reduce any criticism. that is a very substantial and very good proposal. we'll take him in. this will make the work of the budget commissioner easier, and it will also make the work of the committee on budgetary control easier. i would also like to congratulate the court of auditors on its 25th anniversary and to thank it once again, on behalf of the commission, for the work it has done. i should also like to address a word to the main rapporteur, mr casaca. the work on the discharge procedure has already begun. they submitted a very extensive questionnaire. the commission will do its utmost to provide you with satisfactory answers within a reasonable time, i.e. by 18 december. the questionnaire also showed: it will be a very intensive cooperation, mr rapporteur, and i can say this for the committee, but at the same time, in my opinion, a very good one. (applause from the centre)
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the court of auditors, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, i would like to congratulate the court of auditors on its 25th anniversary and on the dignified celebration of its birthday last week. today's discussion of the court's 2001 annual report, which you, mr president, thankfully presented to the committee on budgetary control at the beginning of november, gives us the opportunity to address some of the key points, and they will be the same as those already mentioned. the budget surplus was enormous, amounting to more than eur 15 billion, i.e. 16% of the budget was not spent, and this after the end of the 2000 financial year with a share of unused funds of just over 14%. we are very much in favour of austerity, but not at the expense of the objectives we have set, unless their implementation has been overestimated from the outset! in chapter i the court reiterates its call to the commission from the previous year for a timely presentation of a supplementary and amending budget. the commission's answer to this question may be technically correct, but it is not politically correct. there's a lot of work to be done here. the court's statements in chapter 9 of the declaration of assurance are of great interest but also of great concern. the will is not given again, except in a few areas. the question is whether the top of this scale will ever be reached. the commission's reforms, financial management and the new budgetary system will be particularly important for the discharge. the reliability of the commission's accounts is a subject of much discussion and media coverage. the committee on budgetary control was prevented from hearing the arguments of the commission's accounting officer, who has since been suspended. the court's report, for example, on pages 308 et seq., paints a rather disastrous picture of the shortcomings in the commission's accounting and bookkeeping for years. a compilation of these criticisms by the court in its reports since 1994 shows the serious negligence of the commission in remedying these serious deficiencies. the commission is currently planning to phase them out by 2005. the court of auditors and parliament have a long way to go in this area of audit. in conclusion, two questions. firstly, has there been any improvement in the way the budget was implemented in 2001? the answer is the discharge decision. secondly, the treaty gives the commission responsibility for the overall management of the budget. the new financial regulation creates decentralised responsibility for their directorates-general. but who in the commission is responsible for the control as a whole within the commission? the individual directors-general, the directorate-general for budgets or the accounting officer? in any case, you, mrs schreyer, as the commissioner responsible for the budget, are and will of course remain our main point of contact. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am grateful to mr fabra vallés, in particular, for his insight in the last few weeks on the question of the public presentation of the report to the committee, because i think it was necessary for us to deal with this behind open doors, at a time when such a report is already circulating in brussels among interested circles. thank you very much for that. i would like to say a few words on the points which have already been raised in several comments, such as the question of the accounting system. we as social democrats believe that in the coming months we will make the court of auditors' remarks the basis of our work, and i have full confidence in our rapporteur, mr paulo casaca. it shall not relieve the commission of its obligation to provide information. i would like to know what is clearly stated in the minutes: the committee on budgetary control has given a conditional invitation to the accounting officer, who has been mentioned several times here. however, it should provide additional evidence to what the court of auditors had already denounced in its observations. we were then able to learn from a newspaper article, from a publication published here in brussels, that she was not willing to do so. this is part of the story and should not be missed. the other point is - mr fabra vallés spoke very diplomatically, i wrote it down - undisciplined and not factual. i'll put it in my own words: we social democrats - and other groups too - have refused to allow this parliament and its procedures to degenerate into a personal circus. and it will remain so. (applause from the centre) what we do not see, however, is the commission's enthusiastic outcry about the state of the accounting system. the court of auditors' comments are certainly cause for concern and we will not give credit points on this matter. we shall look into this question and the commission will have to answer why virtually nothing has been done at certain times to take account of the court of auditors' observations. we will not allow it to be said that we could not do this because we had to work on the new financial order! the two things have nothing to do with each other, and we expect clear and unambiguous information at once, from which it is possible to understand why certain things did not happen. if these explanations are not satisfactory, it will be uncomfortable for all involved! i promise you it's going to be uncomfortable! (applause from the centre)
the commission mr president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, in 1993 the european council in copenhagen launched the current enlargement process, which is the largest in the union's history. after almost ten years, we're about to arrive at the port. at the end of next week the heads of state and government will meet again in the danish capital to take the final decisions. what will be discussed in copenhagen? basically, three arguments: first, to conclude the negotiations with the 10 applicant countries mentioned in the commission's report last october; secondly, to strengthen the pre-accession strategy through which we intend to help romania and bulgaria to accelerate their preparations for accession to the union; thirdly, to decide on the next steps in the application process for turkey. i will illustrate these three points in my speech today. before that, however, let me mention the decisions we must make to manage the three big transitions of 2004: the accession of the new member states, the appointment of the new commission and the elections to the european parliament. we can build the busy calendar of political and institutional appointments for 2004 on the basis of the reflections currently taking place in parliament on how to harmonise the different deadlines for the arrival of new member states and the european elections. to this end, i believe that the indications coming from the council can, if necessary, be subject to verification and supplementation in order to accommodate parliament's specific interests as best as possible. i suggest that we should give the most practical sequence of events and, in the absence of any indication from the treaty, follow common sense. it is a very important political signal that the european elections are the focal point of the institutional action for enlargement. the new parliament will immediately be hosting the elected members of the new member states in their full capacity, and in this way it will be able to approve with full legitimacy the new college which will take office as soon as possible. how does the copenhagen summit look in terms of its main theme, enlargement? the brussels european council reached agreement within the union on the major supply balances to be submitted to the ten applicant countries, especially on agricultural and budgetary matters. the european council conclusions were immediately presented to the heads of state or government of the candidate countries and were generally welcomed. however, there are still many issues to be resolved before an agreement can be reached that is acceptable to all parties. the presidency of the council and the commission have worked and will work tirelessly to achieve this agreement. without going into the details of the discussions under way, i would like to mention a few of the main points: firstly, we must find a way to respect a principle we all share, namely that the candidate countries cannot be in a position to receive net inflows from the european union in 2004, 2005, 2006 that are less than those in the year 2003. secondly, the candidate countries must be helped to prepare themselves better to take over the control of the union's external borders, which means enabling them to carry out their schengen tasks fully. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. firstly, on all these issues the commission fully supports the danish presidency and the efforts it has made and is making to reach the necessary compromise. some member states have expressed reservations about the content of the offer to the candidate countries, reservations which we do not share, and i share the view of mr rasmussen, president of the council, that a reasonable offer should be made. this will enable the representatives of the applicant countries to defend the results achieved in copenhagen before their public. we must remain within the general framework defined by the brussels european council, but we must also be open, flexible and generous. secondly, last week i publicly called on the political leaders of the applicant countries to show realism in this final phase of the negotiations. i should like to point out that there are still many open questions, and we have only a few days left. we can't take a risky situation without taking a step forward. there are historical circumstances in which small sectoral interests, even if legitimate, must bow before the general interest: that is the law of democracy, and we must apply it. i would like to emphasize once again that most of the points of the final compromise must be decided at the next general affairs council on 9 and 10 december. we cannot allow the european council to be faced with the need to decide on dozens and dozens of particular points. i therefore appeal to the political leaders of the candidate countries and the 15 member states to show their wisdom. the latest difficulties must be resolved swiftly in the spirit of partnership and friendship, as has already been the case in all accession negotiations. as regards the conclusion of the negotiations with cyprus, i should like to comment on the latest developments. as is well known, the european union has always supported the efforts of the un secretary-general, and in recent weeks kofi annan has taken the courageous initiative of proposing a comprehensive resolution plan, which deserves our full support. the parties' response was generally positive. they have accepted the proposals as an acceptable basis for the solution and will make their proposals known in the coming days. we hope that these contributions will enable kofi annan to take another step towards solving the problem. we have already solemnly stated our willingness to take account of the terms of this solution in the arrangements for cyprus's accession and we will do so if such an agreement is reached. in any case, the commitments we made in helsinki remain valid for the candidacy of cyprus. as regards bulgaria and romania, the copenhagen european council will have to adopt the commission's proposals on the detailed roadmap. it includes a precise timetable and enhanced pre-accession assistance to move the accession process forward. as you know, the countries themselves proposed 2007 as the date of accession and the commission believes that everything possible must be done to make this a reality. finally, a few remarks on turkey. your parliament has already had a long debate on this. i would like to reiterate our position, particularly in the light of the recent contacts between the leader of the akp, recep erdogan, and myself and commissioner verheugen. on the basis of the helsinki conclusions, the commission considers turkey to be a candidate like the others, subject to the same identical evaluation criteria. the report which the commission presented last october on turkey is based on objective evidence and has not been challenged by anyone. it stressed the progress made towards the copenhagen criteria and also noted the difficulties still remaining. in short, much has been done, but much remains to be done. the new turkish government's own legislative programme has confirmed this. it is intended to present to the turkish parliament 'many packages of legislative measures' and even constitutional amendments to consolidate democracy and human rights in the country. the european union must encourage this process, because it is in our interest that a great partner like turkey, whose role is of enormous strategic, political and economic importance, intends to strengthen its institutions and improve the quality of democracy and is clearly committed to the values and principles that we all share. on the other hand, before making an irreversible commitment, we must ensure that this country fully respects all the conditions, just as we have done with the other candidate countries. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the process of moving closer to union membership has given millions of europeans a new political and economic perspective. above all, it has given them hope, and hope is the rarest and most precious asset in politics. recent history has not been kind to these populations. well, now they have the hope of a better future, one of dignity, freedom and prosperity. i am sure that this hope will be the engine of the union for many years to come, and i am equally certain that, together with the governments and peoples of the next member states, we will go a long way. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the development is changing at the moment at least daily, if not hourly, and i can therefore only present you with the picture that is available at the moment. this leads to some conclusions with regard to copenhagen. first, we have not yet reached the goal. the differences in opinion between the member states and the candidate countries are still considerable and it will take a lot of political courage, foresight and leadership to actually get something done in copenhagen. i would like to see the commission and the council agreeing to the need for a new approach to the problem of the environment. who are you talking to? but we must also pay for major historical projects, we must have everything in order, and we must get through this difficult situation we are in at the moment. but i am confident that the heads of state and government will indeed weigh up the risks involved if we do not reach a conclusion now and the concessions that may still be necessary in copenhagen. secondly, it is important that copenhagen is not overloaded. this appeal is addressed to the future member states, who are really called upon to do everything possible to resolve the many bilateral issues and leftovers from the negotiations by the beginning of next week, and i see very good chances that this will succeed. this appeal is also addressed to the member states. they must resist the temptation to link the great decision on enlargement with the representation of certain national interests. i am concerned to see that some initial attempts are being made to string up packages which are not appropriate. thirdly, we must achieve an outcome where there are no winners or losers. if you think in these categories of winners and losers, you will fail. we must achieve a result where there are only winners and where europe as a whole is the winner above all. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. although we are now organising the accession of ten countries, rather than six, as was envisaged in berlin in 1999, the danish proposal remains more than two billion euros below the ceiling envisaged in berlin. the candidate countries have an argument when they ask why it is suddenly no longer possible to provide the resources that were considered adequate for six countries in 1999, when we are now dealing with ten countries. that is an argument that is not easy to answer, and that is why i hope that something will still move. i really have to tell you, there is a problem that simply arises from our rules in the european union. the new member states must pay the full contribution from the start, but as you know, the funds flow slowly and they flow under certain rules. we have not only the difficulty of preventing new members from becoming net contributors, we also have the additional difficulty of not accepting the emergence of an imbalance in the budgets of the new member countries. that is the problem at the moment. in conclusion, let me say that the proposal under discussion already takes up many of the arguments and wishes of the candidate countries and contains many new ideas. the most important of these, in my view, is the creation of a so-called schengen facility, with which we will help the new members to secure our external borders. i think this is a good idea because it will also convince our citizens that the money here is being spent for a purpose that serves us all. president prodi referred to romania, bulgaria, cyprus and turkey. i do not need to repeat it, i just want to make a few points. in the present situation, when we are closer to solving the cyprus problem than at any time in the last decades, when there is really an opportunity to solve the problem at this moment - and the opportunity will pass if it does not happen before copenhagen - at this moment positive, encouraging signals are extremely important. the european institutions should therefore make a clear statement before copenhagen that the international community should assume its share of responsibility for the major tasks which will have to be tackled after the settlement of the cyprus problem. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the sooner the international community declares its readiness to provide this assistance, the more likely it may be to follow the united nations proposals. i think that we can be satisfied with the state of affairs we have reached. we need one last big effort. we need to make an effort, knowing that time is running out. we've often talked about the window of opportunity. i didn't know how true that was. everyone must know that if we do not do it now, every month of delay will make things more and more difficult. i am firmly convinced that in six months' time the budgetary situation in the member states will make a solution almost impossible. so all i can say is, it has to be now, and everyone has to throw their hearts over the barrier now! (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would first of all like to ask for your understanding if i leave the chamber immediately after my speech - which i have never done before - because, contrary to an agreement with me, turkish television has announced that i will be available for a half-hour discussion with mr watson from 5 p.m. i do not want to give the wrong political impression, so i go, although i do not usually follow such calls unless they are agreed. but to copenhagen, from copenhagen to copenhagen! i wish the summit of heads of state and government under the danish presidency every success so that we can tackle the issues that remain to be resolved. this summit in copenhagen must be an enlargement summit. we must not allow the end of the debate to be all about turkey. this is also important, but copenhagen must send the signal that the peoples of central europe plus malta and cyprus are joining the community of values of the european union. that's what we need to focus on. the historic process of the 1980s and 1990s must be concluded in copenhagen, and we wish you every success in that, mr president-in-office. i can fully agree with what has been said by the commission, both by mr prodi and by mr verheugen, and i would like to thank both of them and the president-in-office of the council for their work. i would also like to remind our group that we still have 2,391 billion euros, if the figure is correct - as mr verheugen has pointed out - which are still available even if the danish proposal is accepted. we should turn every euro around, and i am, as the president of the commission knows, very much in favour of stability, but we must not allow the situation to develop in copenhagen where, in the end, because we have not reached agreement on the financial question, the whole enlargement project is postponed. that is why we are calling on the governments to come to a conclusion in copenhagen. ladies and gentlemen, i think it would be tragic if an agreement were not reached with a country, poland, which was a key country for change in europe - and i do not want to reiterate the historical context, i have done it often enough - with the country to which we owe, among others, the great change in europe. that is why i call on the heads of state and government to take a step now and bring about a result. the european court of justice is 50 years old today. in any case, it met for the first time 50 years ago today, on december 4, 1952. we have a right to something. we have criteria for admission, and criteria are something like the law. we cannot now, for reasons which are all important but which have nothing to do with the criteria as such, give turkey a date for negotiations when the criteria are not met at all! we are firmly opposed to giving a date for the negotiations in copenhagen now! i am also aware, ladies and gentlemen - and i never conceal this and never have - that there are quite different positions in our group on whether turkey should become a member or not. there is a position which is very committed to turkey becoming a member, and another which is in favour of a strategic or privileged partnership. this is normal in a large group, and it is certainly not much different in another group. but we are absolutely, 100 per cent, agreed that it would be a breach of our own demands - and this is not just about turkey - but it would be against our own demands if we were to throw overboard what we have defined as the conditions for the opening of negotiations. what will one think of the european union if it presses on cyprus, if it says that if there is no date now, there is no solution in the cyprus question. we're being blackmailed! i therefore recommend that we base ourselves on the solid basis of european law and on the solid basis of criteria. the commission has shown the right way, we are not going to start negotiations now because the criteria are not met, and our group follows the commission on this matter without any reservations. i expect the presidency of the council, mr president-in-office, to take the same approach, based on the criteria and the agreement reached so far in the community of fifteen. we would not be so positive about the results of the danish presidency as we are now if you took a different view. we cannot accept the united states of america trying to influence us - of course they have the right to influence us, but we will not bow to this pressure and influence! now i also know that there are countries in the european union that have a catch-up, particularly a large country in the european union that has a catch-up in solidarity with america, and that's why that country is susceptible to pressure. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do it in the future. now we are also hearing from turkey that the cyprus problem will not be resolved unless a date is set. we had clear principles - and the president-in-office of the council has pointed out that if the cyprus problem is not resolved within the framework of a federation of the two parts, then what we have decided so far in the european union will apply, namely that the whole island will become a member, but in reality with its greek part. a further comment to the commission on the appointment after 1 may 2004. we recommend that the council and the commission do not take any preliminary decision or decision without parliament's consent. we are prepared to accept any flexibility that is appropriate, but we will always defend the rights of the european parliament, you can count on that. on this basis, we look forward to working with all the institutions of the european union! (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to join my predecessors in saying that i too feel that the spirit of european integration has been 'forbidden' in the last days of the negotiations, because the negotiations are about milk quotas and direct aids, and it has no place there! the european union's solidarity ends with money. the danish presidency has tried to accommodate all the positions in its negotiating package, but the spirit of integration has been thrown out the window and only a patchwork of ideas has emerged. it has no quality and is not a concept for a future together. why would you do that? the fact that the member states are so delicate gives the eu's applicant countries the impression that they are not welcome, that they are second-class citizens. this gives the anti-eu forces there a boost, and the acceptance of the eu is in danger. the savings in the structural funds mean savings in cohesion, the very heart of the european union, and thus have a negative impact on the integration project. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis. this is an attempt to demonstrate the structures of a failed agricultural policy in the european union, which is practically an indirect rejection of agricultural reform and means that the death of farms in the applicant countries is pre-programmed, without any alternative jobs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, and i hope that the council will be able to accept them. otherwise there will be a social collapse, the spirit of the european union is in danger and the reform project of the european union too!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the european council in copenhagen will decide in a few days' time on the enlargement of the european union to include eight countries of the former eastern bloc, plus cyprus and malta. it is negotiated, sometimes disputed - necessarily - and perhaps even exchanged here and there, but nothing can conceal the fact that europe, which was divided until 1989, is now, with this step, establishing a new community order based on the principles of democracy, the rule of law, freedom and the market economy. i am convinced that for all our generations this is the most important political event we will be participating in in our lifetime. if 15 years ago a man of foresight had drawn up the agenda for this european council as it stands now, with the reunification of europe, he would have been considered a phantasm! if we had been asked at that time whether we would have been prepared to pay an extra 2.3 billion euros for this, i am sure that we would all have said yes loud and clear and immediately. we will have to make efforts to cope with this enlargement - politically and financially, no doubt - but it is the moment when this union will be joined by european countries which are part of us, like france and the united kingdom, and which will stand with us for the principles of freedom and democracy based on the rule of law. the european union is founded on the rule of law and nothing else holds it together except the recognition of the rule of law. it is therefore significant that in a resolution on the report on the negotiations with the czech republic, the european parliament has expressly declared the so-called exemption act to be incompatible with our legal understanding, in a careful and very balanced manner. this question does not concern the german-czech relationship of the past, but the european present and future, because it is a question of fundamental legal principles and their application, and if the czech republic could decide to speak a clarifying word until enlargement, that would certainly be helpful. i have in my mind the often-stated idea that the discussion of turkey should not, in a sense, be the summit on enlargement, but i see that we ourselves are not able to resist this temptation, and so it may be in copenhagen, and it will make it clear that this issue moves people. commissioner verheugen was quoted in a german newspaper a few days ago as saying that he was against turkey's accession and that he proposed establishing a special neighbourhood relationship with the turks, a treaty which could also apply to other neighbours of the eu. i am sure you will explain this, mr verheugen, as a misunderstanding or a misinterpretation and rightly point out that the confidentiality presumably agreed to has been broken. but the point is not that you shouldn't keep something to yourself that you wanted to keep confidential, but that this kind of behavior gives the impression that many people in this issue are saying the opposite of what they really think in public. in the case of turkey, you would not be alone, because a group of public advocates do not really want accession and hide behind the criteria. this is a hypocritical act which is more damaging to eu-turkey relations than an honest assessment, which in its honesty would be absolutely necessary because of the respect for this country, and therefore: we do not need accession dates, but more honesty in relation to turkey! (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. my problem with mr corbett is that he knows too much about the law and that's why he always confuses me. but because he knows so much, he has so many complicated thought processes that the actual message is lost. the political message is that we welcome the candidate countries and do not want to get involved in bureaucratic trifles! i think that's the message. that is why we have other proposals from the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, which is in charge of enlargement, which should be pragmatic and simple. whatever we do, whether we prefer the elections to the election, or even prefer the appointment of the new commission, there is always a transitional period during which the new candidates have the right to nominate commissioners in cooperation with the present commission. whether it's four weeks or four months, the principle is always the same, and that's not solvable. i would therefore simply say: let the commissioners without portfolios come on 1 may as decided. they are examined for their competence, financial independence, etc., in a procedure which does not take place in the committees because they do not yet have a portfolio. the observers, who have been working with us for a good year, will be members of the european parliament for four or eight weeks, as we have always done! we have had this for a year or a year and a half at times when we joined. what's the problem? i think we should keep it simple to move forward in this way. the new commission is to be in office on 1 november, and parliament's rights must be respected. because that's what matters. the president of the commission is appointed after the european elections so that the european elections have an impact on it and we have the time to carry out the appropriate procedures, i.e. to examine candidates from the old and new member states in the committees to see if they are suitable for the position. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. let me make one more remark. i would also like to thank the danish presidency in particular for having been able to concentrate its work on enlargement and, in successful cooperation with the commission, to bring about an obviously successful outcome to these enlargement negotiations. the necessary compromises will be made with good will and, of course, with a clean hand - mr verheugen, you are quite right - and i am sure that they will be achieved. the debate on turkey and the setting of a date has already shown today in this sitting something which will continue in copenhagen and then in the media: no one is happy that we are welcoming ten new countries, no one is going to speak publicly about the accession of poland, estonia and the czech republic, but instead there will be a turkish summit and we will have a discussion on turkey! i think it is extremely regrettable that we have maneuvered ourselves into this situation and that a scenario has been created in connection with the esdp/nato, american pressure, iraq and the cyprus question, which is blackmailing us. i don't think it's good that it's happening like this! if the european council, for reasons of political logic, sometimes called opportunism elsewhere, decides to set a date, i fear that the citizens of our member states will say: 'ah, they mean it! ten new countries, that is difficult enough, and here comes a dash: turkey - next! we will then have a discussion which will put us in a difficult position in terms of promoting the polish and slovenian accession positively in our public, and i hope that the council is aware of this responsibility and is not thinking too short-term!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are dealing with an infinite story here. since 1998, this house has been dealing with the statute for members of the european parliament. i think it's high time we came to an end. we are practically reaching the end of a legislative period and we are also facing enlargement. i think it is necessary that the legal situation of the members of this house be settled at last. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the rothley report, which was adopted in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament as an opinion for our president and the conference of presidents, is the only document in this house which contains a comprehensive proposal for a statute for members. we have been waiting for a response from the council since april of this year, and that is why we feel that we must now make this oral request. it's about time! this proposal by mr rothley is a very balanced proposal. we have been guided by what the wise men who have been called to office have told us to make concrete proposals. we have come to the conclusion that we should receive half the basic salary of a european judge. i think everything in this concept is very balanced. i am all the more sorry that on this important question, on which consensus in this house should be the key, three group chairmen gave a press conference this morning which i believe was absolutely intolerable. there is a clear contradiction between what was falsely stated there this morning and what is actually in the resolution. i would point out, however, that there is only one essential difference in the motions for resolutions on which we are voting here, namely the reference in paragraph 2 of our motion for a resolution to the decision of the legal affairs committee of april, because we want the council to express a specific opinion on this document. everything else is practically identical in content. i therefore find it completely incomprehensible that this morning there were claims that the major groups would turn against the statute and, so to speak, try to line their pockets. this is definitely not the case, and it is an indecent statement to make it in this house or at press conferences! i should like to make that very clear at this point. we have no room for cheap populism here. the major groups have a responsibility for this whole house and we are trying to live up to that. we have put this oral question back on the agenda with this resolution, at our instigation, so that we can move forward with the debate on the statute, and not hinder it. ladies and gentlemen, we can no longer - we have been negotiating for almost five years now - have parliament being dragged around by the council like a bear in a circus ring. it must be clear what the council wants. if we know what the council wants, we will also be able to reach a reasonable statute in the subsequent discussions in the legal affairs committee in the actual legislative procedure under article 190 (5). i hope that mr haarder, who is a former colleague of ours, who has sat in this house and knows the problems, who has also worked on the draft statutes at that time, will now be able to send a clear, positive signal to parliament for the danish presidency. what i do not think is acceptable is that the things we have already seen with the swedish and belgian presidencies are repeated. i remember this: the contact group met at that time and we were told that if we reached a compromise on the taxation issue, then the problems would be solved and the statute could then come into force as proposed. what have we been through? we have reached a compromise which i consider to be unlawful and which the european court of justice will never accept. but we have taken it on, in the interests of a common statute, and what has been the result? the council has again raised other problems and issues and we have not made any progress at all! i would therefore like to see not only a well-intentioned letter from our president on our tables this time, but a concrete statement from the council. that is the purpose of this oral question and the accompanying resolution. the question of transparency of costs is raised again and again. but it is not the subject of this resolution. it is quite clear that we want transparency and it is also quite clear that our bureau will of course put forward new proposals on reimbursement when the statute comes out. i am assuming that, and this is the subject of all the motions for resolutions on the table. (applause from the centre)
mr president, thank you very much for your work. we've made some progress. i would also like to thank you for the letter you sent to the members of this house, which clarified a number of points. i have also not forgotten how you supported me in 1998 at the conference of presidents when it was a question of whether the legal affairs committee should draw up a draft statute. you were the liberal group chairman at the time. it's been a long time! the resolution is intended to provide an impetus for a thorough discussion with the council on the remaining questions. we are talking about strengthening democracy and not just about salaries, we are talking about the dignity of parliament, whose members represent 380 million citizens in the european union, and not just about reimbursement and allowances. of course, these questions need to be clarified. the system of reimbursement of costs - i am convinced of this - will be solved by the bureau, which alone is responsible for it, in a way - i am convinced of this - that is understandable and transparent to the general public. the only way to get the money is to show your deep contempt for this parliament. this isn't a gang of rip-offs who need to be put to work, not this! in 1976, when the act was adopted to introduce direct elections, the european council failed to define the constitutional rights of members. the council cannot expect us, more than two decades after the first direct elections, to refrain from defining these constitutional rights of members of parliament! the rules on immunity date back to 1965 and were tailored to the delegates sent to the parliamentary assembly by the national parliaments at the time. the council cannot expect us to remain unchanged in 2003 on these 1965 provisions! i'm familiar with the legal issues. they can be resolved with some goodwill on both sides. there's a time for everything. omnia tempus has been. i have a feeling the time for a decision is coming. it was the european council that asked us in 1999 - and we have quoted it - to conclude the question of the members' statute as a matter of urgency. we shall probably be dealing with this issue once and for all in the spring. we are authorized to submit a report to the plenary. i know that there are still problems with primary legislation, but they can be solved, and i would be very grateful if the council would concentrate on this issue and could give us concrete suggestions for a solution. in any event, this statute must be adopted before enlargement. after that, it'll be almost impossible! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was just saying that shrimps are more profitable than cod in terms of maximising profits. does that mean in future: cod - no thanks? how about newfoundland? and i have this joke: why do we need cod? we have fish fingers. seriously, we have been preparing for this reform for years now, and what does the european parliament finally deliver? many say: a lot of hot air for nothing, because the expected strong signal for a new fishery in europe is today no more than a breath of fresh air. i say that the house of lords has not brought about reform, but at best a little reform. well, yeah, at least. the short-term and short-sighted preservation of the status quo is the priority, not long-term conservation of fish stocks. harsh words, but i'm sticking to them. this is not the real reform that everyone supposedly wanted. this is not a glimpse of the light of exhausted resources, but a fatal "eye to eye" we have too many vessels chasing fewer and fewer fish, and some stocks are in a catastrophic state. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. do you really think we politicians don't get it? i cannot in good conscience continue to support the building of new ships with public subsidies when we already have far too many. if the building of new fishing vessels were a profitable business and would promise profits for the future, do you not think that the banks would be lining up to co-finance it? there's no line because there's no expectation of winning. so, whether they like it or not, the european taxpayer is to step in? this is pure, naked, pure unreason. sad but true! there will be no prospect of future profits unless we rethink and make radical cuts.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this evening we are discussing three proposals for regulations in the framework of the reform package of the common fisheries policy, and i think that is the most important part of the reform package. we should therefore remind ourselves why reform is so urgently needed. one of the main reasons is that the stocks of many fish species are in a very critical state. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing fleet is not over-exploited. parliament should have the courage to make a clear statement if we are serious about protecting stocks. unfortunately, i do not find in the reports by mr varela suanzes-carpegna the thread that would justify the call for reform. i think that with just a few cosmetic adjustments we are not helping anyone in the long term, neither the fishermen nor the endangered stocks, which could really collapse in the foreseeable future. i am not entirely in favour of calling into question the voluntary scrapping measures proposed by the commission. the emphasis is on voluntary, everything else is just talk to me. i do not accept either of these reports, nor can i agree with them. the fact that all the measures proposed must also be socially and economically viable is one of our main demands, and i think we can all agree on that. we are discussing the reform proposals today, and if we are discussing the demise of 'prestige', i would ask you to keep things carefully separate. we are in solidarity with the galician fishermen in this problem, but we must not lose sight of the reform.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european parliament has worked very hard on this commission proposal, very hard and very unanimously. we were quick to agree, across the committee and group boundaries, on a good report like mine, under the chairmanship of mr karas. but it is precisely because we have worked quickly and in concert that we are able to formulate clear requirements for the profile of the political coordination that must be carried out here. firstly, there is no moment, no second, no minute for anyone, no legitimation of any kind, to subordinate the social objectives of lisbon, the employment ambitions of the lisbon agenda to a one-dimensional interpretation of the internal market. this must be very clear and it must be reflected in the procedures we choose. on the contrary, only those who take concrete steps towards social integration, who develop and put to work the full potential of the people of europe, have a chance of realising the ambitious lisbon agenda. i say this quite deliberately in the context of the current debate on labour market reform and the reform of social security systems. of course we need flexible, adaptable systems, but we also need modern systems. they are modern if they also provide security, security in the search for work, security at work, security in the event of illness, old age or disability. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. it must find ways of relating these objectives and of allowing them to be mutually supportive. if we want to do that, we must also ensure that the relevant council formations and commission departments are involved on an equal footing and that no new hierarchies are created or old hierarchies are confirmed. we will measure you in your spring report, we will measure you in your guideline package, on whether you meet these objectives and whether you live up to what the streamlining concept promises. secondly, if we want to do justice to lisbon and gothenburg, we must no longer do without the environmental dimension. we must use the full potential of environmental policy to make it available for training and employment. thirdly, mr karas rightly points out in his report that economic policy is a matter of common interest, which must be heard in a coordinated way. if we want to coordinate this, we must also have the courage to talk about investment and about an offensive in this area, given that unemployment is around 8% and the growth rate is below 1%. the european parliament will be involved in this debate and we must safeguard our legal position.
madam president, the commission communication actually incorporates a proposal from the european parliament which we have been discussing in this house since the second stage of monetary union, namely to try to coordinate and link the different policy areas much more closely. we have always felt that this can only work if all policy areas are treated equally and all the councils are considered equal under the auspices of the general council. unfortunately, it took the lisbon process - that was six years later - to really seize such an opportunity, and i am therefore very glad that we are no longer in the thinking phase but in the implementation phase, and we have, madam commissioner, great expectations from the commission that a vote will actually take place. europe is in dire need of this. i am not saying this only in the field of economic and employment policy, but also in the field of social policy and environmental policy. europe is in dire need of this because we cannot afford the luxury of non-coordination. the delors commission once stated that the lack of policy coordination costs us growth points, and that automatically means that we also lose jobs in the european union. we are dependent on this state of affairs coming to an end, and therefore the new paper is really welcome. but it is only to be welcomed if it can also be based on more secure data than today, and we can also make it clear to the citizens that the process of coordination is not just another european vocabulary or instrument that cannot be proven in practice. what am i trying to say? it would be important if we could actually make it clear that certain economic and employment policy or environmental policy decisions in one member state also harm or benefit the economy and labour markets and the environment in another eu country, halt development, freeze it or even help it, and it would be necessary for statistical data to be able to provide us with the relevant information. european economists regrettably note that this has not been the case to date. but we need a profile of coordination, and this profile can also be seen in the question of how we pool investments, for example in investments in research and development, where europe unfortunately still has a great need to catch up. it is important, however, that parliament be involved in an interinstitutional agreement, at the latest on the reform of the convention, including a treaty amendment.
i have to say, madam president, the lisbon strategy will be reviewed at the special summit next spring. it is not just a question of assessing the implementation of the objectives, but also of correcting measures and integrating new elements. the council decided to add a third dimension to the economic and employment dimension, namely the environmental dimension. i have already mentioned this to my colleagues. i cannot understand why the commission refuses to include environmental objectives. we have discussed the possible re-drafting of the stability pact in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and in the committee on employment and social affairs. my group, the epp/ed, is against any relaxation. this is damaging to the stability of the euro and is causing fear among citizens. i think it is worth noting the increased involvement of the social partners through a tripartite social summit and a more intensive macroeconomic and social dialogue. i would like to make three points in the excellent report by othmar karas. firstly, the coordination between economic policy, employment policy and social integration must be improved. the guidelines to be adopted annually are the main elements for the coordination of employment policy. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the eu's external relations. secondly, the european parliament must be fully involved in the preparations for the spring summit. the commission's proposal must be examined in sufficient time in advance. we need them! we expect the convention to further strengthen our position as representatives of the citizenry. the eu treaty should be amended to give us more co-decision rights at all stages of the coordination process. thirdly, for future eu members: the early integration of the candidate countries is essential in order to achieve the eu's ambitious goal of being the most competitive, dynamic and knowledge-based economy in the world in eight years' time. we call on the commission to involve the competent authorities of these countries, technically but above all logistically.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think i can agree with the rapporteur's last sentence. the epp group and i are also happy with this report and with the compromise reached. i think that with this report we are adding a considerable european element to the protection of the health of workers, even though it is still too long before common european standards of protection are achieved. in this case, the first proposal dates back to 1993. the work on the noise directive was certainly not easy, the positions of the council and parliament were quite different. but the purpose of the conciliation procedure is precisely to achieve an agreement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the protection against noise has been objectively increased, the technical data and details have already been explained by my predecessors. but they are, and this is important in my view, clear, and there is no ambiguity or confusing margin of discretion in their application. the new obligation for employers to provide hearing protection, to check its effectiveness and to guarantee its use. this clearly specifies the general duty of care of the employer. it is also a matter of concern to my group that the specific features of the music and entertainment sector should be taken into account in the application of the directive. this is welcome for reasons of legal certainty and clarity, because it is pointless to turn a blind eye to the fact that the directive applies de jure to orchestral musicians, for example, but is not applied de facto for reasons of convenience or aesthetics. it is therefore more fair to allow a transitional period and to allow the individual member states to find their own ways, together with the social partners. i would also like to stress that, as welcome as the directive is on paper, it must also be put into practice. i have the growing impression that while workers' protection laws are nice on paper, they are not as popular in practice. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. i say this particularly with regard to the candidate countries, because we must also set a special example in this respect.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am a little surprised by the last two speeches, because i had assumed that we had found a reasonable compromise from the first reading to today in the conciliation procedure and that we had also improved the commission proposal on a number of points. i think the mediation was swift and result-oriented, the council was constructive, and i also had the impression that the epp and the liberals had moved a little towards us. i thought the insight had won! but it's not. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think there's another reason why we need to be concerned about implementation. i heard today about the case of a professional musician who works in a famous german orchestra, and this man canceled an interview for fear of reprisals! he was going to describe his problems as a professional musician, and he didn't dare. i think that was probably not the only case. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised. in order to give workers in all sectors, from music to industry, the assurance that they have a right to information and instruction relating to exposure risks, that employers must alert them to them, the directive has made important contributions. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to noise at work.
- mrs ghilardotti, we are aware of this and will try to discuss it with the belgian railways.
- the next item is the report (a5-0397/2002) by mrs sörensen, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties and human rights, on the proposal for a council directive on the short-stay residence permit for victims of illegal immigration or trafficking in human beings who cooperate with the competent authorities (com (2002) 71 - c5-0085/2002 - 2002/0043 (cns)).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. international estimates suggest that traffickers abduct up to 700,000 people each year, mostly women and children. the european union is attracting 120 000 women and children from central and eastern european countries alone every year. these figures do not take into account illegal immigration or human smuggling. this highlights the urgency of tackling this form of organised crime through coordinated cooperation. the draft directive providing for short-term residence permits for victims who cooperate with the competent authorities is an important step. until now, there were no pan-european rules on the treatment of victims of illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings. but to combat this form of crime, we need europe-wide standards. the common practice of deporting illegally arrived persons is not called into question by the short-term residence permit proposed here. instead, authorities are given the opportunity to obtain information and evidence through cooperative victims for the purpose of apprehending and prosecuting traffickers and smugglers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat organised crime, including the introduction of a system of 'common minimum standards' for the protection of victims of crime. a short-term residence permit for cooperative victims, on the other hand, includes the ability to identify structures, disrupt criminal networks and prosecute perpetrators. that must be the target. i would like to take this opportunity to thank patsy sörensen, who has worked very hard on this report. i would like to thank the commission and the other groups for the good cooperation which, in my view, has led to a good outcome and conclusion in this report. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to explain why we cannot vote for this report because the basic coordinates are already completely wrong. the migrants are putting themselves in the hands of people smugglers and traffickers, because legal entry into fortress europe is now virtually impossible. that's the starting point and no other. that is why there is human trafficking and smuggling in the first place, and because the people who then come here are forced into illegality, they are in a precarious situation. that is the only reason why they can be exploited in the way they are. in this respect, i think the commission's proposal is at least honest, because it is clear from the title that it is only about ensuring that all illegal ways of entering are weakened and not about helping clients of traffickers and smugglers. the report also includes smugglers who do nothing but smuggle people across the border illegally for money. i can therefore only say that if it really is a question of aid, as many of my colleagues have suggested, then the border regime must be abolished and a free choice of residence guaranteed at international level.
the commission is aware of the difficulties facing the community in the field of the internal market, and it is aware of the difficulties facing the community in the field of the internal market. we, for our part, agree with the amendments which seek to clarify the proposed system: i am referring to the simplification of the authorization, the possibility of extending the reasonable period of time where there are compelling reasons or the requirement that the victim who has been granted a residence permit must remain at the disposal of the competent authorities. similarly, we can support amendments which specify that the victim must be informed in a language he understands or can submit an asylum application, and amendments which provide that decisions to withdraw or not to renew a residence permit may be subject to appeal and that the withdrawal of a permit must be justified. we also support amendments which seek to clarify certain concepts: the seriousness of the offences concerned or the examples of vulnerable people. we cannot, however, support proposals which eliminate the provision of social benefits such as access to the labour market, vocational training and education. we are talking about short-term residence permits, and these measures will not only have no significant economic dimension but will above all be an important incentive for cooperation with the police authorities. we also agree that minors should not be included in the common system. the provision of a specific framework to ensure greater protection for minors, who are particularly vulnerable victims, is of paramount importance. finally, we understand that it is harmful to give victims the possibility to maintain relations with the networks in order to serve as informers. we must be aware of the power of these trafficking networks, the vulnerability of the victims and the risk that such a solution would entail. finally, we do not support the amendments which, although fair and well founded, seem to us to go beyond the legal basis of this instrument: i am referring to the protection of privacy, the identity of the victim in the context of judicial proceedings or the recognition and redress of damages suffered, which are relevant to other texts, both at european and national level. i would like to thank parliament once again for its support of this initiative by the commission.
- thank you very much, commissioner vitorino. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. we could now move on to the next item on the agenda, but we have a small problem: commission president prodi is joining us, but we will have to wait a little longer before he arrives in parliament. we therefore adjourn for a few minutes. (the sitting was suspended at 9.35 a.m. and resumed at 9.45 a.m.)
president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission will be presenting its second contribution to the convention today, which will deal with the future institutional architecture of the union. i want to make it clear from the outset, in order to avoid any misunderstanding caused by press reports, that i am presenting today, as planned, the only text that the commission has adopted. as for the document on the constitution of the european union, which has been echoed in the press, it is nothing more than a technical exercise, a feasibility study which commissioners barnier and vitorino and i have commissioned from a group of legal experts from the commission in order to get a first idea of how a treaty could be organised. this document is essentially based on the structure of the preliminary draft submitted by the praesidium to the convention. as i have said, this is a technical working document and has not been discussed or approved by the college, which is therefore not politically responsible for its content. although it was mainly designed for internal use, i felt it was my duty to inform president giscard of this and, in the interests of transparency, we decided to make it available on the internet by this evening, in order to offer - as others have already done - a working tool to the convention and to anyone who might find it useful. to set the tone for my presentation and the debate that will follow, i would like to recall a key figure in the first major foundation of the european project. explaining his famous method, jean monnet said: i never thought we could change human nature, but we can change the context in which people operate. by giving the same rules and the same democratic institutions, we can get men to behave differently among themselves. in the community, europeans thus learn to live together as one people. we are not bringing states together, we are bringing people together. if we are to look forward today, far ahead, we must stand on the shoulders of the great statesmen who have gone before us. it is a gesture of seriousness and humility, and it is with humility that i propose to take up monnet's intuition in view of the great challenges of the future. to unite all the citizens of europe we must create complete harmony between the states and the peoples. the debate over the last few months, since the convention took office, has already cleared up many doubts and answered many questions. firstly, this debate has made it clear that the citizens do not want the union to withdraw from the fields in which it is present. in fact, people are calling for more europe in foreign policy, in the field of justice and security and in social matters. in addition, there is a broad consensus on the community method, which is at the root of so many of our successes. relations between the main institutions certainly need to be clarified and streamlined, but even the most sceptical have understood that without a strong community element europe would become less efficient but also less democratic. our contribution to the convention is to make these demands our own. in summary, it has three objectives: the union must become more democratic, more effective and clearer. the road to achieving them is not yet mapped out in detail, but we already know the starting and finishing points. the re-founding of europe must start from the dual nature of the union, which is a union of peoples and states, to which is added a third source of legitimacy for the union, namely the defence of the common interest. our path must lead us to build the world's first true supranational democracy. to give our structure a more democratic dimension, the role and responsibilities of the main institutions must be better defined. we therefore propose two innovations. the first concerns the procedure for appointing the commission. the president of the commission must be elected by the european parliament by at least two thirds of the votes cast and by secret ballot. the council then, after confirming the appointment of the president, appoints the other members of the commission in agreement with him or her. the european parliament finally approves the newly constituted full college. the second innovation concerns the commission's dual responsibility to the european parliament and the council. we propose that both institutions should have the right to censure the commission. this will bring greater balance to the institutional triangle and strengthen the commission's position as a guardian of the general interest. it is clear that this is a particularly delicate and courageous proposal, but in my view the system proposed distributes decisionmaking power more equitably between the representatives of the governments of the member states and the representatives of the peoples, that is to say between the council and parliament. for the same reason, we believe that we should generalise the codecision method. all european laws, always proposed by the commission, must be adopted by a majority in the council and also decided by the european parliament. finally, as i have often said in this house, the time has come to bring this house up to the level of any other democratically elected parliament by reforming the union's financing, which is the hallmark of this kind of responsibility of all the world's parliaments. we want to give the european parliament more power in deciding on resources. the union's budget must therefore be adopted by the european parliament and the council, following a procedure based on codecision, as we have just said. as the draft treaty submitted by the praesidium also recognises, the resources of the union should have their own character; the distinction between compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure is thus made. ladies and gentlemen, the highlights of the communication are all part of one system. the democratic legitimacy of our institutions, for example, is closely linked to their functioning. our main proposals in this respect are summed up in three points: the first is the abolition of the unanimity rule, and that is because the darkest moments in the recent history of the union are linked to this rule. if the right of veto has sometimes led to paralysis of decision-making with 15 members, imagine what can happen with 25 or more. that is why i think that the majority rule should be general. however, the current weighting system is very complex and is not accessible to citizens, and not only to citizens: it's impossible for even the experts to understand. we therefore propose that the council should take almost all decisions by a simple double majority, that is to say, by a vote representing both the majority of the member states and the majority of the citizens of the union. for the most delicate decisions we obviously envisage the use of a strengthened majority. the second point concerns the presidency of the council, an issue which has caused rivers of ink to flow. in my view, the proposal put forward by several parties to create a president of the union creates more problems than it solves. (applause) i would like to thank if, on the one hand, it contributes to the continuity and visibility of the union, on the other hand, it denies the member states and deprives us all of participation at european level. there are two other problems. who would elect the president of the union? who should he answer to? and, above all, as prime minister verhofstadt said, what would you do for 360 days a year when the council is not in session and george bush does not call him? it is clear that this charge would open a breach in our institutional structure. we therefore recommend that the rotation system for the presidency of the european council, the general affairs council and the permanent representatives committee be maintained. for all other formations, we propose a new formula: the members of the council formations shall elect a president from among themselves, who shall hold office for one year. this formula gives greater continuity to the work and entrusts the presidencies to personalities who enjoy the full confidence of their peers. the third point concerns external representation. the union must act as a single actor on the international stage to defend its values and promote its model of society. in the field of trade, the union is already on an equal footing with other players on the international scene. so why can't we be just as credible politically? we must have imagination and courage here, because it is absolutely necessary to give the union a single voice in international politics. our solution is the union secretary for foreign affairs. this new figure is appointed by the european council together with the president of the commission and is also vice-president of the commission itself. similarly, it is clear that the secretary of the union must answer personally to both the european council and the president of the commission. however, as a member of the commission, he shares the responsibilities of the college towards the european parliament. as you can see, this is an important innovation, but, again, unavoidable. given the scale of the change - this is important - we have provided for a transitional period, at the end of which the secretary of the union would assume his full functions, which i want to indicate here briefly. the secretary of the union shall exercise the commission's right of initiative in foreign policy independently within the framework of the council's guidelines. the council, or a group of member states, may, however, request it to submit to the council appropriate proposals for the attainment of common objectives. the union secretary for foreign affairs is also responsible for implementing joint decisions and, more importantly, is the union's sole representative in foreign policy vis-à-vis third countries and other international bodies. several of the union's activities are linked to foreign policy, such as trade policy and development cooperation. the continuity of these actions will be ensured by the cooperation between the secretary of the union and the president of the commission, who in this case acts as coordinator. the question of the union's external representation also arises in the economic field. the question of the eurozone's representation in international fora must be resolved. the euro is a recognised economic force: it must also be a political force and must make its voice heard abroad. i now turn to the third and final point of our proposal: simplification and clarity. the current corpus of directives, decisions and regulations which together make up our legislative activity is perhaps the greatest barrier to citizens' understanding of the european institutions. the commission feels that it is time to put the instruments at our disposal in order. we therefore propose to classify the standards into only three categories: the council, acting by a qualified majority, shall adopt the laws referred to in article 1 (2) by a qualified majority of its component members. the constitutional treaty must draw a clear distinction between laws and implementing regulations. in addition, it is necessary to clearly define who implements european legislation. we propose that the commission alone should have the executive powers - i repeat, the executive powers - and that it should be accountable to parliament and to the council. the principle of transparency must also apply to the so-called comitology. we therefore think that it is appropriate to retain only the advisory committees. i repeat: when the legislator decides to implement a law at european level, the commission must have the executive responsibility. where, on the other hand, the commission is to exercise a delegated legislative function, it is appropriate that the two legislative branches - the council and the parliament - should be placed on an equal footing as regards the possibility of exercising control over the commission's activities, i.e. the so-called callback. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i said at the beginning, recalling the words of jean monnet, that we must look far ahead in this phase of the construction of a united europe. the debate, stimulated by the convention in recent months, has already greatly broadened our horizons. national parliaments and governments have believed in you from the start and have sent leading personalities to represent them. the convention's objective has become more ambitious. it is no longer simply a question of ensuring the functioning of the institutions after enlargement, but of defining the general shape of our union for the next generations. i'm happy about this development. the convention, which your parliament and i have strongly wanted, offers our citizens and the whole world a reflection on all aspects of our institutions. i'm also glad it's done in the sunlight. in the coming months a new united europe will be born, and we can be proud of having brought it into being in a transparent and democratic way. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, mr president of the commission, members of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! the president of the commission has just received a lot of applause. i am glad for him personally, but i am also glad for the cause, and it is not always the case that we can applaud the president of the commission in this way. but i would like to say to the president of the commission that we, the group of the european people's party and the european democrats, would like to thank him and the commission as a whole for the work they have done. i would also like to add that our group is essentially on the side of the commission when it comes to the future of the european union and its institutions. this does not exclude that there may be differences of opinion on specific issues, and this debate today is also a debate in the context of a process in which there is an exchange of views, and in this process there are also others involved, such as governments, with whom one must reach a conclusion. i think the most important thing for the debate in the coming months is that the commission and parliament take the community method very clearly and unambiguously as the basis for the outcome of the convention, and community method means the joint action of the institutions of the european union, and it means that we reject the intergovernmental method with all our resolve. i say it very clearly here, in public: if in the end the intergovernmental method were to take precedence in the convention, we would not agree to it! we are fully on the side of the commission in this. (applause from the centre) we want a democratic europe, and a democratic europe means for us representative democracy at the level of the european union. this means that the european parliament is strongly involved in all legislative matters, as romano prodi has said, a 100% co-legislator. but a democratic europe in the sense of representative democracy also means that we recognise the principle of subsidiarity. if we do not want a chamber at the level of the european union, composed of national representatives, then we must also make an effort to define: what are european tasks? all non-european tasks are tasks which are the responsibility of the member states of the european union, and it is the responsibility of the member states of the european union to define: what is a national matter? what is a regional issue? what is a municipal matter? the principle of representative democracy must apply at all four levels - local, regional, national and european. that means that we must combine the community method at european union level with the principle of subsidiarity. we need a europe which is capable of acting - i can emphasize this fully - more clarity, more clarity. it is absolutely crucial for us - and this is linked to the community method - that the europe we are building is a europe of law. because if it is not a europe of law, then it is an intergovernmental europe, and then we open the door to opportunism in politics, and that is europe in the past always got very bad. i cannot now, in the four minutes i have, go into the many details, but i would urge us to make this methodological question the guiding principle for the individual decisions we have to make. i would ask the members of the convention - and i can say this now - to ensure that the results are achieved in the convention! if we fail to reach a conclusion in the convention and delegate this task to the intergovernmental conference, what comes out of the intergovernmental conference will be less of a community method than if we worked it out in the convention. that is why i am asking you, i am asking you, to do our work in the convention, to be able to compromise there so that we can put forward a reasonable proposal for a european constitution by the end of june 2003. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president of the commission, unlike my colleague from the liberal group, i was not able to read the commission's communication as the spokesman for the fourth group in this house, because i have just learned that it is 145 pages long, and i congratulate mr duff on his super ability to read the document at such speed. i would like to say, mr president, that i welcome the fact that the commission is making a substantial and constructive contribution to the convention at this stage and is speaking in good time, because this ensures that the commission's contribution can be incorporated into the work of the convention. we shall begin in january to work out the specific contents of the constitutional treaty, and i am sure that the commission's proposals will play an important role in this. i share the objectives you have mentioned, mr president of the commission, namely to make the european union more democratic, more efficient and more transparent. i welcome very much the fact that you have emphasized the dual nature of the european union as a union of states and peoples, and i think that the convention is indeed intended to make the european union the first genuine supranational democracy in the world, as you have just called it. i should like to mention very briefly the things which i support in the light of what you have just said: the clear commitment to the community method, your proposals to improve and strengthen parliament, to extend the codecision procedure to all legislative decisions. i support the proposal that the president of the commission should be elected by the european parliament in future, and i also share your rejection of the creation of a permanent president of the council. i also support the legislative proposals you have just mentioned. i would like to raise a problem which you did not mention in your speech, namely the question of the division of the treaties. it is generally assumed that the division of the treaties entails that the entire constitutional treaty should in future be primary law. but the reasons for dividing the constitutional treaty into two parts have not yet been discussed, and it is of course a question of the different revision procedures of these two parts of the treaty. i would therefore be interested, mr president of the commission, if you would make statements in your proposal today on this question of different revision procedures of the constitutional treaty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that is what i am saying.
- mr president, mr president of the commission! we have asked for a proposal from the commission to solve the institutional problems. now that it is here - at last - we welcome it! the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the commission's position on a number of issues is clearer: majority decision-making in the council as a rule, good. the european parliament's codecision in legislation as a rule, well, the involvement of the interior and the judiciary in community procedures, also well, the creation of a union secretary or foreign minister as vice-president of the commission with a special relationship with the council, well, a workable compromise to solve a difficult problem, and more. i see a number of positive points in your proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i want to pick one out, especially one. that is the point of appointment and political responsibility of the commission. they propose that the president of the commission be elected by the european parliament. that's good, a necessary step forward. but at the same time you say that this president of the commission must be elected by a two-thirds majority in the european parliament, and that prevents the outcome of the european elections from being reflected in the decision-making process at european union level, which is exactly what you want here, namely that voters should decide who they want to see as president of the commission for the next five years. this is the built-in permanent compromise or the built-in permanent austrian grand coalition. we cannot and will not be part of this! the second is that the european council should confirm the election of the president of the commission by the european parliament. so what's next? by majority or unanimous vote? what do you suggest? and if the council doesn't confirm, then what? does parliament have the right to dissolve the council? that's what i'd suggest. there is no conflict-resolution mechanism in your proposals. finally, and this is what really breaks the barrel, the commission's dual responsibility to parliament and the council. yeah, what's going on? you always back down? if parliament says you have our confidence, you will stay, and if the council says you must resign, will you resign? so what does this do to clarify the institutional structure of the european union? it's creating confusion! the commission's proposal on this point creates more problems than it solves, and for the european parliament what you are trying to sell us as a step forward is two steps back! (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! i would like to thank the commission very much for the initiative it has taken in this constitutional process by presenting today's paper, and in particular for the fact that in essential areas the community method is considered the guideline. the questions of decision-making procedures, co-decision, the extension of qualified majority voting and the change in the nice decision-making mechanism by means of the simple double majority are important points of view which can lead to improvement. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one. i see this as the concept of the anti-montesquieu. this is such a mix of executive and legislative roles, back and forth, that it really does the opposite of transparency and accountability! it is a crucial weakness of parliament, because until now the commission has been accountable only to parliament, and only parliament has the power of choice. the question of accountability remains. the possibility of a two-thirds majority remains, but now we are also being asked to elect the president of the commission by a two-thirds majority! this is a complete desecration of this house! the european parliament is being eunuchised! this seems to me to be a very difficult situation. i do not know whether the commission will get what it expects from it, because the moment it is in the same relationship with the council as with the european parliament in all these matters, the natural relationship of an alliance between parliament and the commission is dissolved. in this way, we will not gain anything, but lose something, because the european parliament will have to deal with the technical practice, the day-to-day work with both institutions, with the commission and the council, in an institutionally critical manner, although so far the commission and parliament have been of the same opinion. it should be borne in mind that the role of the foreign secretary, which was positively addressed in the paper, is of course also given a different reference point in this institutional context, which is then to be assessed negatively. i think that this has another consequence: if the european council has the option of being elected, then it is the body of which the president of the commission is a member. the fact that only the president of the commission cannot take part in this debate on a possible recall does not seem to me to be the right starting point. if the european council is to have a parliamentary check on the commission, then the president of the commission must resign from the european council. the council of ministers has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take a decision on the matter. i think that doesn't seem to work either, front and back! i would therefore ask the commission very sincerely to reconsider this question very carefully, especially as it is extremely weak on a crucial issue. the crucial question the convention is concerned with is whether the council, where it acts as legislator, is a legislative council, with a second chamber that meets in public. the commission says that this proposal must be examined. that's all it says! i would have expected the commission to have a clear position on this. the fact that it leaves the legislative council in such a state of confusion and that it presents the european council's relationship with the president of the commission and the commission in such a way seems to me to be a weakening of parliament's rights and of transparency in general. i therefore find this proposal highly questionable on a crucial issue!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i welcome the commission's intention to create the world's first supranational democracy with the eu. it's a great project that people understand and support. in every democracy, the government is elected by the parliament, and that is why i welcome the proposal that here in the eu too the commission and its president should be elected by this parliament and not by the european council. this is a very serious matter and we must put montesquieu back on his feet. so congratulations on getting through this. this is a very important point on which parliament and the commission can now work together. congratulations also for making it clear that you want to have only one executive instead of two executives. there can be no elected president of the european council other than the president of the commission. we do not need to renationalize the institutions, we need to enforce the community method, and the commission and parliament are in agreement with this paper. let's get this through the convention. (applause from the centre)
mr president, i would like to raise objections to the minutes and ask for a correction. page 26, paragraph 11, statute of members: the motion for a resolution tabled by the ppe on 14 november is not included, although i have the electronic transmission protocol here, and the two compromise amendments - both from the small groups and from the two large groups - are not mentioned either. i ask you to correct that.
- mr president, i have to go. i ask, on behalf of my group, under rule 37 (4) of the rules of procedure, that the house decide whether the joint resolution tabled by the ppe and pse should be put to the vote before the others. (applause from the centre) i will explain it as follows: we tabled a motion for a resolution to the administration on 14 november. i have here the electronic record of the filing. that gives priority to our original request. in accordance with article 37 (4), a joint text submitted subsequently replaces the original application. the proposal is therefore the first to be submitted and the first to be voted on. in the event that the house does not follow this, i would ask the president to declare that the amendments tabled by the liberals, the greens and the communists are inadmissible under rule 140 (4) of the rules of procedure, because after that only motions which have not been tabled before can be tabled. the motion for a resolution tabled jointly by these groups has exactly the same content as these amendments, so only one of them can be accepted. it is not worth following this voting list, because we have to vote twice on the same subject. that is contrary to the spirit and the letter of the rules of procedure! (applause from the centre)
mr president, on behalf of my group i expressly support this motion. it is well-founded. we have changed the minutes this morning, and so it is also recorded in the minutes of parliament that the epp motion was tabled first. but i ask you, mr president, to bring about a decision of the house. (applause from the centre)
mr president, you have thought it right to choose the procedure you have chosen. i would like to say on behalf of our group that we disagree with your decision, but i do not want to go into it. i have come because my colleague watson has come. i am firmly opposed to anyone - whether from our own group or from any other - claiming morality for himself and implying that the others have bad intentions! (applause from the centre and the right) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the response of the house, the great support for this phrase i have just said, is sufficient. i have no further explanation to add. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. i would like to speak against that. we have already written a resolution on this very important subject last month and the copenhagen declaration should also include a wording relating to this terrible tragedy. we do not think it appropriate to adopt another supplementary resolution on this subject, but we believe that we will give the whole thing even more weight if we include a wording in the copenhagen declaration. we therefore oppose the motion tabled by the socialist group.
mr president, i would like to ask you a question about wednesday: why is question time to the council again being shortened by half an hour? at the same time, i would like to protest. you know, i think the right to question is a basic parliamentary right. i regret that this is happening more and more often!
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. this report, which sets out the european parliament's position, is intended to contribute to the work of the convention, which is already working very intensively on simplifying european legislation, particularly in working party 9. this is undoubtedly a very urgent matter, because, after all, the citizens should and want to understand europe, and europe should become more understandable. i am sure that the convention will pay great attention to the question of the typology of acts and the hierarchy of norms in the course of its discussion of the concrete content of the constitutional treaty. i would like to limit myself to three critical remarks on this report. the report describes a five-tier hierarchy of standards in the european union: the constitution, the internal laws, the international agreements, the laws and framework laws, and the implementing regulations. this five-level hierarchy is presented in section 1 as a three-level categorization. i think that is rather confusing and not exactly simplifying - but perhaps the citizens will forgive us for that. they will forgive us less if we are obviously about to present them with a tax jurisdiction of the european union and do not even call it that. paragraph 6 refers to the own resources decision as an organic law. the relevant legislative procedure for organic laws is set out in point 9. the ratification of the own resources decision by the national parliaments is therefore no longer foreseen. the introduction of a european union taxation area is a matter for debate. but i do not think that it is possible to include it under the heading 'typology of legal acts and the hierarchy of standards' with the best of intentions! i think it is really questionable to put forward proposals under this report's title which would fundamentally change the nature of the european union as a federation of states. paragraph 5 abandons the previous principle that the member states are masters of the treaties. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to point out that under german constitutional law such a treaty could not be approved.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to express my opinion that the rapporteur's astute reflections are suitable for putting an end to the chaos of procedure, if we are really prepared to follow this transparency and clarity in the hierarchy of standards. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and as legislation has not only become more complex, but also more complex, it is assumed that members are not able to cope with difficult technical problems. the executive therefore wants to be helpful and regulate something in annexes or other forms of legislation, although some of these really complicated political issues of crucial importance are hidden. i think it is right that a hierarchy of standards is proposed to provide reliable forms of cooperation. we need secondary legislation in addition to primary legislation. the commission's proposal is to be incorporated into the treaty of rome, and the council's proposal is to be incorporated into the treaty of rome. i think it is extremely meritorious that the committee has now also agreed that both institutions must have the possibility of withdrawing a proposal, as they are caught in an institutional balance. i think that is really in the best interest of democratic and transparent legislation.
- mr president, i have to go. the hierarchy of norms is normally a subject which will drive any ordinary citizen out of the chamber, but i think it is becoming clear how important this bourlanges report is for the union's ability to act and, of course, for its comprehensibility and, as we shall see, for the democratization of decisionmaking. at home we have three levels of norms: the constitution, the laws and the subordinate implementing provisions. in the eu we have 30 different instruments. the eu's toolbox is therefore far too large and therefore far too confusing, because no one knows where to go and the concepts are also completely confused. it is a totally opaque and partly undemocratic system! the bourlanges report has the great merit of making a quantum leap in this respect. this is a great leap forward in clarity, in democratization. we have made a great effort to document the three levels of the eu: the constitutional level, the legislative level and the sub-legislative standards. in the context of the constitutional level, i think that an easier revision procedure must be found for the second part of the constitution. if we are asked to change all the provisions of the second part by unanimity of 25 or more countries, then we know that the blockade will be imposed. but of course there are also great sensitivities, because majority decisions also mean that you can lose. but this leap and this inner will must come, otherwise we will block each other, and that is not what the citizens want. in the case of legislation, it starts with the fact that we also call laws laws and not as is now the case regulations, which in german means an administrative norm, but not a law. i would be very much in favour of it being called a union law and a union framework law and of co-decision being the rule. in all forms of legislation, codecision must become the rule. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the third aspect is of great importance: the separation of the normal legislative procedure by parliament and the council from the implementing rules adopted by the commission. we need clarity here on what is legislative and what is executive. we could relieve ourselves of the burden by not adopting technical regulations here in parliament, but only the basic standards. mr president, i think this is a great achievement. thank you to mr bourlanges for the great effort he has put into this report, which is a great report indeed.
commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr carlos coelho, on his excellent report, which, in clear and concise terms, contributes to improving the council's draft initiatives on the new functionalities of the schengen information system. i can even add that some of the amendments proposed by the rapporteur are already included in the texts at the level of the council working parties which approve these initiatives. the draft initiatives in question will be discussed for the first time at the justice and home affairs council on 19 december, at the level of the joint committee with iceland and norway, and the commission is ready to support many of the concerns expressed by the rapporteur and which i am sure the house will support. in particular, i share the view that europol's access should be limited to the categories of data registered under articles 95, 99 and 100 of the schengen convention and that it should be ensured that the data in question are not copied or downloaded. such access should not transform sis into an investigative tool, nor should it in any way be disproportionate to the reasons for granting such access. in my view, this access can be useful mainly to give europol the possibility of requesting additional information from the member states in specific cases it is investigating, for example in the context of the fight against terrorism. this is the kind of information that europol is already authorized to request and obtain directly from the member states. as regards data protection, the commission considers that the new provisions relating to the sis which are partly within community competence, in particular as regards article 96, should be examined in the light of their compatibility not only with the 1981 council of europe convention on data protection but also with the content of directive 45/96/ec. similarly, the examination of the proportionality of certain measures could be facilitated by consulting the competent authorities, whether they operate under the third or the first pillar. in this respect, we particularly appreciated the opinion of the joint monitoring authority on these draft initiatives, which we largely share, including the reference to the fact that the authorities responsible for residence permits should be granted extended access to the article 100 data of the security information system in respect of identity documents; however, it should be ensured that such access does not restrict the rights of citizens whose identity documents have been stolen. i believe that this problem raised by the rapporteur, which is a relevant problem, cannot be solved by developing new technical solutions or by introducing new functionalities in sis ii, which, as the rapporteur has said, will in principle be operational in 2006. it must be tackled now and, above all, it must be accompanied by the necessary information to citizens about the existence of the schengen information system and the conditions for its use, including the need to delete certain flags in the event of theft or loss of documents. as regards the schengen ii information system, as the rapporteur has mentioned, the commission has been responsible for developing the new generation of sis since january 2002 and we anticipated the overall approach to the functionalities of the new system in the communication we presented to the council and parliament on 18 december 2001. in summary, i would like to inform the house that the timetable for preparing sis-ii has been respected so far and that the feasibility study is expected to be completed by march 2003. this will enable us to better help the candidate countries to prepare for the future elimination of internal borders, which will only be possible once sis ii is operational. a report by the commission services detailing the current state of work on this study is currently being finalised and will be forwarded to the european parliament and the council early next year.
- mr president, commissioner vitorino, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the spanish initiative and the report by mr coelho are turning a long-standing demand of parliament into reality. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data. this is also urgently needed in the context of new threats from organised crime and terrorism. the possibility of linking calls for tenders is also a real advance. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data protection rules are applied in the member states. in this respect, the report is to be fully supported. as a former rapporteur of this house on the development of the second generation schengen information system, i would like to make a further appeal to the commission and the council to act with urgency. the commission has already indicated that certain extensions of system access can only be carried out together with this next generation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but we have to think beyond that. the convention is likely to dissolve the existing three-pillar model of the european union. this is rightly so, i say, because the intergovernmental pillar of home affairs and justice is the one that has created the data protection problem we are discussing here. the application of 15 national and divergent data protection regulations in the institutions europol and eurojust is already leading to chaos. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the working group 10 of the convention has now rightly proposed that europol be merged. but, commissioner vitorino, that is not enough. we need a complete unification of the schengen acquis, europol and eurojust, and an additional coordination centre for external borders, a kind of 'eurobord'. we need a single system under this roof, which brings together the schengen information system, the customs information system and the europol database, and which is subject to european data protection and is controlled by a european data protection supervisor, a european parliament and a european court of justice. i would like to say a word to the far left of the house, mr krarup: you are against the schengen information system and want to abolish it. i 'll tell you what i 'll say . the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you won't find a majority here! the report by mr coelho, which was adopted today, is a step in the right direction. the big leaps must be made by the convent. we wish you, commissioner, good luck and perhaps a little more courage than you have had so far.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. first of all, i'd like to apologize for the hoarse voice. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. in the late 1990s, after much debate, a directive was adopted allowing only dried, flavoured herbs and spices to be irradiated in the eu. the eu is now again faced with the decision whether to continue to allow only herbs and spices to be irradiated, whether to add to this list a few foods with problematic hygiene conditions such as frog legs and shrimp, or whether to allow the foods allowed in the transitional national rules such as potatoes, poultry, vegetables, shrimp, seafood, frog legs or egg whites. the commission - and the commissioner has just made this clear - has identified these three options in its communication, and in so doing it puts us, the ep, more or less in the position of having to decide whether to accept one of them. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has in fact taken a contradictory decision in its report. i think the commissioner responded shortly afterwards. on the one hand, paragraph 3 calls for us to take note of the commission's proposal that the current list could be considered complete, and it is argued that further herbs, spices and herbal condiments should only be authorised for irradiation in the eu if scientific evidence shows that this is safe and effective. at the same time, the environment committee proposes in paragraph 4 that the significant quantities of irradiated products in some member states should be included in the positive list if this technology can increase the safety of certain foods. this makes it clear that we do not have a clear position, because on the one hand we say in paragraph 3 that we want a very restrictive decision, but on the other hand we make it clear in paragraph 4 that we are in favour of a more far-reaching decision. however, the european parliament is quite clear about its position, as expressed in paragraph 5 of the report, that before amendments are submitted to include foodstuffs in the positive list, a thorough examination must be carried out for each foodstuff, demonstrating that all the conditions for authorizing food irradiation, as laid down in annex i to the 1999 directive, have been clearly fulfilled. the commission communication makes it quite clear, and the commissioner has just made it quite clear, that consumers do not want food irradiation, that even a large part of the food industry rejects food irradiation and declares it to be unnecessary. the eurotoc, an independent consumer initiative for healthy food - we all know the eurotoc chefs - also made it clear that irradiating food is not compatible with their self-image and within a few days they had also won a very large majority for their resolution against food irradiation. i think that this shows that the radiation directive is very critical and very contradictory. we must be clear about one thing: radiation is only useful if it is used to conceal, hide and perhaps to give consumers a false impression of a quality that does not exist. only then does irradiation make sense, because if we had good hygiene conditions, then the products would be perfect and would not need irradiation. secondly, it is essential to make them durable for long haul journeys. this is particularly evident in the shrimps that are brought from northern germany to morocco for shelling. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would therefore like to conclude by saying that the committee has taken very different positions on paragraphs 3 and 5 and tomorrow's vote will show whether we are acting in the interests of consumers and consumer protection or whether we are also making concessions to the industry, which has been lobbying heavily in recent weeks. i think we should all be aware that radiation is a very critical issue, that it can also involve certain risks, although we may not yet know all these risks, and that consumers reject them. i hope that tomorrow we will reach a decision in the interests of consumer protection so that the commission and the council can begin their work and that we will also make the report of the committee on the environment a little clearer in its contradictions and arrive at a clear position which will then also be a basis for the further work of the council and the commission.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i thank the commission for its clear presentation of the situation regarding the treatment of food with ionising radiation in the european union. i also thank the commissioner for his clear words on this matter. when the directive was being drawn up in 1999, we were already concerned that the commission would not be able to submit a comprehensive positive list by 31 december 2000. what happened? what happened? we are now approaching 31 december 2002 and we are not discussing whether the list will be adopted, but rather we are re-examining our discussions from before the directive was drawn up. i think you can't just stand by and not accept it. in its communication, the commission notes that the fao and who consider it scientifically proven that a treatment is safe for the consumer. the who even calls for greater use because the procedures reduce the risks to the consumer. the scientific committee on food finds that 17 types of products are safe for treatment with ionising radiation, including all products that are currently treated in european union countries. the critical dose is also not to be exceeded in the european union. the communication states that the main conditions for treatment with ionising radiation - authorisation, labelling and control - are in place and that the methods of detection of exposure have been validated, i.e. that they are in place. i am beginning to think that it is intolerable that this framework should be used for fraud, cheating and so on. we have the evidence. we can determine whether the products were handled illegally or legally. why, then, should we keep having this discussion? the conditions for drawing up a positive list and for its examination by the commission are therefore all met. but the commission is hesitant. the reasons for this are clear from the survey it carried out. for example, it states that food manufacturers do not want this treatment. but why don't they want it? they say very clearly in the communication that they are afraid that their products will be boycotted because within the european union, within this debate, an ideology has spread that ignores all scientific knowledge, that simply does not accept everything that has been developed and presented so far. and then we start to argue and lament about how terrible this is. then the argument of hygiene is brought up. i helped draft the directive on hygiene conditions for handling fresh meat. i'm the last person in the world to be cutting corners here. but we have spoken about haccp in the current revision of the directive on food hygiene. we can see very clearly that this is not the case everywhere, that we also have to use other methods to make products safer for the consumer. that is the purpose of this procedure. the only way to do this is for the commission to draw up the positive list very quickly, and not just in the form it is now proposing. it is necessary to change the situation in the european union. we cannot afford to carry this ideological weight around with us all the time.
the rapporteur. - mr president, it was not by chance that this parliament decided to debate the socrates and youth for europe community action programmes here today. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i thought, however, that socrates and youth for europe were a larger and more important issue in european politics, which needed to be presented to the general public, who had experienced some stomachaches and headaches in dealing with it. this pain has finally come to the european court of auditors, which has identified a number of significant weaknesses in its special report. the court of auditors confirms that some funds are not used in line with the objectives of the programmes or that the objectives are not clearly defined. the lack of adequate pre-financing for certain projects made the work of project managers and contractors very difficult, if not impossible. for good reason, more and more schools and universities and others are turning away from these programs. i can understand that. in addition, the disproportionate administrative costs and the burdensome administrative procedures are out of proportion to the benefits. it is not possible for the funds provided to remain simply in the machinery of the administration instead of reaching those for whom they are actually provided. the commission also found that the aid was not being paid in time, that there was a lack of overall coordination and that there were no effective control and evaluation structures, mainly because of the complexity of the programmes. and what is really incomprehensible is the delay in the submission of the evaluation report by the commission. this caused the corresponding delay in the subsequent court of auditors report. this is inexcusable, especially since this was a report on the evaluation of a report from 1995 to 1999 and we are now, almost four years later, in 2003. in 1999, we were ready to launch a second programme, now six years long, from 2000 to 2006, immediately after the first programme, without any timely evaluation of the previous one. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have no doubt that these programmes are important for transnational cooperation in a united europe, and are even a necessity and a complement to education. but not only that, the citizens of europe - whether students or young professionals - are also coming closer together, because the exchange of views, the so-called active dialogue and the targeted dissemination of knowledge about european relations promote mutual, social, european political and economic understanding and further european integration. the five-year programme from 1995 to 1999 allocated €920 million to socrates and €126 million to youth for europe - quite a lot. in the subsequent programme 2000 to 2006, this sum doubled. this is significant. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. i therefore ask that the so-called technical assistance offices be replaced by bodies governed by public law, that we ensure a clear division of powers between the commission and the national authorities, in order to eliminate the differences between the member states. the national bodies must be provided with sufficient human, material and financial resources to enable them to carry out the tasks entrusted to them effectively. we are all agreed that good education is the basis for future economic success and europe's competitiveness in the world. the specific measures to address the problems identified in the report are a step in the right direction and will ensure that the socrates and youth for europe programmes will be more efficient, more transparent and more enthusiastic in the future.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, commissioner byrne, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to thank all the colleagues who have worked so hard on this report and in the committee. i would like to thank in particular our president, mrs redondo, the secretariat, which has done an excellent job, the scientific service and the commission. february 2001 saw what may have been the worst outbreak of mcs in europe to date. ireland, the netherlands, france and, most notably, the united kingdom were affected. in britain alone, where the disease also broke out, an official estimate is that 6.5 million animals were killed in the course of the disease control. other sources say as many as 10 million. in the netherlands, there were 285,000, and in france, after four outbreaks, there were still at least 65,000. the consequences were disastrous for all involved. a future disease policy based solely on eradicating the virus by killing the animals is neither meaningful nor will it be accepted by the people of the eu any longer. in order to contribute to a better policy, not only at eu level, our parliament set up a temporary committee at the beginning of this year, and not a committee of inquiry, as some colleagues still seem to believe. our task was, among other things, to analyse the situation in the countries concerned on the basis of numerous hearings and visits to the country, to make a fair assessment and to draw the appropriate conclusions from the lessons for a new pan-european mfa policy. this also means that we are not the arbiter, nor are we in a position to arbitrate the dispute between scientists. we cannot make any judgments, let alone prejudgments in the report, which we cannot prove. this was not within our competence and our instruments were not suitable for this. and i am sure, ladies and gentlemen, that any other government in the european union, with a similar outbreak scenario - 50 to 70 outbreaks at a time, spread across the country, and then in sheep - would have had similar problems to deal with. as we now know, the contingency plans drawn up since 1992, after the eu stopped vaccination for economic and trade reasons, were flawed and designed for a few outbreaks, not such a worst-case scenario. 'kill before vaccination, or just vaccinate and then kill' was the motto, especially since the international veterinary office, the oie, only re-established the status of 'mcs-free' without vaccination 12 months after the last vaccination. six months have passed since may of this year - a huge step forward. we're pleading three months. i should like to briefly mention some of our most important demands. not only do effective contingency plans form part of a future control policy, but all member states need to review their communication and decision-making structures for emergencies and conduct cross-border emergency drills in real time. it is also essential that the psychosocial impact of a control policy on the farmers concerned and all those subject to a movement ban be taken into account in the plans far more than has been the case so far. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules. each farmer must also be careful about what he feeds his animals, from whom he buys them, and how quickly he brings them back into his old stock. because it was an irresponsible farmer who caused the outbreak in britain. the traceability of animals and thus their labelling must also be improved. it is also necessary to prevent, as far as possible, illegal imports of animal products from countries where mcs is endemic. the commission has already decided that travellers from these countries, for example, may no longer import such products. the most important thing we want for future disease control is that emergency vaccination, with the aim of keeping the animals alive and using their products locally, is considered a first-choice means. this would be a decisive improvement on the past. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal health standards are not exceeded. so there is a great need for enlightenment. however, i want to make one thing clear: an infected stock will always be killed, as will animals that have had dangerous contact. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the vaccination of the general public is not restricted to the general public. no serious expert has ever called for this in the hearings. so don't give people false hope. that would be irresponsible indeed. nevertheless, further research is needed to develop a suitable and durable marker vaccine that can cover all serotypes in order to clearly distinguish vaccinated from diseased animals. in germany, by the way, until 1990 only cattle were vaccinated, no other animals. ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that with the policy we are proposing, we need not see the kind of images that have been seen around the world in the last year. one more point on the vote. i would like to ask you to support my amendments and those of the socialist group. it is also a way of removing a number of accusations against the british government which we as a parliament - and this is my personal parliamentary understanding - are not allowed to make and which are not justified in that way. i understand that they were made in political excess, i am a politician too. but please, take your argument home. the european parliament is the least suitable of all platforms. and another thing: there are 14 other member states in the european union besides the united kingdom. it is important, ladies and gentlemen, that not only the british government but also the council, the commission, the candidate countries, the oie and other countries such as the usa, australia, argentina and south africa can take our report seriously. we need a global strategy to combat disease, because mcs is not a british disease, it is an international one. i think we have succeeded in representing the people in the 15 member states in an excellent way in properly discussing this issue and reaching ground-breaking conclusions. because unfortunately, one thing is certain: the next mcs outbreak is bound to happen. the only question is where, when and how much. we must be prepared for that. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, the final report of the standing committee on foot-and-mouth disease, which is to be discussed today in the european parliament, is very much appreciated by me as a member of that committee. the rapporteur has prepared the final report in a fair and professional manner. the expert advice given in the many hearings was based on the consensus to oppose this epidemic. in view of the worldwide spread of foot-and-mouth disease, the risk of introduction of foot-and-mouth disease from the affected areas into the european union is expected to increase in the context of the progressive globalisation and liberalisation, i.e. due to the already very large and increasing international trade and movement of persons. whereas previously three types of mcs were common on the european continent and could be successfully controlled by vaccination, europe now faces the risk of introducing a large number of disease strains. the problem is that, like the flu, the vaccine only works if the vaccine strain used is largely identical to the strain of the disease. prophylactic vaccination against viral strains makes little sense, since it is impossible to know beforehand which specific mks virus is being introduced. the report does, however, advocate emergency vaccination for the disease, which naturally requires rapid identification of the specific strain of the disease. this view is controversial. but without successful control of the disease in the source areas, i see no alternative and no other possibility at the present stage of research. i would stress that emergency vaccination is intended to prevent the spread of foot-and-mouth disease. that is why my group has also proposed that a global strategy for the control of foot-and-mouth disease be drawn up within the framework of the fao countries. in the many talks with farmers, representatives of public authorities and associations, and citizens deeply concerned and outraged on ethical grounds, the demands on the policy were clearly formulated. this includes the need to finally put a stop to the spread of human trafficking across europe by taking appropriate measures. this is not just a problem of animal welfare, but also a problem of disease prevention. the community must intervene in national control strategies under certain conditions, especially since each eu country is part of the common internal market and can have important relations with third countries. all member states must be able to have at their disposal a sufficient number of well-qualified veterinary personnel for the prevention and control of animal diseases. the issues related to emergency vaccination against mcs and the continued use of vaccinated animals should be further investigated scientifically. it is not acceptable to kill ten million animals for no reason, if there are better methods, both ethical and economic. fifthly, i expect the commission to put forward proposals for better legal protection for those affected, in order to compensate for the high financial losses and consequential damage in the regions. in conclusion, i would like to say that i would like to see a wide publicity in the review of the common european agricultural policy, and not only in the most difficult and darkest times of crisis!
mr president, commissioner byrne, i remember that we spoke about foot-and-mouth disease at the brussels conference a year ago - i was chairman at the time and i watched you on the monitor. i must say, the points of view have converged. we were a little further apart then. i explained the position of the committee on agriculture that we cannot solve this problem with a disease-free policy and with culling. the commission then took a different view. i admit that the international organizations also had a different attitude on the question of when vaccination should be given. we're one step closer to that. i think that's progress. i believe that with a targeted vaccination, we can limit the material damage, but also the cultural damage. europe has sent a message to the world through the scandals, particularly the plague and the fires that burned there, that we must not repeat. let me say a word about prophylaxis. i am not in favour of a permanent prophylactic vaccination, but we should also make it clear that a preventive vaccination is always a necessary part of a combatant vaccination. the timing must be set. the commission must be attentive here. we must also give countries room to manoeuvre so that we can arrive at an early stage on a ring and control vaccination. this does not necessarily include continuous prophylactic vaccination. i would like to speak against that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in even a small part of a member state today has very rapidly had serious repercussions for the whole community. the considerable losses of livestock resulting from the killing of entire herds and the profound anxiety and uncertainty of the whole of society in the countries concerned, but also in all other parts of europe, have caused great financial losses not only to agriculture but to the whole economy, especially tourism, in the regions concerned. disease control can no longer be seen as a means of safeguarding livestock or certain commercial interests, but must also take account of the changing lifestyles of the population, their mobility and the changing attitudes towards the environment and animal welfare. for this reason, the standing committee on foot-and-mouth disease has dealt extensively and comprehensively with the whole problem of the disease, including its impact on the population and the economy. while we do not need to reinvent the wheel, there are many things we can do better: limit risks, minimize economic damage, and still take animal welfare and human feelings into account. it's not just a few cows and sheep. we're all affected and affected. blaming everyone for everything is not going to help. i also want to reject the clear blame for the farmers, as has just been done, whether in the united kingdom or in any other country. it is important to control all imports. the commission's response to the crisis is to be rapid and effective. mass killing cannot be the solution, and i am at least strongly in favour of emergency vaccination. they seem to be the best means of controlling the disease quickly and keeping the animals alive. we all know that meat from vaccinated animals is completely safe and can therefore be marketed. i should like to thank our rapporteur, mr kreissl-dörfler. i would like to thank the chairman of our committee, mrs redondo jiménez, but also the commission, the members of the commission who have helped us. enjoy a nice steak afterwards.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. the standing committee on foot-and-mouth disease has made important findings on the management of the crisis of the past year. it has defined the necessary strategies for the future, including important suggestions for the legislative work to be done. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is beyond question that in the field of animal husbandry, animal health, hygiene and prophylaxis, the first requirement of animal husbandry is to take into account that the most closed system in animal husbandry can make an important contribution to animal health, animal welfare and also to human health. but i think that the public debate also needs to focus more on the need to differentiate between animal diseases that are dangerous to human health and those that are purely about animal health, animal welfare and the protection of valuable stocks. we must not forget that, despite the crisis of the past year, the fight against animal diseases, which are a problem for human health, has been a success story in recent decades, thanks to the enormous economic efforts of all concerned. in fact, it was and is absurd that public perception and practice stigmatise vaccination against foot-and-mouth disease and, on the other hand, that the necessary instrument of modern, responsible animal husbandry for many species includes prophylactic measures, including animal treatment and also vaccination for daily handling. timely handling of emergency protective vaccination? i would add, also flexibility in ring vaccination. the principle of vaccination and testing should be the first option to be made the standard of action and the trade restriction should be reduced to a maximum of three months, as the scientific committee has already stated in 1999. i would add one very important point, regardless of the legislative work to be done: if all market participants could agree that the firms concerned, who want and must have access to these new instruments, will not be left behind and will not be excluded from the market if they use this future strategy, then we could save ourselves all this effort. i believe that the key here is to reach a social consensus among all those involved. if we succeed, we will have developed a strategy for the future that can include animal welfare, animal health and social acceptance.
- mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the tenor of the debate this morning was 'prevention is better than cure! ' prophylactic vaccination: no, ring vaccination: yes. the vaccine is not recommended for use in children under the age of three. improved systems are essential in the future. it was coming through. the 2001 foot-and-mouth disease outbreak in the european union was probably the most severe ever recorded in terms of the number of animals killed. the standing committee on foot-and-mouth disease has worked very effectively and hard for several months, and there have been many compliments and thanks to the staff this morning. analysis of the past management of the disease is a very important starting point for changes in future policy. the implementation of community legislation, community finances and, in particular, the formulation of proposals for the prevention and control of agricultural diseases are of equal importance to european producers and consumers. let me say this as someone who comes from the border region with the netherlands, from a very highly refined area: we must once again stress the need for better networking in the context of cooperation in the event of an acute epidemic. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in my constituency - and i may say this as an example to conclude - a large-scale test of crisis management for foot-and-mouth disease has just taken place, to the great consternation of many farmers, involving many institutions. you have to think of it as a fire drill, a firefighting exercise without a fire. the most rapid reactions in case x were the norm, and the result of this crossborder cooperation between the netherlands and germany was really quite impressive. let's all hope this test case doesn't become a reality. we are counting on the commission's proposals. we are very excited, and we hope that in the future we will have a disease policy that leads to greater acceptance among farmers and consumers than we have had in the past.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. before we get to the final vote, just a few words. i have not spoken after a report in eight years, but i think it is appropriate today. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. but it was also a question of making the report coherent. it didn't go over well, but that's okay. i am very pleased - and i should like to say this - that the motion by the green group, no 25, was rejected. i'll tell you why. it would, in fact, eliminate the single market in fundamental matters, and you would have to explain to your farmers that if they vaccinate, then the british farmers can eat their own sheep, and the dutch farmers can drink their own milk, because these products will no longer be able to enter the eu market and third-country markets outside the european union. you just have to think about it. it is a very good thing for the welfare of animals, but it is not good for the political interests of the community. that is why i am very glad that the application was rejected. i am also very pleased that we have worked very well together across the political groups in this committee and that we have a large majority for this report today. (applause from the centre)
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the 2003 eu budget is really showing its face. it is a prime example of how it is possible to set up a budget that is extremely frugal, but at the same time to allocate sufficient funds to priorities and new tasks. this budget, which is both conservative and forward-looking, is the result of a fantastically good cooperation with parliament and the rapporteurs. mr färm and mr stenmarck, i must simply express my highest appreciation. i would also like to thank mr colom i naval and, of course, the chairman of the committee, mr wynn, and the whole committee on budgets, on behalf of the commission, for this excellent cooperation. of course, i also thank the council. i would like to emphasize the focused approach to the negotiations, which did not allow us to get stuck in one area, even if it was a minor matter, but to continue negotiating in a targeted manner. the 2003 budget has €99.69 billion in commitment appropriations - this money can be used to make new commitments on behalf of the eu. compared with this year, this is an increase of only 0.26 percent. i'd like to see someone do that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the increase compared with the current year is 1.9%, which is less than the rate of inflation. as a percentage of the eu's gross domestic product, only 1.02 per cent of the eu budget is spent in 2003. that's the lowest level in ten years. the budget for 2003 was set at 103 billion under the financial perspective adopted in 1999, which is 5 billion more than is actually needed for the 2003 budget. ladies and gentlemen, it is now final. the 2003 budget will be the last eu budget for the eu of 15 member states. i would like to congratulate the danish presidency on the outcome of copenhagen. i would like to thank mr böge, the rapporteur for parliament, for the support he has given over the last year and a half to the financing of enlargement. the financial package has had a long run and i am proud as budget commissioner and of course glad that the conclusion of copenhagen is so close to the commission's proposal of january. copenhagen has now sent a real 'shake your hands' signal to all the eu institutions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the council will have 236 new posts available for this preparation, and the commission 500. i should like to thank the budgetary authority on behalf of the commission for this decision. where will the commission use these bodies? the new posts will be 59 in the competition section, 53 in the agriculture section, 56 in the structural funds section, 10 in olaf, 69 in the language section and 60 in the publications office. all areas where it is clear that the acquis must be applied in full from day one and preparations must be made to do so. finally, it is now clear how much money will be available to the new member states in the years 2004 to 2006, namely some eur 10 billion for agricultural policy and eur 21 billion for structural aid. these are large sums, and their implementation must of course be well prepared. the other political priorities for the 2003 budget, welcomed by parliament and the council, are 'stability and security' and 'sustainable and integrated economic development'. these priorities are reflected in the 2003 budget. the budget for the environment directorate-general is thus increased by 14%, and specific funds are allocated to small and medium-sized enterprises in border regions to strengthen their competitiveness. the budget of the directorate-general for research and the joint research centre is a combined eur 3 billion in 2003. this underlines the importance of sustainable and integrated economic development. the priority 'stability and security' concerns measures in the field of 'justice and home affairs' - my colleague mr vitorino's budget is growing by 11% - and measures in the field of foreign policy. the eu budget will be used to cover the common costs of the police mission in bosnia next year. this is an important step towards a common foreign and security policy. we remain committed to our commitments and political commitments in the balkans. i think it is important to stress that for the fourth time a large budget is available, namely more than eur 680 million in 2003. afghanistan will receive substantial eu support and substantial funds will be made available to the global health fund to fight aids, tuberculosis and malaria. europe is the biggest donor here. ladies and gentlemen, this year we have created the new fund for solidarity aid in the event of major natural disasters in the member states and the enlarging countries. it will be available in future in a volume of up to 1 billion each year, including in 2003. overall, the balance of 2002 is extremely positive for the work in the budgetary field. we have a completely new financial regulation for the eu budget, for the european development fund and for the other institutions. today the commission has adopted the entire implementing regulation for this financial regulation. the reform of financial management is no longer just a matter of paper, but determines the work of all those who work with european funds. the 2003 budget will therefore be the first budget to be implemented under the new rules of the new financial regulation. the 2003 budget, as already emphasised, is the last for the eu of 15. now we must bring the financial perspective into line with the copenhagen decisions to draw up the 2004 budget for the eu of 25. in february we will discuss the adjustment measures in a trilogue. i hope that will also bring clarity to the future of northern cyprus. the commission is also proposing to increase the preaccession aid for bulgaria and romania and to include turkey in the budget for preaccession aid. that is what the copenhagen council decided. the budget reflects the dynamics of european development. i look forward to working together on these future issues, because i am sure that we will find good solutions to these as we did for the 2003 budget.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council presidency, the commission, the council and the commission are all very much aware of the fact that the european parliament has been given a very important role in the negotiations on the maastricht treaty. the 2003 budgetary procedure was indeed a very pleasant one compared with those we had to deal with in previous years, and i would like to thank the two rapporteurs, mr färm and mr stenmarck, very warmly for this. it has therefore proved to be a success that we have relied on the scandinavian seriousness in the budgetary procedure, and the whole thing has been completed by the danish presidency of the council, so that many cliffs could be overcome early on and we could achieve a very harmonious procedure together, especially in the second reading. i think that deserves a special mention. we in the epp group are very proud that we have been able to put into practice many of our concerns together with colleagues from the other groups, and, of course, we ask you, madam commissioner, to support us accordingly. i 'll make this very clear . it is not very sensible for us as parliament and the council to work hard on a budget and then in the end many things which were of particular importance to both parts of the budgetary authority do not reflect in the budget's execution in everyday life. if you refer to the budget figures for 2003 and the low growth rate, which we all welcome and support, then, of course, we must also say in the interest of fairness that we have taken a number of measures to achieve these low growth rates because the 2002 budget was not implemented as it was intended. i am thinking here of frontloading measures, as we call it in our native language, the payment of commitments which will actually be due to us next year, with funds from 2002, the transfer of funds we have made available through the solidarity fund from the 2002 budget to 2003. if we add all this together, plus the supplementary budget still to be expected, we arrive at a sum of billions. we should say that, too, for the sake of honesty. the low growth next year will be financed by the fact that we are not transferring appropriations from the 2002 budget that were not used correctly or for the purpose for which they were intended. we in the epp group would like to call on the commission to make no concessions in the area of reform of the commission. we are looking forward to the reports which have been promised to us by the commissioner responsible, mr neil kinnock, and we will examine them very carefully and, of course, we will have to consider accordingly what further action we can take from them. i think it was a great success - and the epp was a co-initiator and thankfully the colleagues took up the matter - that the question of cooperation between the council and parliament in defining foreign policy was significantly improved. i think that a suitable procedure has been found here to overcome the democratic deficit we have in the council's intergovernmental cooperation, because the national parliaments are no longer responsible, but the european parliament is not yet involved. the dialogue procedure we have agreed with the council has created a bridge to achieve greater democracy in defining europe's foreign policy objectives. i consider it a great success that we have managed to secure the aid commitments for afghanistan for 2003. but i think it is unacceptable - and we have discussed this here on several occasions - that the foreign ministers of europe are constantly coming up with new priorities, that the old priorities are suddenly no longer relevant, and that we then have the arduous task of representing everything financially. in 2003 in particular, we succeeded in bringing together new challenges and old commitments in a good compromise, and for this we would like to thank all those who contributed to this! i think that overall it is a serious budget and i would ask the commission to ensure that what the council and parliament have decided is implemented in 2003. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council presidency, the commission and the members of the european parliament have been very attentive to the situation in the middle east. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the european parliament. of course, i can't stay away from it either. i would like to say something now that perhaps the european public should take note of a little more than in recent years. the commissioner has mentioned the rate of increase in the budget for commitments. it is 0.26%. the budget does not have the growth rates - let alone the inflation rates - that were envisaged in berlin. we're way below that. in berlin, provision has already been made to create a margin to enable and facilitate enlargement. we have come a little closer to that in our present budgetary procedure: 0.26% increase. if you look at the payments - 1.9%, that doesn't seem like much at first. it is also considerably below what would be necessary to reduce the backlog of payments which still exists. nevertheless, it is 1.9% more than what many national finance ministers currently have at their disposal to draw up their budgets. but we are still with the 1.9% because they are important. the budget and its scope must be considered. we have a budget of less than 100 billion euros! this is a quarter less than the 15 countries of the european union spend on defence. for this difference of a quarter - the sum of 100 billion euros - we will achieve that on the european continent there is cooperation in the field of the environment, in the field of research and development, in the field of cohesion, that we do not leave the weak behind. the agricultural sector is fully europeanised and youth exchanges are being prepared. we are preparing for enlargement, we have a common foreign and security policy and we cooperate in the internal justice sector. i think it must be said very clearly that we spend considerably less on all these things to keep europe fit for the future and peaceful than we spend on national defence policy alone. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are not only preserving a continent of large corporations, but also allowing small and mediumsized enterprises on this european continent to take advantage of the opportunities offered by a common internal market. they have no legal department, no tax department, they need help to take advantage of this european single market with all its benefits. that's where we're helping. we are responding to the ageing society in the european union. we must do this much more in our own budget. i have already mentioned pensions on several occasions, but we also want to respond to the ageing of the european society as a whole in the future. a very large emphasis was and is on category iv. i read in a newspaper today that the european parliament would not consider the fight against aids to be important. i would like to point out that the european parliament has increased the amount to be made available to this end fourfold compared with the original proposals. so anyone who says that this is not important enough for us has no idea what he's talking about. i would also like to emphasize once again that we have made great progress in this year's budgetary procedure. i can agree with what markus ferber said. we have to close parliamentary loopholes in the control of policies which are transferred from the national to the european level, and we are opening them up. we have reached a joint declaration with the council which makes considerable progress in the field of security and defence policy and makes it clear to the citizen that there is no parliamentary scope for european policies at this european level. these are matters which must be settled in the convention, which actually need to be organised elsewhere. we've already dealt with them. mrs schreyer, you've already made it sound like a clean bill of health. we shall of course deal with the decisions taken in copenhagen. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are very positive about this, but i cannot let your apodictic 'that's settled' stand. at the end of good consultation, that will be the framework. i thank all my colleagues, especially the two rapporteurs, and the president for his patience in allowing me an extra half-minute. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. we are not satisfied with the budget for agriculture. our proposals were not accepted, although the council made some small concessions to us, but our essential demand, namely that we come to a new institutional agreement so that we can transfer funds from the first pillar that are not needed there to the second, has not been met because it is thought that this is not an easy thing to do. now we are surprised to find that in copenhagen the opposite has happened, namely that funds from the second pillar of rural development are being released with a stroke of the pen for funds to be spent in direct payments. i must say that i find this a scandal. the european parliament has drawn up a resolution expressing our opposition to direct payments, to the transfer to the new eu countries, but we believe that this will not affect the total payments but that this will be done in the form of support for rural development, the second pillar. it was not met. the decisions taken in brussels have set a financial ceiling which does not take full advantage of what berlin is able to do. the second development was that there was no financial ceiling, and we had high hopes that this would mean that, through reform, the second pillar could be extended to the european parliament, which would have a say in this and could bring this second pillar forward. but if, by a council decision, the funds which have been agreed here with such difficulty are then transferred back to a development which we do not want, then, madam commissioner, that is not what this european parliament wants. i therefore believe that this cannot be accepted, that we must deal with it in the next budgetary negotiations and that we very much expect the european convention to apply co-decision in the field of agricultural policy both in terms of the content and in terms of the so-called compulsory appropriations. we are not going to allow the council to postpone the budget as it pleases in the long term, but we want to have direct budgetary choice and decide this ourselves.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the budget is mainly devoted to agricultural and structural policy, together with enlargement and foreign policy. this is true, because the european budget was originally an agricultural budget. this is something that must be borne in mind when we look at the council's policy in general. it is not serious to burden the european budget with ever new tasks for the community without saying where the money for these tasks is to come from. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i do not necessarily see it as our task to ensure that this division of labour creates sound national budgets. in this respect, the amendments adopted by the council from the first reading of the european parliament are of course a two-pronged approach. on the one hand, i am pleased that the linear cuts in the 1a lines have been withdrawn by the council in 25% of the cases. on the other hand, we are thus allocating eur 200 million over the draft budget, although there is a margin of error of eur 2.6 billion over the estimated ceiling. this is money which is lacking as concrete income-producing aid. even the money for the second pillar, which is being called for by all sides, has been withdrawn. i am clearly in favour of the promotion and development of rural areas, provided that they give people a sense of place and that the money is not wasted on prestigious communal objects or squandered on projects that are fuelled by national ideology. in the context of the commission's letter of amendment, i welcome the fact that the commission is adopting a number of parliament's proposals at first reading and in particular not further reducing export refunds. in conclusion, i would like to stress once again that the agricultural budget is under attack on two fronts. on the one hand, the council is trying to finance ever new expenditure from the agricultural sector, and on the other hand, farmers are losing income-producing payments from the first pillar by shifting them to a second pillar, which is still undefined. i think both are unfair and i would like to make that clear here.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. foreign policy is also traditionally the business of the executive in the nation states. but still, money for certain foreign policy activities has to be approved by parliament. the budgetary law is the classic means of parliamentary control of foreign policy in a national parliament. we are therefore very pleased that this budget represents a further step towards parliamentary control of the common foreign and security policy. there is an agreement with the council which has promised to inform parliament, the foreign affairs committee and the budget committee in future before decisions are taken, particularly on joint actions, at a time when the whole action can still be influenced. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the matter. no one wants to question the right of the member states to decide autonomously on foreign policy. but if parliament is expected to provide money, it must be informed beforehand. we have seen many examples in recent years where foreign policy commitments have been made and at the end of the budgetary procedure we have been given the duty to save the money somewhere in the budget. our colleague bourlanges once put it this way: 'the reconstruction of the former yugoslavia, in the balkans, was paid for by africa, because we had to cut back there to make it possible.' the council has already taken a number of important decisions on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels.
- madam commissioner, i would ask you to clarify within the commission that pensions are really retirement provision and not savings schemes, as has now been established in the directive. secondly, i ask you to consider whether the term 'raising the retirement age' is not a wrong one. rather, programmes should be set up to keep older workers in the workforce and to re-skill older unemployed workers so that they can be re-integrated into the workforce.
- the commissioner! you call your communication 'modernising the accounting system'. i call that, to put it politely, a distortion of the facts! it's a complete mess what's happened to us in the last few weeks! in fact, you're facing the super gaw of your administration, and if you had any civil courage, you'd admit that, too. i am simply wondering why you have only now admitted this scandalous situation - i am simply saying that it seems that multiple entries have not been excluded - when the court of auditors has been pointing out repeatedly since 1994 that you apparently need a few more years, namely until 2005, to clear it, why you have dismissed an accountant who was the first to point out these errors in the spring of this year and have brought disciplinary proceedings against her! i am seriously wondering how you can sell us your grand scheme of a new budgetary system without this budgetary system being based on a functioning accounting system!
- mr president, i have to go. commissioner, i apologize if i have to leave before your answer, but i have a group of visitors and i have a habit of being on time. it's not common in europe, but i'm doing it! i have a very specific question. you said, in terms of the it system, that you wanted to do a feasibility study. now we agree that we are under time pressure on this issue as far as the modernisation of the accounting system is concerned. on reflection, i have come to the conclusion, on the basis of plausibility, that a feasibility study can only refer to option 2, namely to modernise the existing system in such a way that it also meets future requirements. my question is: then, given the time pressure we all face and the pressure to modernise the system, would it not be more sensible to buy time by not asking this question and by going straight to a complete integrated replacement of this system?
- mr president, i have to go. mrs schreyer, i congratulate you on this ambitious project and have the following questions. the new system is to be operational from 2005. what are you going to do in the meantime, since the court of auditors has been very critical of the existing accounting and bookkeeping systems since 1994? you know that parliament will certainly deal with these problems after the committee on budgetary control has dealt with them. how long will it be after 2005 before everything is really functional, when the new accounting officer - probably with the support of a committee you have mentioned - is actually supposed to ensure that everything is functional?
commission. – mr posselt, the short answer to your question is no. the longer answer is as follows. i follow very closely the developments of the humanitarian situation in chechnya and in the neighbouring republics where part of the chechen population is displaced. in the most recent press statements of 27 november and 5 december of this year, i expressed my concerns about the gravity of the humanitarian and human rights situation there, in particular the growing pressures made on internally displaced persons to leave the camps in ingushetia and return to chechnya. as you know, echo is the main donor of humanitarian aid to the region. it has supported the victims of the second chechnya conflict since its very beginning and will continue to do so. the commission, through echo, has so far allocated more than eur 90 million in humanitarian aid in order to help people survive. in 2002 alone, eur 25 million have been allocated for this crisis and an additional eur 3 million are now in the pipeline for more emergency food aid. in ingushetia, at this very critical moment, echo provides support to internally displaced persons in camps, spontaneous settlements and host families. most of the aid provided in the aki yurt camp had been funded by echo, and we will continue to be present in all other camps. in parallel, echo continues to fund a very large part of the humanitarian assistance going to chechnya proper. this is a very difficult task, as this is one of the locations in the world where working conditions for humanitarian organisations are the worst, both in terms of security and in terms of monitoring. we continue to argue with the russian authorities on all these points as i have again and again informed this parliament. the bottom line is that we are able to deliver humanitarian aid both around and inside chechnya although it is difficult, but we are able to do it and we will continue to do it.
- mr president, i have to go. just two specific requests: firstly, can you give a guarantee - which is of course never possible - that the humanitarian aid will actually reach the displaced chechens, or are you relying entirely on the russian authorities? the second question i would like to ask is that there are now camps in ingushetia, and there are mass deportations of people. do you know where these people came from?
commission. – madam president, in 1966 the community first established a comprehensive system to monitor and control the presence of residues in food of animal origin from the member states and from third countries. this system involves the setting up of a residue monitoring plan as well as a legal framework to allow for official controls and a practical infrastructure for laboratory testing. this legislation requires member states and third countries exporting to the eu to submit annually a monitoring plan for residues in products of animal origin. monitoring should be targeted at detecting illegal treatment of animals and at controlling compliance with the maximum residue limits for veterinary medicinal products, the maximum levels for pesticides and the maximum levels set in relevant legislation covering environmental contaminants. the residue plans are subject to an extensive evaluation procedure. only those third countries that have submitted satisfactory residue monitoring plans are allowed to export to the european union and be included in the appropriate list. this list is kept under constant review in order to take into account the results of the evaluation of the annual updates of residue monitoring plans. however, this approach must be complemented by measures on the ground. first, import controls must be carried out by the member states at the external borders of the union. secondly, the food and veterinary office verifies how the residue plans are implemented in the member states and third countries. over the last year, we have been particularly concerned about discoveries of banned veterinary medicinal products – namely chloramphenicol and nitrofurans – in food of animal origin. these substances are banned for use in food-producing animals in the european union because it has not been possible to set a safe level of residues due to their toxic effects on human beings. the commission has not hesitated to take measures whenever this problem has arisen. for example, imports from china of all products derived from farmed animals, including aquaculture, have been banned on the basis of the conclusions of an fvo mission, underpinned by discoveries of contaminated food. in other cases, it has not been necessary to ban imports, as the third countries concerned have initiated extensive action plans to resolve the problems – in particular the testing of all consignments exported to the european union and suspension of the offending establishments. these measures taken in third countries are complemented by strict, mandatory import controls to provide sufficient guarantees. this is the case for both thailand and brazil. the commission will ensure the maintenance of the necessary level of scrutiny on imported products to ensure a consistent approach to consumer safety. the rapid alert system for food and feed is the tool to disseminate all relevant information between member states and the commission, as well as to third countries. let me say that it is not just in relation to third country imports that the commission has identified problems of residues in food. indeed, residues monitoring plans carried out by member states also enabled the identification of contamination cases in food produced in the european union. some concerns have been raised – and the issue has been raised and the question sent to the commission by parliament – about the cancellation of fvo inspection missions to the third countries from which contaminated products have been identified. perhaps i should explain the background to this. indeed the commission has postponed a number of planned missions in respect of residues. these include missions to brazil and thailand. it is considered that such missions would be a waste of valuable resources at this moment as 100% testing is in place for poultrymeat from brazil and thailand and for shrimps from thailand. consignments which test positive are destroyed. these measures are necessary because there are serious failings in residue controls in the countries concerned. it is not necessary to send a mission team to establish what is already known. in the case of china there is already a comprehensive ban in place on exports to the european union on a range of products and increased testing is in place for other products. it is premature to carry out a mission now, as the commission is not convinced that the necessary preparatory measures have been put in place. instead it is considered best to await concrete evidence of progress in the form of regulatory controls, such as legislation and so on. however, in the coming months, fvo missions could be deemed necessary to assess the implementation of actions and the changes introduced by the third countries concerned in the area of residue monitoring. the fvo programme of inspection for 2003 mentions such missions. that is the position in regard to the issues that have been raised in the questions. i am happy to outline that for parliament.
- madam president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i think this is a very broad and difficult subject. i have listened very carefully to your comments and now i come to a subject which i would have liked to have put to you in writing beforehand. but i think if we try together, i might be able to get an answer from you. nitrofuran - that's a broad term. a very important product under this umbrella term is nifursol. nifursol is the last histomonostatic agent still authorised in the eu, which we use as an additive in poultry manure to prevent blackhead disease. i admit that i'm not a scientist. however, it is my understanding from the experts that this product has been definitively banned by regulation no 2377/90. the scientific committee on animal nutrition (scan) was mandated by the commission to review the safety of nifursol. the commission has not yet made a final assessment of this. i have now, because i have the report on additives in feedingstuffs, heard the alarm bells ringing because many people who are concerned with the subject fear that there will be a need for therapy in a few months' time. as a logical consequence of the ban on nitrofurans in regulation no 2377/90, regulation no 1756/2002 was adopted on 23 september 2002 which provides for a ban on nifursol as from 31 march 2003. the ban, which will come into force on 31 march, will create a therapeutic emergency in the fight against blackhead disease, for example in turkeys. there is no legal alternative available in the eu, either as a feed additive or as a veterinary medicinal product. the consequences of the ban are felt by the masters and the consumers. the consequences are: a shortage of therapies, the painful exhaustion of large livestock populations, the endangerment of farms raising turkeys, the development of an uncontrolled black market, an increase in imports of poultry from third countries, where many substances banned in the eu are used very uncontrolled. we have just had to find again last week in cheap meat imported from third countries antibiotics from the group of nitrofurans, which are banned in the eu. consequently, the manufacturers of compound feed must now also stop using nifursol from at least january 2003 in order to have no such feed in the silos by the beginning of march. the question i have to ask you tonight, although i do not know whether you can answer it yet, is: what are the possible solutions? i find it difficult to explain why the commission, on the one hand, in the report i have, approves the use of histomonostatics - we worked very hard on the commission proposal - but, on the other hand, in another regulation, prohibits the only product available on this market. so i have a few questions: what do we tell the masters? what are they supposed to do? what treatment options are available? secondly, is the commission aware that european production is continuing to decline, that the european union is disappearing from the market and that we are increasingly exposed to imports of turkey meat from third countries, where we still do not know what quality standards these imports have?
- madam president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. there are two areas of concern. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the question is: who produces these substances and how can they enter the european union? now you said that it is heavily controlled, but that there is no need to go abroad - if i understood correctly - because we are going to find bad conditions there anyway. so we don't have to go. i have heard that the standing committee meeting today was supposed to discuss the withdrawal of thailand from the list of countries requiring special consideration. what is the basis for this decision? i also heard that you have announced inspection trips to these countries next year. what makes you think that these trips would be worthwhile? i think that if these countries do not meet our standards, they should be put on the list and then they should not be allowed to supply until they can be sure that they are supplying products to the european union that meet our standards. there is still one problem: what happens to these shrimps, to this chicken or turkey meat that is imported into the union and does not meet our requirements? is it being sent back? where's the stuff? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we've seen this in the shrimp from china, which then ended up somewhere in the feed and then went back through that pathway into the food chain. so what i would like is for you to put forward a clear concept and for us, who have to justify ourselves as parliamentarians - including the commission - to be able to say on your side that the commission, the european union, is sufficiently strict in this respect. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to take action in this area. however, doubts have recently been raised. i hope you can clear that up in your answer.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, it is a difficult text. many people have asked me over the last year and a half: "why are you doing this, you electronic waste in europe? what's the point? the point is simply that we in the european union decided a few years ago that we wanted to pursue sustainable economic, environmental and social policies. six million tons of electronic waste every year contains a huge amount of valuable components that we want to reuse in the future. that is why we have this directive. i would like to thank very much my colleagues on the conciliation committee, the commissioner and the members of the council who have, i think, made a small success story of this electronic scrap report. we agreed on some difficult points afterwards. we have seen that from 2005 onwards consumers will be encouraged more or less by their member states - although i would have preferred to see this as a compulsion - not to throw their appliances in the trash in the future but to collect them separately. we have set binding targets. unfortunately, europe always shines by using an infinite number of undefined legal terms. today, in this directive, we have not set very high barriers, but we have defined and binding barriers. i think that's a good success. we have, unfortunately, been a little vague about how we will handle such materials in the future, but we have used the best available technology. i am only too well aware that in my country the term 'best available technology' is defined 16 different times, since we have 16 federal states. there are still loopholes, but at least we have made good progress in terms of recycling rates. i believe that the quotas for industry are achievable, so that no one can really say that we have overreached them. in 2005, citizens will be able to return their products to a collection point free of charge, unless the member state goes further. this can then be decided individually in the member states. a great success, i think, is that we have arrived at the 'individual cost allocation'. this is a step forward because we want to have a control system and those who build a computer today that is recyclable - like this one, for example - should be rewarded and those who want to continue to produce a boring and old-fashioned device in the future should be asked to pay for it because of the high cost of disposal. there were indeed countries which did not want this approach. i am glad that we have been able to persuade these colleagues, with the help of the other colleagues in the other groups, to vote in favour after working day and night. this individual responsibility is the first step towards a truly sustainable environmental policy, in line with the packaging regulation and the high-end car regulation, and i can only strongly support this in conjunction with economic policy. we may have succeeded in excluding the pedestrians that are always present in such a system. there are large companies that order 100,000 refrigerators in the pacific just before christmas and they don't put a logo on them, so that the small businessman or the citizen has to pay for them afterwards. we have found a system whereby compulsory labelling must take place so that the costs are allocated and that funds are then available for recycling, however the member states do it - and we very much want to put this in subsidiary hands. but the guarantee that this happens is important, and this concern has been received. the fact that the old equipment must be managed by the companies currently on the market, but also paid for - in this case collectively - is not in question, because there is no other system for this. but we have left the possibility open to the member states to show the financing, so that a so-called visible fee - whatever you want to call it - is possible for the old stock. i think we have made a good step here too. i would have liked it if we had been more aggressive in the debate on cars and electronic waste and had debated more about how we can encourage a greater flow of secondary raw materials in the future. unfortunately, we still have the peculiarity that we like to reuse primary material and always treat secondary material with certain long teeth. i would go so far as to say that such secondary raw materials should be given a certain vat preference. that is not necessarily the classic position of my group. but i think this would be a motivating tool to really bring sustainability here. that is the point, ladies and gentlemen. we want to reuse raw materials in the future. and by motivating companies to build the devices so that they can be reused, we've found a market-based way -- and that's an important reason for me, i don't need to tell anyone -- to get the stakeholders here at the table. i was very pleased, by the way, that the ngos fought with us on this issue, and that the companies and the ngos adopted a joint resolution on our efforts - in a positive way. i have not seen anything like this in the 13 and a half years i have been in this house! i would also like to take this opportunity to thank those colleagues who have stuck with us in difficult times. there are plenty of people who, when the going gets tough, just disappear into the ditch. there were colleagues who always remained in the council whenever pressure was brought to bear, and that is what ultimately helped us - and you have done an excellent job in that - to achieve this success. the directive is essentially two-fold. the second part is how we will deal with dangerous products in the future, namely cadmium, lead and hexavalent chromium. in this, i think we have made a small step forward along the way. ultimately, it's about collecting and concentrating, for example, lead that's wandering around in lamps, in little radios, in little appliances that we all know. ten tons of lead in a pile is perfectly harmless. but as wandering little particles, they're a problem. the japanese, for example, have shown us very hopeful approaches, and we are now also using motivating elements to make it clear to the companies that we want to enter permanently into a society where these highly dangerous substances are increasingly a thing of the past. madam president, commissioner, allow me to address a personal word to my personal staff, who have been working very actively here, hours and nights. i would like to thank my colleagues once again, you, madam commissioner, and your staff, who have been of excellent help whenever we have had major question marks. i was proud of this house and would be glad if it could be taken further in the future with the next directives.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. i too would like to thank mr florenz for this report. i would like to thank him in particular for taking a very different position on the altauto directive. i think it's a great thing to change your position to make it clear that producer responsibility is possible. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i therefore consider this a very great success not only for the environment but also for consumer protection. i think it is also essential that in future the consumer can be more confident that the prices are true to the environment and that the consumer does not have to buy new hardware with every new software program. we are also giving industry incentives to pursue not only environmentally friendly but also consumer-friendly policies. i think it is essential that we have managed to regulate this individual cost allocation and that we have also been able to avoid the council's asserting itself and not relieving smes of their responsibilities. i would also ask the commission to monitor and enforce this individual cost allocation in future. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented.
president. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have not spoken in this chamber since the enlargement debate on 19 november. it was a great and positive experience. i left here with a strong and clear mandate to conclude the enlargement negotiations. i am pleased to be here today with an equally clear result. after long and difficult negotiations, the presidency concluded negotiations with the 10 new member states at the copenhagen summit. it is a common dream that is being fulfilled, a common goal that has been achieved. the european parliament, the commission and the presidency have fought together for enlargement. it was therefore a particular pleasure for me that the president of the european parliament took part in the closing ceremony, where we welcomed the new members to our circle on friday evening. the last six months of enlargement negotiations have been like a long distance race with a number of difficult obstacles to overcome along the way. parliament, the commission and the presidency have stood the test of time together and in copenhagen we have come to an agreement. side by side, hand in hand. i want to thank you for your efforts, thank you for your unwavering support, thank you for your support along the way. the decisions taken in copenhagen closed one of the darkest and bloodiest chapters in european history. we have brought an end to a century of war and conflict. we said goodbye to the yalta conference and the europe of the cold war once and for all. at the same time, we opened the door to a new era in european history, one of freedom, peace, growth and prosperity. the copenhagen summit marked a high point in the history of european cooperation. a triumph for freedom and democracy and a gateway to a better future for all our people. the enlargement of the eu was the danish presidency's main priority - but the danish presidency has produced a number of other significant achievements. we have been a presidency that has prioritised, but not de-prioritised. our results show that. before i turn to the copenhagen summit, i would like to briefly describe a number of other tasks which the european union has accomplished in the last six months. we have effectively continued the fight against international terrorism and stepped up efforts to combat illegal immigration. in the area of asylum, we have reached agreement on the so-called dublin ii regulation, a regulation which establishes common rules for which country is responsible for examining an asylum application. the eu's energy policy is based on the principle of the free movement of goods, services and capital. we have achieved a breakthrough in the eu's transport policy. the rules on the single european sky provide the basis for fewer cancellations and shorter flight times for the benefit of passengers, the environment and airlines. we have responded together quickly and effectively to unexpected disasters. first, there were the floods in central europe. the eu showed solidarity and agreed to set up a solidarity fund of eur 1 billion to be used in the event of natural disasters. most recently, we have responded to the tragic sinking of the oil tanker prestige. the eu acted at short notice, adopting rules on, among other things, the rapid phase-out of single-hull oil tankers and increased controls in ports of call. the co2 trading system has been agreed. progress has been made in food safety, including common rules on the labelling of food containing genetically modified organisms. a solution acceptable to all parties was found to the question of transit to and from kaliningrad. finally, i would like to emphasize the positive and effective cooperation with parliament, particularly in the areas of codecision and the budgetary procedure. for the first time in many years, we were able to reach agreement on large parts of the budget at first reading. i should like to take this opportunity to thank you for the good and positive spirit of cooperation between the european parliament, the commission and the presidency. together, we have shown over the last six months that the eu can deliver, that we can, despite national, institutional and political differences, achieve results together, create a better and safer everyday life for our citizens, create better conditions of competition for our businesses and ensure a greater influence for europe in the world. after that, i shall return to the copenhagen summit. we concluded the enlargement negotiations with 10 new member states: cyprus, estonia, latvia, lithuania, malta, poland, slovakia, slovenia, the czech republic and hungary. the negotiations were intense and difficult to the end. it cannot be otherwise, it ensures that we have reached the right balance between the aspirations of the candidate countries and the possibilities of the present member states. the tough negotiations on very concrete issues such as milk quotas and money transfers are, after all, the ultimate expression of the fact that the eu is not just a chatterbox, a chatterbox that adopts empty declarations. no, the eu is an effective negotiating forum where we do business and make policy for the benefit of all parties. the 10 new countries will be able to join as from 1 may 2004. before that, both the new and the current member states must have completed their national ratification procedures. the first stage of this process - which in many countries will involve referendums - is the completion of the accession treaty. it is then submitted first to the commission, then to parliament and finally to the council for approval, with a view to the treaty being signed in athens on 16 april 2003. i should like to ask all three institutions to do their utmost to respect this timetable. the conclusions of the copenhagen summit also address the question of the participation of the new member states in the eu institutions. we are stating that the 10 acceding states will be able to participate in the 2004 european parliament elections as members. the treaty of accession will provide that commissioners from the new member states will join the present commission from the date of accession on 1 may 2004. following the european council's nomination of a new president of the commission, the newly elected european parliament can approve a new commission, which will take office on 1 november 2004. in this way a reasonable framework has been set up for this important question. here too i must call for us to find flexible solutions in cooperation between the institutions to ensure the best conditions for our new member states. the conclusions for bulgaria and romania are clear: the enlargement process continues. and we confirm that the aim is to welcome both countries as members in 2007. the question of turkey became a central issue in copenhagen. we came up with a balanced and realistic answer. we recognise the important steps turkey has taken towards meeting the copenhagen criteria. we call on turkey to press ahead vigorously with its reform process and we commit to increased eu support for turkey in these efforts. if the european council in december 2004, on the basis of a report and a recommendation from the commission, decides that turkey meets the copenhagen political criteria, the eu will open accession negotiations with turkey as soon as possible. this is a strong and positive signal to turkey, but i would like to stress that it is still an indispensable requirement that turkey fulfils the political criteria before accession negotiations can be opened. that's the way it's got to be. turkey must be treated on an equal footing with all other candidate countries. then there is cyprus. the inclusion of cyprus as a divided island is accompanied by a realistic prospect of the parties reaching a common solution to the cyprus problem by 28 february 2003 on the basis of the proposal of the un secretary-general. i would urge the parties to the conflict to seize this unique opportunity to resolve this unfortunate conflict. we all stand to gain by a solution now, and no one will gain as much as the people of cyprus. in copenhagen we sent a clear message to the new neighbours of the enlarged union, to the countries of the western balkans, to russia, ukraine, moldova and belarus, and to the countries south of the mediterranean. enlargement will not lead to the eu closing in on itself - on the contrary, the eu will strengthen its relations with its new neighbours. this will be done both within and by building on existing cooperation arrangements. at the copenhagen summit we also agreed on the framework for the future agreement between nato and the eu on the esdp. in conclusion, i should like to mention that the european council also met with the president of the european convention, mr valéry giscard d'estaing. he reported on the work of the convention and the european council agreed that the convention should present the results of its work before the june 2003 summit. it was agreed that the new member states should participate fully in the intergovernmental conference. bulgaria and romania shall participate as observers. with enlargement in hand, the work of the convention is now the decisive task of european policy. we have enlarged the eu, now we must ensure that the future eu of more than 25 member states can also function effectively. we must simplify decision-making procedures and promote the values of the union. we need to define better the division of labour between the eu and the member states, we need to extend the use of qualified majority voting and co-decision, and we need to ensure that cooperation is open and under democratic control. the danish presidency is now coming to an end. we pass the baton of the presidency to greece with good wishes and thanks for the good cooperation of the troika. finally, i would like to turn again directly to the members of this parliament, and in particular to its president, pat cox. the president's meeting with the european council in copenhagen was another constructive confirmation of the close relationship between parliament and the council. the danish presidency has attached great importance to meeting the european parliament with an outstretched hand and a willingness to cooperate constructively. i am pleased to note that parliament has met us in the same positive spirit. we have had our differences, but our cooperation has been marked by a willingness to compromise, to progress and to achieve results. i have experienced this in this house, at our interinstitutional summits and at my meetings with the conference of presidents of parliament. the same picture is confirmed by the ministers of the danish government. i would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone for this excellent cooperation. first and lastly, however, i would like to thank parliament for its unreserved support for the danish presidency's main task of completing the negotiations with the 10 new member states. the decision in copenhagen to enlarge the european union marks the reunification of the peoples and states of europe, the end of the unfortunate division of our continent and the beginning of a new era in european history. the copenhagen summit also marks the beginning of a new era for the eu. in copenhagen, the european union solved the biggest challenge in its history. the eu stands after the copenhagen summit as the unifying framework for the europe of the future, a cooperation based on common values: freedom and market economy, community and social responsibility, democracy and human rights. effective cooperation which respects the national characteristics of our peoples and our states. the seed sown by the fathers of the union in the war-torn soil of europe almost 50 years ago has taken root. with the enlargement of the european union, their dream and vision have become a reality. our new europe is born. thank you, mr president. (applause from the centre)
president of the commission. mr president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, today is our last meeting of 2002. a year that began with the introduction of the euro and ended with another extraordinary success. in these twelve months we have often - too often, some say - used the superlative to describe the milestones of this year in europe. i cannot help using another to describe the copenhagen european council, which is a cornerstone of the european construction. when i took up the post of president of the commission, i said that enlargement would be our highest priority: we kept our promise. it may be thought - and some people think - that the conclusion of the copenhagen negotiations was a formality. nothing could be more wrong: the result was achieved thanks to the courage and political will of everyone. and i would like to stress, above all, the great work done by the danish presidency. the presidency has shown great calm and has maintained a consistent line in the difficult situation by conducting the negotiations at various levels. mr. prime minister, it was a great personal success for you! this is also and at the same time the fruit of our work. in these three years, the commission has put together 12 teams of formidable negotiators who have agreed 31 chapters with each candidate country, using a completely new methodology. for three years, 350 commission officials and more than 700 people from our delegations have patiently woven the silent fabric. i would like to express my gratitude to günter verheugen, who has proved to be a smart and passionate negotiator; i also thank eneko landaburu and the whole directorate-general for enlargement for their dedication and for the excellent work they have done. it is a unique privilege to be president of the european commission on these occasions, and i am particularly proud to leave today because the institution has done so much to realise the dream of building a single europe. while ten countries have crossed the finish line, others are still in the race. we have drawn up a detailed roadmap for romania and bulgaria to join the union in 2007; we have set a date for turkey in december 2004 to see whether it meets the criteria for opening negotiations. i am pleased that the first joint act of the 25-member union is a statement in support of the 'continuous, inclusive and irreversible nature' of the enlargement process. these words, mr president, echo the vision and generosity that marked the origins of our union. the declaration welcomes the commission's proposal to increase by 20% the contributions to help romania and bulgaria prepare for accession, and i urge these countries to seize the opportunity and accelerate the pace even further. turkey will also receive a strengthened package to prepare for the candidacy, which, i repeat, will be assessed solely on the merits and with the same criteria as those applied to all other candidates. the date we have agreed gives turkey time to carry out the reforms necessary to meet the copenhagen criteria in law and in fact. the commission's reports and recommendations will continue to be completely objective and impartial. the european council last week focused on almost all the objectives: i say 'almost' because we have achieved a great deal on cyprus. despite the intensive efforts of the negotiators and the un secretary-general, we have not reached a solution in copenhagen which we consider to be final. however, both sides have stated their willingness to continue negotiations and have set themselves the objective of reaching an agreement by 28 february. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is growing, but so are its responsibilities. we invite new members to join us in our area of peace, prosperity and stability. however, we cannot promote these values by stopping at the union's borders. the idea of a single europe should not be the pretext for creating new barriers but for including the whole continent in the peace plan. each enlargement creates new neighbours for whom the european union is a pole of attraction and some of whom have the ambition to become candidates themselves. the western balkan countries, in my view, belong by definition to the european union and the copenhagen council reiterated this perspective. the stabilization and association process is a powerful tool and we must use it dynamically. the commission therefore intends to work closely with the greek presidency in preparation for the thessaloniki summit, where i am sure we will be able to give a detailed and concrete response to the letter which the five western balkan presidents sent us on the eve of the copenhagen council. we must now think carefully - and this is our great task, i repeat to the last - about what the union's final frontiers are and will be, and we europeans must do this, listening to everyone's suggestions but rejecting any outside interference. (applause) i would like to thank the debate on europe's borders is the debate on our identity. it must be opened up in this parliament and in national parliaments, and it must involve all european citizens in a profound way. to seek the roots of our identity is not to create division. european integration must also offer prospects and benefits to our neighbours, even if they remain close. we must build a dense network of relations based on common political and economic values with our neighbours, from russia to the mediterranean. this is the new strategic objective of my commission. this neighbourhood policy will have to give our neighbours many of the benefits of union membership without formally joining it for the foreseeable future. the european economic area can serve as a model, but it must be enriched by a series of measures of political cooperation. our relations will have to be organized on the basis of a programme of sharing everything except the institutions. our neighbourhood policy must be attractive, open up new prospects and bring mutual benefits. it must motivate our partners to work more closely with the union and it must be dynamic and based on a structured and gradual approach. after the conclusion of the accession negotiations, honourable members, the unification of europe must become a concrete, everyday reality. the final draft of the accession treaty can now finally be drawn up, which must be - as prime minister rasmussen said - ratified and signed in athens next april. but the most important task in the coming months will be to inform and reassure our citizens, and i am talking about the citizens of both the member states and the countries which are about to join. the commission is organising a major information campaign in which you, ladies and gentlemen, will play a major role. until a few years ago, many candidate countries were ruled by dictatorships. many of their citizens fear that by joining another big bloc, they may jeopardize their newfound freedom and autonomy. in the current member states, there is concern about the costs and consequences of the entry of much poorer countries. for the most part, these are unfounded fears because, as günter verheugen said, this is the best prepared enlargement in our history. we all know that the cost of enlargement is very small compared with the cost of non-enlargement. we must therefore spread these simple truths throughout europe and we must work together to make them known. the enlargement process has been driven forward by extraordinary determination, political courage and vision. we must convince europeans that, united, we all win, and i am not just thinking of the material benefits of shared prosperity and sustainable development in the world's largest market; i think in political terms too: we all win because we are citizens of a democratic and responsible union. the credibility of an enlarged europe, as i have already said, will depend above all on the credibility of its institutions and its credibility as an active player on the international scene. i am therefore pleased to see that an agreement was reached at the summit between the european union and nato which will enable us to conduct peacekeeping operations in the balkans as early as next year. this is an additional responsibility which we must and will assume. however, in the coming year the moment of truth will be institutional reform. we will not be able to keep the promises we are making to our citizens unless we radically renew the structure of the union. respect and admiration of citizens will not materialize unless we build a more cohesive and united union and strengthen its decision-making. we must therefore all work together with president giscard for the success of the convention. our increased unity and determination must be reflected in our international action. our increased responsibilities will not leave room, as in the past, for hesitation and alignment. that is why the task of the convention and all those who contribute to its work is no less important than the accession negotiations, because without a success of the convention we will have created a europe that is great but incapable of acting. mr president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is therefore reason for optimism. the copenhagen days and the generosity shown in copenhagen - where selfishness and disunity were thought of - were replaced by a sense of unity in countries for which enlargement meant something different, was a different reality, was felt in a different way, but which all felt the magnitude of what had happened - show that if we can overcome the challenges ahead, we can really use the combination of vision and pragmatism that has made the european union a unique model for political integration in the world. in conclusion, mr president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you and offer my warmest wishes for the coming holidays. i wish you all a well-deserved rest in peace and joy with all your loved ones. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i'm sure you'll forgive me if i say that i stand before you today with great relief. i am not only happy because i have a little less work ahead of me, but above all because i am happy to see that the joint work of the european institutions and 25 countries in europe has produced the success we had hoped for. of course it wasn't. i think that, although we first indicated in 1999 that it might be possible to conclude the negotiations by the end of 2002, it is a small miracle that we have succeeded in doing so. but miracles, as you all know, don't just happen. it requires strong political will, great determination and also great fortune. i would therefore like to say very clearly once again that i have been fortunate and privileged to work with the danish presidency in this final phase, with a leader of the government like anders fogh rasmussen, who has gone about his work with a determination and a determination that is truly admirable. but i would also like to point out that enlargement is not the work of a few people. on the contrary - and this is the most important thing for me - it shows that the community method is capable of completing even such a complex and difficult task as negotiations on accession to the european union with ten countries accurately, precisely and within a timetable. it is not that the community method does not work when it comes to major and important international issues. (applause from the centre) i think everyone in this house knows that the european parliament has played an important and driving role in this process, for which i am very grateful. i would also like to say that the president of the european parliament, pat cox, has been at the forefront of a movement which has made a deep impression in the candidate countries. i believe that the way in which president cox has represented the european parliament in central and eastern europe has done a great deal to strengthen and build confidence in the european institutions. (applause from the centre) we have now reached a point which i would like to describe in the words of one of the greatest europeans of our time, who is also important for the success of this enlargement process. it was pope john paul ii who once said: 'it is about europe finally being able to breathe with both lungs'. and that's where we are now. (applause from the centre) in copenhagen we were able to reap what millions of people in central and eastern europe had sown when they struggled for democracy and freedom. we must never forget that the people of the baltic states never - never - chose to join the soviet union. the people in poland, hungary, the czech republic and slovakia never decided that they wanted communist regimes. on the contrary, they built a democracy and a human rights movement under the most difficult circumstances. we do not have to worry about europeans coming to us who do not understand anything about democracy and human rights. on the contrary, we will see the european spirit, based on democracy, justice and human rights, strengthened by those who fought for democracy and human rights. (applause from the centre) it is not only the internal situation that will be affected by this enlargement. the european union must be able to play a more active role in the world. i share the concern of those who say that we may not yet be sufficiently prepared to assume this important and major international role. russia, ukraine, the caucasus states, the middle east - they are moving closer to us. the neighborhood is getting even denser and more immediate. president prodi has spoken about how we have to do this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the preparations for accession will continue with energy and vigour in the coming year. the commission will look very closely at whether all commitments are being met and, as promised, will take a final assessment of the state of preparations six months before the planned date of accession. i believe we have succeeded in finding reliable regulations, in mitigating hardship and in limiting risks. the commission, together with the presidency, will submit the draft treaty of accession to the european parliament next year. we need a positive vote by the european parliament for each individual country and for the treaty as a whole. it is the european parliament which must first decide whether this path, which was set out in copenhagen, can be completed. the european parliament alone has the privilege of deciding on each individual accession treaty. no national parliament can do that. they will, so to speak, set the standard for what will have to be done in 25 national parliaments in 2003. 25 countries will join the union in 2004. two, namely bulgaria and romania, can certainly count on even more intensive support in their efforts to achieve eu membership in 2007, which is now our common goal. turkey has a clear chance of entering the negotiations. it is the same opportunity that all the other candidate countries have had and have made the most of. i would like to emphasize what president rasmussen said: the order is clear and cannot be changed under any circumstances. the political conditions must first be clearly and fully met, and then the decision can be taken to open negotiations. (applause from the centre) the commission will not shirk its responsibility for the report and the recommendation. let me be clear: in the last few years we have developed standards, procedures and methods for these reports. we will work with the same standards, the same procedures and the same methods. the most important thing is that the recommendation that has to be made will be based on the findings of the report. it won't be the other way around. it will not be that we have a political objective and we know what recommendation we want to make and then the report has to be drawn up accordingly. the report will be fair, objective and neutral. this is an opportunity for turkey, and i also believe that turkey has the capacity to meet these conditions. it must now work with all its energy to complete reforms and put them into practice. it is not enough for us to see the prohibition of torture in a law written on paper. we want to make sure that no one is tortured to death in any turkish prison or police station. (applause from the centre) ladies and gentlemen, we have often spoken in this house about the need for a broad public debate. it is now all the more necessary to ensure the success of ratification. let us enter this debate with a cool head, with sober arguments, but also with the enthusiasm for the europe that is now being conceived. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president of the european council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! i would like to express my full support, appreciation and deep thanks to the danish presidency for a truly excellent presidency. i would also like to personally thank the president of the european council, mr rasmussen, but also the minister for europe, our former colleague, mr bertel haarder, the deputy prime minister, mr ben bendtsen, who has done a great deal for the energy market, and of course foreign minister per stig møller. i would also like to mention - because it will not be visible - that my colleague in the folketing, knud kirkegaard, in close cooperation with christian rovsing and myself, held a conference of group leaders with the national group leaders in brussels, where we also prepared these questions from copenhagen. it is important that we establish a network of contacts with the national parliaments, and i would like to thank the danish members of parliament in particular for this. ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the danish people, represented by their government, can be proud of what they have done for europe in the last six months. i wish the danish people the same determination to join the single european currency, and i wish you every success in that, mr prime minister rasmussen. (applause from the centre) your presidency - and i say this more in my own name - is also proof that not very large countries - and i would like to say specifically in the case of denmark, because of the great achievement of this presidency, not a small country - can also achieve great things. but we must think very carefully now, when it comes to what we might put in place of a six-month presidency in the convention, that there must already be very good arguments for a change, because your presidency - like others - is proof that a country, when it has the presidency, brings not only ambition but also commitment to europe. (applause from the centre) if we then have a secretary-general of the council who is no longer also high representative - and i want to express my appreciation for mr solana, this is not a criticism of mr solana - but who is also a visible secretary-general, then i would recommend to our colleagues in the convention that they think very hard about these questions too. mr president of the european council, you spoke of the fulfilment of a dream. we can only agree with that. it is a dream come true, but this great historic decision in copenhagen has also made it clear that the countries joining the european union have already almost reached the european union's normalcy. if we consider this - we encouraged you to be flexible when it was still a question of finances - the poles and the others are almost at the same level of discussion as we are accustomed to from the european union today. a major european newspaper has written about a terrible, nice european family, and that is europe. we look forward to the day when the treaties are signed, when we will have observers in the european parliament, and above all - as our group proposed and thankfully won - when the 2004 european elections will be the guiding framework for the whole enlargement process, and that is what will happen now. i would also like to thank the commission, mr prodi and mr verheugen. what the commission is doing is not spectacular, but it is an effort every day. the success of copenhagen, with your great commitment, was also possible because for many years the commission and we as parliament have supported this process, and that is why we are passionately in favour of the community method being at the heart of the work in the convention, so that the new europe follows not only its geographical extension but also the core of the right method. a word on turkey: we would very much welcome it if turkey were able to meet the political criteria by autumn 2004. it would be a great success for turkey and a great success for europe, but we say with equal determination and determination: there must be no political opportunity when it comes to whether turkey meets the political criteria, but here it is about the law. we will insist - if we have any responsibility after the european elections - that the commission - and i have no doubt about this, because this is the great challenge of the present commission, represented by its president and by commissioner verheugen - also strictly ensures that it is not political expediency that is the basis of an assessment, but really the law and the criteria, and we will accompany it along this road. i also say quite openly to our american friends - and we, as the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and the european democrats, have no need for solidarity - that we are always on the side of the united states of america in a reasonable way, but we are of course still thinking about it ourselves. but that is why we say: we will not be open to pressure from the united states - or from anyone else - on this issue, when it comes to the fact that law is the basis of our european community of values. (applause from the centre) let me make one final remark, mr president of the european council, and this is not a limitation on your work. we would have liked to have had a reference to chechnya in the copenhagen conclusions. you spoke of human rights, and i think it is our real duty and responsibility not only to look after ourselves but also to defend human rights in the geographical context of the european union and in the world, and i ask you not to hide from anyone but to respect human rights. we have a common task here for the future. i would like to congratulate you on your trip to copenhagen. you can be proud of what you have accomplished, and we were happy to be your companions! (applause from the centre)
- madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, madam commissioner! the enlargement we are about to see is being discussed in the population. it is discussed in various aspects. one of the aspects is the cost of the whole thing. can the benefits of enlargement really be expressed in euros and cents? i certainly did not! this enlargement brings much more than can be conveyed and represented in monetary terms. the whole process of european unification, of cooperation between the peoples of europe, goes far beyond that. the public has an idea of how much this costs that is unrelated. let me give you an example. for the european union as a whole, we spend about 100 billion a year on our work in the fields of research funding, economic welfare, solidarity with others, youth, environmental protection, transport, the common foreign and security policy, and domestic and judicial policy. the european union spent 125 billion on defence in 2001 and will spend 133 billion this year. so what is better - to continue to spend money on defence or to promote peaceful development, which is the opportunity here for the european continent? financial matters are not matters of romance. we cannot just approach this with a beautiful image of a beautiful future, but we must look at the realities and have an open discussion with the people who know that this is of course a challenge that will require something from all of us. but it was a good sign that in copenhagen, under these difficult conditions, where money was also being negotiated, it became clear that you, as members of the council, could at least agree on a certain concept. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we will engage in constructive, positive dialogue to settle the issues. the first assessment of the copenhagen financial decisions can be made positively. they have taken on board much of what we have suggested as a parliament. the financial package remains within a framework which can be represented to the outside world without any fancy words. but there are, of course, a few things in there that we need to talk about. there's an ominous x section -- that sounds like the x-files, like some ominous science fiction stuff. we need to talk about what's really wanted here. we also need to talk about where we are going after 2007. the commission has also taken decisions which go far beyond the financial perspective for the next two years. we need to talk about this. this parliament is part of the budgetary authority. we shall enter into a corresponding discussion with you. in conclusion, however, i would like to say, also as a budget specialist, who is used to paying close attention to how and where money is spent: we will be very positive about this whole enlargement. we shall also be looking closely at the budgetary aspect. we will look at what can be done for our present members, what can be done for the candidate countries. the important thing is that this european continent is growing together on a solid foundation, and a solid foundation is also a solid financial envelope, which we will agree on.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. i think i too have to say something here, because i have rarely seen a council presidency that has been so focused on priorities and has been so successful in achieving them. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank the commission, and in particular commissioner verheugen, for the excellent cooperation which has been established in recent years and which has also enabled us to contribute to the result. however, we believe that we should welcome the new partners in a particularly beautiful way, and i believe that there is no better way to do this than on the acropolis, to celebrate the unity of europe on the acropolis. we should also make critical remarks at this hour. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think it is also important that the monitoring process that has been decided upon is carried out with all the rigor and clarity that we need so that we do not have any problems at the end of the day. this is in the common interest of the european union, to ensure that it can also act with 25 countries. it goes without saying that we should now make a special effort to carry out the institutional process in the context of the convention's constitutional debate, and i believe that the candidate countries should be involved in the next intergovernmental conference as much as possible, in accordance with the laeken formula. but we are also having a discussion which is now going on, and which concerns turkey and other countries. mr prodi, commission president, i am very grateful to you for raising the question of the wider europe, that we must offer new options besides full membership, something like a european economic area 2, and that we must also have the right, as the european union, to represent our interests in terms of funding, in terms of the binding force of the institution of the legal order, to discuss in this way future memberships or other types of partnership. but i am particularly pleased that the community method has been adopted for turkey. there is no discrimination in one direction or another, but a progress report from the commission, discussions in parliament and the council, whether the results are sufficient to start negotiations. i think it is a real step forward that this has been clarified and misunderstandings have been avoided. but i would also like to point out that we must clearly see the binding force of the european union so that the union can continue to develop in the future, and when i see tony blair saying that turkey is going into the islamic sphere and that we should also think about north africa's membership of the european union - this statement was in the media yesterday - then we should clearly say that behind it there is also a concept to destroy the european union. we cannot be party to this, but we must respect the lines. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! i would like to join those who wish to congratulate the presidency of the council on its success. i think that what was achieved in copenhagen will set a precedent far beyond today and will be of great importance in the work of european unification in the 21st century. but i also want to add a little water to the wine to make a few points. the number one issue i want to address is this: we expect the czech republic to make a clear statement before we have to vote on the treaty of accession in this parliament. the european parliament made its position clear in november in connection with the brok report. secondly, i would ask the commission, mr president of the commission and mr verheugen, to consider how we can jointly develop a third way of dealing with turkey. how can we bridge the time between the examination of the fulfilment of the criteria and the day when negotiations are to be discussed in concrete terms? what forms of cooperation can we offer here that are in the interests of both turkey and ourselves? i think 2003 is a very important year here. we should work together here - council, commission and parliament - to find ways of working together on a new form of cooperation with an important strategic neighbour in many individual projects - from the customs union to foreign and security policy. the last point i would like to make is that we should resist all attempts at blackmail, including those from within the european union. i do not want to go into detail here, but there are various council working parties at the moment to solve a problem for a country which joined in 1995. i think that attempts at blackmail from within the member states should not be supported here. i am very grateful to the council and to you, mr president-in-office, for not giving in to these attempts at blackmail.
- mr president, i have to go. if you have been to the fishermen on the galician coast - and a number of my group colleagues and i have been - you will know how much european aid is needed there. if our parliament approves it today and tomorrow, i think that is a good thing. when you arrive in santiago de compostela, you know that the camino de santiago ends there. the commissioner will know. the way of jacob is the path that pilgrims and sinners take to atone for their sins. we know that a whole series of heads of state and government, but also transport ministers, would have to go down these paths to atone for their sins of omission. the record of faults is too little port state control. (applause from the centre) if you have signed 25 per cent and only reach 9 per cent, as is the case in one member state, then that is a great sin. the register of offences: no decent system of european emergency ports. mr haarder, this was decided a long time ago, but the council has not yet put it into effect. the record of sin is absolute failure of the oil disaster compensation fund. it was adopted by parliament a year and a half ago. the council has not yet said anything. mr haarder, the prestige has passed by copenhagen. if we remember the route of the "prestige" coming from latvia through the baltic sea, skagerak, the english channel, biscay, galicia - it could have happened anywhere. in the baltic sea alone, there are four candidate countries which are covered by the shipping safety. malta and cyprus have always been in the critical discussion with the cheaper flags. commissioner, we need a definitive report from the commission before april 2003 on whether and how all these candidate countries are participating in the european policy on maritime safety. the prestige - as mr haarder will know - could have also broken up in the cadet section, one of the most dangerous places in the baltic sea, with countless accidents, near misses and ghost drivers. we need pilot duty here. the council and the commission must put pressure on russia to introduce a general obligation to fly through the imo. it is one of the most dangerous places in european shipping. if we want to get the single-hull tankers out of service, we need more double-hull tankers. perhaps you could have a word with mr monti about how we are going to deal with shipbuilding aid in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for his excellent report. i'm glad you're here and we're having this discussion, but i have to get right to the heart of the whole debate. i was very pleased to read the decisions of the council of transport ministers of 5 and 6 december on improving safety on ships, but i have no faith! i'll give you two examples. the council has always defended the use of cranes to the last, until 2015 and suddenly the transport ministers in the council declare the immediate end of the use of cranes for the transport of heavy oil. the council has also asked this wonderful and beautiful question: by what right is this to be done? we cannot create community law in the next few weeks. what national provisions can you give me which would enable member states to implement the ban on shell tankers at all? secondly, mr president-in-office of the council: my colleague mr piecyk and others have already pointed out that a number of member states have so far failed to comply with the obligation under the port state directive to inspect 25% of vessels calling at eu ports. the council has now decided, through the transport council, to increase the scrutiny of checks to a greater extent, preferably by 1 january. as president-in-office of the council, can you confirm to me how many visitor posts have been created in the last week or ten days in which countries and how many qualified applicants are available for these visitor posts? so, mr president-in-office, it is no good making wonderful decisions. we want to know from you how they are to be implemented. i would like to return to mr sterckx, because he wrote the report on the ports of escape. he's absolutely right. the same questions arise here, mr president-in-office. now you have said that the member states should set up the ports of escape more quickly, report them more quickly. but i would like to know how you intend to ensure that, if there are ports of escape - which are to be determined nationally - they are also used. we remember: the erika was trying to call at a port and was denied entry. and here, with the "prestige", there is also the question: if it had been docked, would it not have broken apart, could the oil have been pumped out more easily and could a disaster of this magnitude have been prevented? mr president-in-office of the council, how can you be sure that the member states are actually using the ports of escape to avoid major disasters? (applause from the centre)
- the joint debate on the joint agenda calls for - the statements by the council and the commission on immigration and asylum policy, - the report by mr watson (a5-0381/2002) on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the government of the special administrative region of the people's republic of china on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation (sec{2002) 412 - c5-0263/2002 - 2002/0092{cns)) and the oral question by mr watson (b5-0505/02) to the commission on the principles of the european union in relation to readmission agreements with third countries.
- mr president, mr president-in-office of the council and mr commissioner! is it not absurd that there is a council which appoints and commissions a commission to draw up a common policy on asylum and migration, and that the same council does everything possible to prevent the proposals of that commission? this is what we are dealing with on a daily basis in the european union in this area. i think my german colleagues who are not here today and who are not taking part in this debate at all have a good reason for this. i assume that they are celebrating today that germany will no longer have a modern immigration law, because they have successfully prevented the creation of such a modern law. i think that is what the christian democrats should ultimately ask themselves, namely, what they are doing. if they were to act responsibly, they would have to work with us to ensure that there is a common policy on asylum and migration. but that's not the point at all. the christian-democratic majority in the european union has only one objective: to prevent integration and a sensible immigration policy. i'm sorry about that.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0419/2002) on behalf of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council decision establishing the european year of education through sport - 2004 [9605/2/2002 - c5-0498/2002 - 2001/0244 (cod)) (rapporteur: mrs pack).
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. we once learned in school that "mens sana in corpore sano" - a healthy mind in a healthy body, and this ancient roman wisdom is familiar to all of us, at least in theory. sport is the most popular leisure activity. one in three europeans is involved in some form of sport, some even into old age. physical activity is good for health, and sports competition also teaches a number of social skills, such as friendship, team spirit, solidarity, performance, assertiveness and, last but not least, fair play. you know, a good athlete is recognized by his victory, a great athlete by his defeat. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why we have been fighting in this parliament for several years to get a legal basis for this in the treaties. i therefore welcome the fact that the commissioner has finally followed the wish expressed in my last report in 1996 and has declared a year of sport. it is not called the year of sport, but for many understandable reasons we call it the year of education through sport 2004. the aim is to highlight the value of extra-curricular education and its educational value in a large number of projects, and to highlight the close partnership between school sports on the one hand and the offer of sports organisations, which are so diverse in europe, on the other. to sum up, the aim and the concern of the 'european year of education through sport 2004' is not to show what people can do in sport - we can see this 365 days a year on dozens of tv channels - but to show what sport can do in human terms and for people. the seven objectives of the theme year are the subject of consensus in this house. the aim is to promote cooperation between educational institutions and sports organisations, social competence through sport, voluntary work, student mobility through international competitions, a balance between mental and physical activity and educational prospects for young professional athletes. the council has confirmed the main points of the report adopted by this house at first reading. he confirmed the amount, which is important. the commission believes that eur 11.5 million is sufficient to achieve what it has set out to do this year. if everyone is involved, including the media, this year can be a very big year for sport. i very much hope that the trend of declining importance of school sports will be reversed. this year we want to promote networking and cross-border cooperation. ladies and gentlemen, what we didn't want was for the little money to be used to fund an infinite number of research studies. there's always research, we don't need this year to do it. i think we should be satisfied with the research at the end, "what has this year brought?" but otherwise do not spend money on this. the council followed us here. my idea of organising a european competition in the run-up to the olympic games was also included - not in the treaty, but in a protocol. i am very happy about this and i very much hope that the commission will follow our request and launch a competition which will culminate in the winners of this competition being allowed to be present at the lighting of the olympic flame in olympia in 2004. that would be a highlight of the year of sports education. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we want to create a platform for educational activities in sports beyond borders, state educational institutions and organizations. we want to encourage crossborder initiatives and networks, and we need to create a pool of ideas through which exemplary projects and initiatives will be copied by as many people as possible during the preparation of 2003 and in 2004, in other words, best practices. the community project instrument is funded at 80%, and things done at national level alone are co-financed at 50%. i think this is a very appropriate way of highlighting the european dimension of this theme year. i would like to end by thanking the council and the commission and wishing all of us that we can bring the idea of this year of education through sport into our citizenship and that, at the end of the convention, it is wise to give sport a legal basis.
- ladies and gentlemen, i have a statement to make on the tragic sinking of the oil tanker prestige off the coast of galicia and the recent conclusions of the european council in copenhagen. i have received from the commission a proposal for a regulation introducing specific measures to compensate spanish fishermen and the shellfish and aquaculture sectors affected by oil pollution following the sinking of the prestige. in view of the extreme urgency of the situation and the heavy repercussions, the council will do its utmost to secure the rapid adoption of this proposal, if possible within the framework of the current council meeting. this would require the compulsory opinion of parliament as soon as possible. the proposal was adopted in agreement with the committee on fisheries and i therefore propose that the agenda be changed so that the vote can still take place at noon today. since no objection has been raised, we shall proceed as follows.
commission - mr president, very briefly, because i know that time is running out and the agenda is full. i would like to join all the members who have underlined the extraordinary work done by mrs pack and the energy she has put into it over many years to keep going and finally get it done. now her baby is, as it were, being taken to the church for baptism. i would like to answer briefly some specific questions that have been asked. if the parliament's suggestion to organise school competitions and to allow the winners to attend the ceremony of the olympic flame at olympia could not be included in the text, i can nevertheless reveal a secret to you: my staff are already working with the european school sports federation to see what can be done to meet parliament's request. i understand very well, mr president, that parliament does not want to see a flood of studies on this subject. i am not saying that we should not have done it, but that we should not have done it. i agree that there is a need for concrete work, but i think that an evaluation is necessary afterwards, as was done for the european year of languages, which, in my opinion, in view of its success, can serve as a model for us to know what to do and what not to do. i can tell you another secret: i have already received many requests for intervention, participation or collaboration from the major european sports federations, all of whom want to get involved and contribute to the project. they're not going to ask us for money, because they have a lot more than we do! the budget of €11.5 million is intended to encourage, to trigger a driving effect, because it is civil society, sportsmen and schools who will take concrete action. some questions have been raised about the european year of the disabled, for which we are actively working. the special world olympics will be held in the summer of 2003 in dublin. in this context, we will fund the commitment of irish volunteers, so that this great festival of disabled sport can take place. this is an experiment that will be repeated throughout 2003 and 2004: bringing together young volunteers - one hundred, two hundred, three hundred - from all the countries of europe, in the service of sport, at major emblematic events. the first experiment, in dublin, will therefore bring together two hundred volunteers from all over europe. this experience will be repeated in athens, both for the olympic and paralympic games, and at all major sporting events where the voluntary commitment, goodwill and idealism of our young people can be highlighted. in short, our youth will be the centre of attention. so you can see that concrete action is being taken. as i promised, you will be kept informed of developments, and i also count on your contribution to make this year, in your regions, in your countries, the year of all citizens, because as representatives of the citizens, you have an important role to play in this regard. (applause) i would like to thank
- this debate is over. the vote will take place today at 11.30 a.m.
- the commission's statement on services of general interest in europe is on the agenda.
commission. - mr president, the question of public services is a subject of wide debate in europe and elsewhere, and the general trend over the last twenty years has been a change in the role of public authority, which no longer produces directly but regulates and sets the rules of the game. this is particularly the case in europe, where the objective - and necessity - of creating a single market has undoubtedly encouraged such a development. experience shows that the creation of a single market based on a system of healthy competition is fully compatible with social and economic concerns, of which services of general interest are one of the most concrete objectives. moreover, a higher level of competition in the economy as a whole has promoted the efficiency of services of general interest. the community's history has always been consistent. at each new stage in the construction of europe, there have been advances both towards greater freedom of movement of goods, persons, services and capital and towards greater solidarity and cohesion. each of the internal market's advances has gone hand in hand with the introduction of measures that ensure that the most vulnerable regions and citizens are not left behind. this was the case with the single act, and it was also the case in maastricht and amsterdam. the introduction of economic and social cohesion policy, consumer protection and environmental policy into the treaty, all of which are intended to accompany and balance opening-up and liberalisation strategies, is an example. article 16 of the treaty, introduced in amsterdam, explicitly recognises the role of services of general economic interest. it confirms the need to find a better way of ensuring a harmonious and coherent combination of the principles relating to services of general interest and the other treaty objectives, in particular the internal market and free competition. the commission has always recognised the essential role of services of general interest. in its 1996 communication on services of general interest in europe, it proposed a reference to the promotion of such services. the sectoral legislation adopted at community level for large network industries, particularly energy, has very ambitious objectives in terms of public services and quality. in addition, the commission has always applied competition and market rules in such a way that the provision and development of high-quality services of general interest are not impeded. as an example, i could mention the communication on public broadcasting, with its state aid rules, which was drawn up by mario monti and myself last year and which is an example of how the competition rules can be applied intelligently while giving governments a wide margin of manoeuvre to run the public service. services of general interest are also an essential component of the european social model. they contribute to the quality of life of citizens and are a prerequisite for the full enjoyment of many of their rights. in its report to the laeken council, the commission announced its intention, and i quote, 'to examine the suggestion to consolidate and specify in a framework directive the principles relating to services of general interest which underlie article 16 of the treaty'. the commission has decided to pursue this examination in the framework of a green paper. there are two main reasons for this approach. firstly, the issues raised are much broader and cannot be dealt with in a discussion which would be limited to a proposal for a framework directive. secondly, given the very different expectations and positions regarding the feasibility of a framework directive and the added value it would represent, it has become necessary to establish a baseline beforehand. nor should the technical and conceptual difficulties which the establishment of a framework directive will inevitably raise be underestimated. the green paper will enable the commission, firstly, to examine the appropriateness of drawing up a framework directive and, secondly, to launch a broad debate on the general question. the aim of this green paper is therefore not to delay the study of the feasibility of a framework directive. on the contrary, given the diversity of traditions, structures and positions in the member states, only a broad debate at european level can bring out enough common points to establish a general community framework. and, in parallel with the preparation of the green paper, we are continuing work on other issues, particularly in the area of the application of state aid rules and in the area of the evaluation of these services. this work could also make a useful contribution to the green paper. as regards the timetable, the green paper is expected to be adopted in march 2003 and the conclusions are expected to be drawn before the end of the year. that is the commission's statement on this matter. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, i have to go. commissioner reding has a difficult task to perform here. it is to make a statement to the commission on a matter which the commission has been putting off for a year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has done little since then. she presented four documents. the last two, which were presented before the copenhagen summit, just as the others before the seville summit six months ago, say only that we are awaiting the judgments of the european court of justice. i do not understand at all why the commission is not having a public and offensive debate here in parliament on its proposals, madam commissioner. if you are staring at the snake like a rabbit, in this case at the european court of justice, you are not acting in the way you would have done. i would therefore like to urge very strongly - madam commissioner, you are only marginally concerned, it is primarily a matter for the commissioner responsible for competition - that the commission not only distributes the non-paper it sends to governments - the last one on 12 november this year - but that parliament is involved in this debate. we are not prepared to be the subject of all the commission's decisions if parliament is not properly involved in the legislative process. i would therefore like to make it quite clear that we have called for a framework directive, as you have already mentioned. we have called for a framework directive based on article 95 of the single market. in other words, this public debate on the basis of article 95 leads to a decision under the codecision procedure, parliament and council. all that has been said so far is that this is done as in the past in competition policy, i.e. only by a council decision. parliament will be informed and will then be asked to see how things go. it's just like you said: the subject will lead to a great debate on socio-political and economic policy. the commission cannot negotiate this with the council behind closed doors, but it must be done publicly here in front of the directly elected parliament. i make these remarks so clearly because none of these many documents, which are of varying quality - the non-paper is by far the best that has been presented - has dealt with this. the evaluation method presented in the summer was so hot-handed, of such poor quality, that it is impossible to form a reasonable opinion on this basis. i call on the commission to come to a decision and not wait! the ferring judgment of the european court of justice is a practical basis for the assessment of state aid and public services. i would ask you to take decisions on this basis soon and not to delay any further.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. i believe that a framework directive or a green paper should take account of the experience we have had with social security. i would therefore like to give an example of where we as a parliament can have an influence. if we were to finally move forward with legislation on local public transport, we would have done a concrete piece of the work of parliament and the council. i would like to commend the commission on this. the commission has already put forward a very specific proposal for a regulation on local public transport in 2000. we as a parliament took a clear position on this in 2001. what is the council doing? he puts the form in the drawer, he doesn't treat it, he doesn't want to treat it. i think we must signal to the council that we cannot tolerate any further delay on such key issues as the proper provision of services to citizens in the cities and regions, but that we should consider whether we should bring an action for inaction against the council. why is this question of legislation on local public transport so important, ladies and gentlemen? we have a situation that is legally unclear. we may be able to wait for the ecj's judgments, but we want to decide politically what kind of public transport system we want. we need legal certainty for cities, municipalities and private companies as to how public transport should be organised. the second point i would like to raise is this: i think there's been a slip of the tongue here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we can see this particularly well in local public transport. if the city or region, as the public authority, makes the right decision and defines the requirements for local public transport, how disabled-friendly it should be, what times we want to have, what kind of ticket and what fares we want - you can put in all the social aspects you want - then we have to put out an invitation to tender, mr president. because then the best offer has to be accepted, whether it's public or private. the competition is in favour of the citizen.
- mr president, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. we all - or the vast majority of this parliament - are very positive about the single market and competition. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have already heard a great deal on the green paper and the convention and whether we are too late. we can say with certainty that the european parliament believes that the dialogue between the commission and the european court of justice must be terminated. the european parliament is being ignored in a way that is hardly to be surpassed in this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i would like to clarify two points which are very important to me: one element of the welfare debate is that the commission only wants to engage in issues where there is an economic activity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. is the transport of sick persons an economic activity? - yes or no? we do not need a decision in each case, but we need criteria from the commission on the basis of which it will decide in the future. it is not possible that decisions are always taken at short notice, as was the case with savings banks. the second is subsidiarity. it's a big deal at the convention. the commission is far too late in submitting the convention. but the regions and the member states must still be given the opportunity to define this point on the ground. what cannot happen is that there is a back door imposition of standards by the commission. subsidiarity means that we have our own local decision-making powers, which means that in bavaria - where i come from - it is different from what might be the case in luxembourg, where the commissioner comes from, or in spain, portugal or greece, or perhaps in lithuania in the future. therefore, there must be no backdoor definition. in the end, however, i must say that what we need, what the citizens need, is legal certainty, and that is not helped by what a colleague of yours does every now and then, who also calls for the liberalisation of water. this is not on the agenda at the moment, it has to be dealt with on a sectoral basis, and that is why it is necessary for the commission to finally act on this.
- mr president, i have to go. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the council. it was as meaningless as the documents which you have sent to us - and i emphasize 'us', to parliament - in recent weeks. i would like to say that there are other documents which are worth discussing and discussing, but i will now turn to the documents and the explanation you have given us. you mentioned earlier in your introduction that this is a process of discussion that is being conducted very openly. at least that's how it came in the translation. what do you mean, open? open in the outcome or open in the discussion style? i have my doubts about both interpretations. we are already too far along in this respect. they're bringing a green book. the green paper is nothing but a foghorn for me, because other decisions have to be taken urgently. the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia. open discussion is not the case. i have just told you that we receive your statement as a commission, we receive documents of four or five pages, the number of pages does not matter much. but while we have these small documents, others, under the term 'non paper', are getting extensive documents where it is really worth discussing, where we might also find that there is finally legal certainty on certain points. there is the so-called non-paper of 12 november, consisting of 102 digits - 102 digits! i would just like to make one point and see what the commission really thinks about it. paragraph 100 states: 'an undertaking may provide several public services, some of which are loss-making and some of which are profitable. even if the company does not provide public services, cross-subsidisation between services may occur. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we need an answer now and not some green papers that postpone the debate process to the holy name day.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m. the composition of parliament: see minutes.
- mr. president, my voting machine did not work. i was voting against it!
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists, i would like to thank the commission and mrs rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou for the reports they have presented. the commission has done very well in setting clear targets for equal opportunities through the gender mainstreaming framework strategy and the associated 5th action programme. in some areas, it's faster. we adopted the directive on equal treatment in access to employment last year. this is a milestone. we are eagerly awaiting the first evaluation report. in other areas it takes a little longer. but there are signs of progress in the structural funds and in the fight against violence. i would point out that we have already proposed several times in the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, and it was decided this morning, that in 2004 we should have a year of action on education through sport. this house and i have been calling for a european year of action against violence for many years. please record this again. we are also looking forward to the proposal for a directive on article 13 on the prohibition of discrimination. it's also delayed. this has to be done with determination. we also call for political will to be maintained to promote the legal and practical inclusion of women at all levels of decision-making. the results at the convention were very disappointing. we have to do something about it now. but there is still a lot of work to be done in the european parliament. i am also criticising my own address. the parliament - and this must be clearly stated - is lagging behind the commission in its internal implementation of gender mainstreaming. this must be done at both the political and administrative levels. only with genuine political will can a balanced participation of women be achieved, and this from the top down. we are waiting for a clear signal from the chairmen of the political groups, the president of parliament and the chairmen of the committees. in the committee on women's rights we are currently working on an initiative to promote gender mainstreaming in the european parliament, a fitness programme for equality, so to speak. it will be available on international women's day in 2003. i think we can make a statement here to make it quite clear, also in the context of enlargement, that the european parliament is serious about the 'equal rights for men and women' approach. it is not enough just to write equal opportunities into party programmes just before the elections, we must put them into practice. we expect that in the european parliament, which is already in the front midfield with 30% of women, we will have an even better approach after the elections, that we will be much closer to the goal of equal representation of men and women in the european parliament. there are many points to be discussed. they're in both reports. i think ultimately what is crucial is the political will that needs to be demonstrated to really bring women forward.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. for the nine equal treatment directives in total, there are no measures to improve their application. we therefore need data and statistics to enable comparative evaluation, the evaluation of which can be the basis for solutions. it is not enough to say that men and women are equal before the law. the commission's main theme in 2001 was equal pay. but we must now take note in the report that the average wage for women for equal work is 76 per cent of that for men. the 2001 employment report shows that member states have taken only limited action to reduce this wage gap, and this is where the commission needs to act with a view to enlargement. the themes for 2002 and 2003 - reconciliation of family and work and participation of women in decision-making processes - are key areas of our intensive work in the committee. the existing provisions must be adapted to meet current needs. the decision of women and men to have a family and children must not be hampered by any obstacles to their participation in working life. women must be involved in decision-making at all levels. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. commissioner, there are good projects being developed by women's organizations. however, organisations need to be given more information on access to the commission's funding and aid system. the aim must be to give as many people as possible the opportunity to participate in the programmes. finally, specific support for women is provided each year, as in the structural funds and especially in the 2000/2006 action programme. the procedures must be streamlined and simplified, however, because they are too complex both at community and national level. i would like to conclude by thanking mrs rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou for her balanced report. unfortunately, there are only a few points that can be cut in the short term.
- madam president! - what is it? i would like to take this opportunity of this extremely interesting debate on the mountain regions to congratulate mr ebner and mr radwan on bringing us so close to the mountain regions in such an impressive and sympathetic way this week by organising this great exhibition and this great festival here. it was a great success and i would like to thank you for presenting these wonderful mountain regions in south tyrol and upper bavaria in such a great way!
- madam president! - what is it? the decision by the hong kong sar government to publish a consultation paper containing its proposals for an anti-subversion law under article 22 of the basic law has caused great uproar and concern in hong kong itself, but also here in the european parliament. we are very aware of what not only religious circles, but also, for example, the business community, the newspapers, the newspaper people in hong kong are telling us, and we must take these fears very seriously. these fears mean that there is fear, that the opposition is silenced, that freedom of speech and the press and the right to publish and the right to assemble are to be restricted, and that the right and the freedom to form trade unions will also no longer be guaranteed. these fears are real and we must take them seriously, because these are civil rights which are among our basic values and these are the basic values we want to defend in china too. we are therefore also asking the people's republic of china to respect the autonomy of hong kong in this system, which was also mentioned by my previous speakers, a state with two systems. and that needs to be respected. i call on china to respect this and to ensure that hong kong can exercise its own rights and that no pressure is exerted to restrict these existing rights and freedoms.
- madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. as a member of the delegation for relations with the people's republic of china, i have recently had many very interesting discussions with my chinese colleagues. i had the impression that an opening, a dialogue, a real dialogue would be opened on human rights. that is why i very much welcomed the release of both ngawang sangdrol and jigme sangpo. this was a sign to us that what was said was actually being heard and a promise was being fulfilled. we very much welcome the fact that li peng has fulfilled his promise to finally get in touch with the dalai lama and that the first talks have actually been held with the representatives of the dalai lama. these are two signs that were very positive. we are particularly appalled that at exactly the same time two people, tenzin delek and lobsang dhondup - a lama and his follower - were arrested and held in solitary confinement for six or even eight months, although it is still not clear that they actually committed the crime they are accused of. this is contrary to any rule of law that we can of course demand from a people or from a government that we expect. we understand very well that fighting terrorism is important, but then the real terrorism must be fought, not dissidents. the fight against terrorism must of course also be based on the rule of law, otherwise it cannot be right. i just hope that this was a faux pas, that it will be very quickly put right by the chinese government, and that these two people will be released or at least get a real trial. i also hope that china will ensure that this door, which has been opened very lightly in the direction of human rights, is not closed again but is opened further so that genuine rule of law can also be established in china. (applause from the centre)
- madam president! - what is it? it was a hopeful beginning: in september, an official delegation of the dalai lama visited the chinese leadership. in october, after decades of imprisonment, sister ngawang sangdrol was released from prison following massive international protests, including from our european parliament. a considerable number of us parliamentarians have often nominated her for the sakharov prize. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. are the hardliners winning? the news of the last few days is alarming. at the beginning of december, as my colleagues have pointed out, two tibetans were sentenced to death by the kardze people's court in a legally questionable summary trial. they are charged with illegal possession of weapons, separatism and involvement in an april bombing in chengdu. the case concerns tibetan tulku tenzin delek, who is facing a death sentence with a two-year reprieve. for decades he has been committed to the preservation of tibetan culture, language and religion. he founded new monasteries, he worked for the social welfare of the population. threatened with the death penalty and its immediate execution is his associate lobsang dhondup. it is obvious that the two defendants were not given a fair trial. international standards were violated. tenzin delek was held in solitary confinement for eight months without access to relatives or lawyers - a clear violation of un minimum standards for the treatment of prisoners. in order to initiate the ordinary legal proceedings, the authorities demanded a deposit of the equivalent of eur 120 000. students of the tulku who tried to collect the money were arrested. this is a flagrant violation of international human rights. the authorities in china must comply with legal standards. the fight against terrorism, which is necessary and which we all support, cannot be fought without the rule of law. it is totally unacceptable to attribute the non-violent struggle for the exercise of tibetan religion and culture to an element of terrorism. on behalf of the epp-ed group, i call on the commission to bring these mistaken judgments immediately to the attention of the chinese in the human rights dialogue. enforcement based on unlawful conditions must be prevented and the granting of financial resources must be linked to progress in the human rights situation. i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to mobilize the embassies of your member states in beijing immediately to ensure that the accused are given a fair trial. the first measure must be to suspend the death penalty. and in conclusion, as president of the european parliament's intergroup on tibet, i would like to express my hope that the forces of reason will prevail in china and that our global commitment to the rule of law and human rights will be successful. (applause from the centre)
- madam president, as has already been said, the death sentences in question have absolutely nothing to do with the fight against terrorism. but it also shows the responsibility we have to fight this fight. the united states also has this responsibility within the framework of international institutions, the united nations and on the basis of international law. if we fight terrorism - and unfortunately this is also the danger in washington - only on the basis of a coalition of the powerful, then there is a danger that the powerful will misuse this fight against terrorism for their own purposes: moscow against chechnya, beijing against tibet. it is important to note that repression such as that in tibet or chechnya is not a means of fighting terrorism, but of creating it. we were talking about mountain regions earlier. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a number of proposals. even in our european democracies there have been extremist developments. today, this sounds unlikely, because autonomy has been achieved, no one is acting separatist or terrorist, but people feel at home in the larger community of europeans and see themselves as a core region of europe. so i want to say to the chinese: "give the tibetans autonomy, give them democracy, give them human rights!" this is a fight against terrorism and separatism. this is a successful struggle, which does not produce terrorism but genuinely brings peace and ensures that there is peace in this most important, historically valuable mountain region of the world, a peace that can be a model for the whole world. as for the present resolution, it contains many good things, but one unfortunate wording, namely 'the tibetan minority in china'. of course, compared to the great chinese people, we are all minorities. but it is simply the great tibetan people with their ancient world culture, which is a precious heritage of mankind. we call on the chinese to respect this people and their culture as full partners, as we do with tibetans and chinese alike. (applause from the centre)
- madam president, we propose that the title be changed, also because of the current state of the debate, and many speakers would actually have to agree with this proposal, and that is: the human rights situation of the tibetan.
- madam president, i would just like to say that the same wording would then have to be used in paragraph 7. i would therefore ask that this be done throughout the resolution in the title and in paragraph 7.
- madam president, after our president wished us a merry christmas this afternoon, which may have led to many of us having accidentally left already, i should like to take this opportunity to thank you as our thursday evening president for your excellent conduct of the sitting and to congratulate you. i just wanted to say that we wish you a very merry christmas, and, of course, all the staff who have stuck with us until tonight.
