mr president, colleagues, i make no apology for beginning my contribution by thanking the outgoing president, mrs fontaine, for the work that she did as president. she led the fight against terrorism long before 11 september. it is to her credit that she took those initiatives at that time. before a vote is even cast in this election, we already know the winner. the winner is the european parliament because, as pat cox has rightly said, we have had an open election, keenly, but fairly contested. that can only help to raise the profile and to improve the image of this institution – something which frankly is very necessary. the 1999 european elections, eurobarometer and other opinion polls all demonstrate that this institution has an image problem. with the convention, enlargement and the 2004 european elections, we face enormous challenges. every member of this parliament now has the opportunity, in a secret ballot, to vote for the person they believe can best guide us through this vital phase. i have been a member of this parliament for 17 years. i have had the honour of being its vice-president for 12 of them. in that time i proved my determination to work for parliament and for all its members. as rapporteur on the maastricht and amsterdam treaties, i negotiated with heads of government to secure codecision for this parliament. as one of parliament's representatives on cosac, i worked to convince national parliaments of the importance of the convention method for the next reform of the treaties. as vice-president of parliament i have sought to modernise and improve our working methods. i am deeply conscious of the fact that everything i have achieved in this parliament has been achieved through working with colleagues across the political spectrum. i have fought for what i believe to be right, and i have done that, sometimes, against the interests of my own political group and sometimes even against the interests of my own country. if elected president, i pledge to fight for what this parliament needs. that includes: firstly, a stronger role in electing the next president of the european commission; second, codecision for all legislation; third, an end to the artificial distinction in the budget between compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure; fourth, ensuring that we, in this house, are ready for enlargement. we all know that the european union faces many sensitive issues in the coming months and years. my task as president would be to ensure that at this vital time parliament's voice is not only heard but acted upon on these issues. this plenary is parliament's shop window to the world. it should be the place where the outside world can identify the real points of controversy between ourselves, and between ourselves, the commission and the council. yet, frankly, because we deal with so many items – about 35 every four-day part-session – and because of the structure of our debates and the amount of time we spend voting, the relevance of what we do in this chamber is sometimes obscured to the outside world. we need, as a parliament, to resolve more issues in committee and reform both the structure of our debates and the way we vote. we need to provide our committees and rapporteurs with the necessary technical and legal resources to allow us to become a genuine equal to the council as a co-legislator. in short, i want this parliament to become a real debating chamber – a parliament where the general public can hear lively debates over real political choices and one where every member feels that they have the opportunity to participate. i strongly believe that members of this parliament do an excellent job carrying out our legislative, budgetary and control functions. but no parliament can work in the dark. it is vital that we reconnect with the citizens so that we really can live up to our claim to be the voice of the people in eu decision-making. thirty months is a short time. reform will only be possible if the president has the support of all members across the whole house. we need a president for all of parliament. my record in this house, i hope you will agree, demonstrates that i would be an inclusive president. i have already committed myself to having a cabinet that would be balanced in terms of gender, nationality and political party. i would want a team of all the talents from right or left, big group or small group, medium-size or no group. if elected i pledge to be a president for the whole parliament and all its members. if you elect me today i would see this as the pinnacle of my political career. all my energy, all my commitment and all my enthusiasm would be channelled into ensuring that this is a parliament of which we can be proud. (loud applause)
mr president, before turning to congratulate you, i should firstly like to say that the whole house was honoured by having such a distinguished european and unflinching democrat as mr soares chairing our presidential elections. it was delightful to see him here. (applause)i offer you my warmest congratulations. it is a victory that was well deserved. you had to campaign hard for it. you did so. you fought your corner robustly and you demonstrated throughout the campaign all the qualities you will need to be a first-class president of this house. i look forward to working with you. given what you said, and your whole record in this house, i know you will work to defend every member's rights and interests; that you will be fair across the political spectrum; that you will be articulate in defending the rights of this parliament externally and robust with the other institutions, when necessary. i offer you my unfailing support and my loyalty over your two-and-a-half years. i look forward to working with you. i would like to say thank you to my own political group, firstly for allowing me to stand and secondly for giving me so much support during the last three or four months. perhaps even more importantly i would like to thank those who did not vote for me. i reckon i have spoken to between 300 and 400 members. i have spoken to every group in this house. i have spoken to committees and intergroups. wherever i have gone i have met unfailing courtesy and politeness. even when people disagreed with me they were prepared to give me a hearing. that is democracy in action. i thank the whole house for behaving in that manner. (applause)again, in that spirit, i would like to thank mr poettering for what he said, which falls into that category. this is not the time for long speeches, mr president, but you deserve your victory. i wish you well. you said at some point during the campaign that whatever happened, a week or two after the election we would have a bloody good drink. i am looking forward to it! (laughter and sustained applause)
on behalf of the quite large non-attached group of thirty-plus members, some of them refugees from other places, i congratulate you on taking office. this is a wide and diverse group with a lot of political philosophies, which stretch across the whole range, but they have in common the fact that they all have a political mandate, they have all been supported by thousands, indeed often millions of people in various ballot boxes in different countries. winston churchill once said that democracy can be inconvenient, but it is the best system we know. you also, in your introduction, made a point about people who feel marginal. often, people within this group have felt marginal; indeed some of them used to be in a group that was dissolved and they felt very unhappy about the way that was done. i do not wish to make any political points because it would be very difficult to find a common political point in this group; but i do want to point out what unites all the members of the non-attached group, which is that we look to you for fairness, we look to you for reasonable treatment, we look to you to recognise people in this part of the house when they speak and we look to you to recognise that although many of us may be awkward, we are nonetheless democrats and we nonetheless wish to play a part in the workings of this house. you come from a small country and a small group; indeed we know that you come from a very small group because you were a group of one when you came from ireland. i am now a group of one so that gives us something in common. so, from one member of a group of one to another member of a group of one, let me say: congratulations. we look forward to working with you and i know all my colleagues on these new benches look forward to you treating them fairly and, i hope, giving them the democratic respect which i know they all deserve. (applause)
mr president, on a point of order. in light of the amendment tabled by mr davies and myself at the end of last year to the common foreign and security policy report and adopted by parliament, calling on the eu to act as an honest broker between india and pakistan over the dispute in kashmir, could we have a council declaration or an oral question on this matter at the next part-session? this dispute dates back more than 50 years; un resolutions have not been acted upon and, as both countries are now nuclear powers, it is very important that we resolve this dispute. i ask the eu to be proactive and to offer its services as a mediator, as no other body seems to be doing so.
mr president, on a point of order. the house will be aware that last week in nigeria a young woman was condemned to death for adultery. she was to be stoned to death, having been buried in the ground. after a letter from mrs fontaine, a number of members of this house and from myself, as acp co-president, that death sentence was not carried out, and an appeal can be made within two months. however, i am appalled to tell you that a further case has now arisen; an 18-year-old is to be taken to court on monday for the same offence of adultery and will be condemned to death, again by stoning. i sincerely hope that this house, and every member in it, will support you in writing to nigeria in the hope that such sentences will be stopped in the future, so that this barbaric method of killing someone under sharia law is taken up with the nigerian government and the latter urged to ensure that it never happens again. (applause)
mr president, on a point of order. i do not wish to delay matters. what mr dell'alba has said is absolutely right. we have proved that 99.9% of members of the european parliament are capable of keeping up with the technological skills of their children. it would be quite absurd now not to proceed with the concluding votes on the quaestors. as to the last point made by my colleague on the other side of the house about secrecy, i have not a single clue as to how my colleagues on this side of the house voted, because i did not choose to peer over their shoulders.
mr president, i have a simple proposal to make to colleagues which is non-technological. we should use our time to complete the vote for quaestors. we have spent far too long voting this week. mr onesta gave us a very useful piece of paper yesterday. i do not know whether it is symbolic, but it is blank! this is a non-technological item, so the socialists should not be frightened of it. having voted, members should put a piece of paper – or mr onesta's block – over their screen. it is quite simple. (laughter)
mr president! prime minister, you have chosen more europe as the theme for your presidency. liberal democrats hope that this will be reflected in your commitment to enlargement of the european union. just as this house insisted on iberian enlargement some 15 years ago, despite doubts in certain national capitals, so we will militate for an early and successful eastward enlargement in which 2002 will be crucial. we will judge your presidency primarily by your achievements in preparing the reunification of our continent. we wish you success, too, in your efforts to guide smoothly the introduction of the euro. as one who saw in the new year in france, i am particularly grateful for spain's role in lending chirac and jospin a little small change. perhaps next time you see tony blair you will hand him a few coins as well and ask him whether his indecision is final. british entry into the euro would certainly mean the kind of more europe we would like to see. (applause) your vision of the future speaks of new transnational challenges. relations between india and pakistan are deeply worrying but afghanistan must be uppermost in our minds. soon the bombing must stop and the building must begin. we must respond to the plight of the people through generous giving from our aid budget and more help in patrolling the peace. your programme speaks of a war against terrorism. this is no conventional war and it will not be won with conventional weapons. some of us fear that military intelligence, which is leading to bombing and military solutions, may be causing collateral damage and storing up other problems for the future. we hope that europe can offset this collateral damage by adding to our armoury emotional intelligence, recognising that political problems often require political solutions. you kindly referred to my report on terrorism, adopted on 6 september last year. i would draw your attention, too, to our resolution on cooperation between the united states and the european union in the fight against terrorism. liberal democrats view with deep unease the divergence between the us approach of emergency laws and military tribunals and the rights-based approach that we want for the union. we insist that you can be both tough on terrorism and true to our treaties. (applause) you will take forward the building of the area of freedom, security and justice defined in the amsterdam treaty. your presidency programme asserts that current exceptional circumstances require putting security first. if this is true we will nonetheless push you to make sure that freedom and justice are not far behind. in drafting a programme like this any presidency faces a dilemma. we recognise that. a list of priorities soon becomes a universal catalogue. each member state brings something different to the party. while we welcome the input that spain can make to the barcelona process and euro-med, we are nonetheless fascinated to read in your programme that the european union's northern dimension is one of your priorities. we will follow development in this matter closely. the reform of the council that you talk about is most welcome. we hope that you will ensure that the council abides by its undertaking to allow public access to documents and that it seeks better relations with this house, which, sadly, does not get a mention in your programme until page 20. this house is the true democratic forum of our continent and we want to see its rights respected. if for my group something is missing in this document it is a recognition of europe's different regions and cultures. it reads to me as a rather castilian programme that does not reflect entirely the spain which i have visited and the spain that is represented in my group. what has become of the work of the eminent director-general in the commission, mr eneko landaburu? your second definition of more europe talks about 'signifying the european nature of spanish society.' our second definition of more europe would be that it signifies the contribution of all iberian cultures and the flowering thereof among other european cultures in the creation of a europe whose strength is not that of a monolithic state with deciduous development, but one of unity through diversity. in wishing you every success, prime minister, i look forward to a vigorous debate with the spanish presidency. (applause)
prime minister aznar's performance this morning suggests that his presidency promises to be focused and business-like and committed to addressing the big issues. the presidency has many tasks on the international front; carrying forward the global war on terrorism is the most difficult and the most important. the presidency has promised to resolutely promote solidarity with the united states at this time of crisis, and it is right to do so, but other foreign problems will crowd in. in zimbabwe we have a growing tragedy which requires urgent eu action: smart sanctions need to be introduced immediately and a clear message sent about the dangerous consequences of the criminal path on which mr mugabe is currently engaged. the presidency faces similar challenges on the economic front. if europe is serious about making itself the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010, then barcelona promises to be a moment of truth. we simply cannot afford continued failure. europe has to get it right. since stockholm things have in fact moved backwards. the liberalising agenda has become bogged down by new social and environmental targets. since then we have seen at least three new eu directives which directly reduce labour market flexibility, with more in the pipeline, as well as new national laws, as in france, that tie the hands of business. this is a job-destroying agenda. in the target sectors for greater competition, the picture is frankly unacceptable. in financial services – telecoms for instance – liberalisation is proceeding too slowly. the freeing up of energy markets and postal services is way behind schedule. if europe really wants to emerge as the global economic leader by the end of this decade, it must show real commitment. we need to make it easier to start and run a business and to keep and invest profits. that means a lot of vested interests will need to be confronted. we look to prime minister aznar to lead the way.
mr president, prime minister, thank you for your presentation of the spanish presidency's priorities. i will comment on just one of them, namely your determination to complete the single market in the gas and electricity sectors. we have misgivings about your approach. you want the eu to be guided by five major principles: openness, liberalisation, competition, transparency and interconnection. these are fundamental to an open market. energy, however, is not like other goods or services. it has other facets: basic social need and environmental impact. a rushed and ill-considered liberalisation would be highly dangerous. your own country, like california, has recently suffered major power cuts following liberalisation. liberalisation leads to a dash for gas, forcing us to import gas from some very fragile regimes. we need to ensure that indigenous energy sources can play a major role in energy supply. renewable energies in particular need legal protection and promotion. the greatest contribution to security of supply is intelligent use of energy, one of the regulatory requirements of wise liberalisation. please ensure that energy efficiency becomes a key national indicator at barcelona. uneven opening of the market between countries brings huge resentment. we strongly support your efforts to put pressure on certain governments, which keep their markets closed while they take advantage of open markets elsewhere. i look forward to your assurance that liberalisation of energy will take place in a very strictly regulated framework which protects the environment and takes heed of social consequences, some of which are very serious. unlike mr evans, we think that is important.
mr president, i speak for the socialists from the point of view of parliament's committee on employment and social affairs. the barcelona summit will be a major milestone during the spanish presidency and it is essential that we reply to the downward global economic trend by further deepening and strengthening the process laid down at lisbon and further developed at stockholm and göteborg. the lisbon policy mix of mutually supportive economic reform, full employment, social cohesion and sustainable development needs to be reinforced through concrete measures that increase the potential for growth and job creation. it would be a grave mistake to concentrate – as some have done in the debate today – on only one aspect of the lisbon process, that of structural reform. at this time, we need to further develop the coherence of the lisbon process and reinforce it. in concrete terms, we want a number of priorities developed at barcelona, some of which are reflected in the commission's synthesis report adopted this week. the following are purely illustrative in the limited time available. we want a strengthening of resolve to achieve the goal of a 70% employment rate by 2010, recognising the good progress we have seen and increasing the participation of unemployed people in active labour measures to at least 20% in nearly all member states; we want to go further and set a new target of 44%, the level in the three best-performing member states, to be achieved within a five-year timeframe. within this timeframe we need, among other things, further action for women and older workers able and willing to stay in the labour market; action to improve the availability of affordable and good-quality child care; goals for reductions in youth unemployment and renewed emphasis upon life-long learning, training and improved mobility. we also need further action to address demographic change through an integrated approach to safeguard sustainable and universal pensions.
mr president, i should like to deal with one aspect of this debate, and that is the long-term credibility of the european union's institutions. mr president-in-office, you have come here today to give your commitment – which is very warmly welcomed – to deeper democratic control and also agreed to come before this house another couple of times before the end of your presidency. since the mid-1980s we have made great strides with treaty revision for greater parliamentary involvement in the democratic process. however, before the next treaty change in 2004 and the european elections that year, we need to make more progress towards reform in each of the european institutions. commission president mr prodi has made great strides towards being able to promote people on merit and make changes to various rules and regulations which will come before this house in the next few months. the trouble is that very few people in this house or in the outside world know about the changes which have been made in the commission. we would welcome a document stating what has now happened, so that we know what has been going on. mr president-in-office of parliament, we have your commitment to a thorough reform of our working methods and, as you have been in office for only 24 hours, we cannot expect changes already, but you have our support, in particular as regards parliament's 2003 budget, for major changes in the way we work. finally, mr president-in-office of the council, you have indicated in your programme that:
in writing. - i tried to tell the house that, as some colleagues know, almost all my cattle have contracted foot-and-mouth disease and have been slaughtered. however, as i do not consider that the proposed committee of inquiry would harm my interests, i voted in favour of it.
mr president, the launch of the notes and coins has finally made the euro a political reality for the 300 million people of euroland. coming from a country which is out, and a party which opposes joining, i was half expecting more glitches and popular resentment at the imposition of an unfamiliar currency. so far so good, with little inflationary rounding-up. i congratulate the ecb, the commission and the national central banks on their handling of the logistics of this massive undertaking without any upsurge in armed robbery or counterfeiting, although i still question the need for a eur 500 note which can only facilitate criminality. the naturally cautious british conservative position is that, although the euro may be an added convenience to travellers and improve price transparency in the single market, it is undoubtedly intended primarily to bolster pan-european identity as a stepping stone to further political integration – something admitted to by everybody bar mr blair and our labour government – and to control not only of monetary policy, but also of taxation. the "one size fits all" monetary policy, as the commission's pessimistic 2001 economic report admits, cannot be right for all of the countries all of the time and, coupled with the fiscal restraints of the stability and growth pact, imposes severe destabilising problems and a lack of flexibility on certain economies, as we have already seen in the artificial boom scenario of ireland. the risks of an asymmetric shock developing will only get bigger after enlargement as european labour markets remain unreformed and largely immobile. president prodi has admitted this inherent risk and the call will come very shortly for a much bigger eu budget and direct eu taxes to set up bail-out funds to compensate affected countries for their loss of rights to devalue their currencies or lower their interest rates. nevertheless, i wish the euro well as the currency of our major trading partners, since uk prosperity is also affected by its stability. i hope that my pessimistic prognosis, which echoes that of the commission's own, proves to be wrong over time. i would also like confirmation from commissioner solbes that, in his opinion, for the uk to join the euro it will have to spend at least two years locked into the erm ii phase first before proceeding. finally, i should like to congratulate you, mr president, on your election.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. – mr president, the committee on employment and social affairs has long argued for greater consideration of social and employment standards in public procurement in two ways. the first is by ensuring that current legal provisions are complied with by all tenderers so as to avoid any unfair competition. i would ask members to bear that in mind in the light of what the rapporteur said in his introductory remarks. we need to note in this respect that it is not a matter of social criteria – putting a question mark over the objective nature of the procurement process – but the very opposite: what matters is to create a level playing field for all those taking part in a procurement procedure. the second way in which we want social criteria to be taken into account is by enabling contracting authorities to pursue certain social and employment objectives, such as equal opportunities and social inclusion in connection with procurement. but this is always – again i would stress this in the light of what the rapporteur has said – subject to the strict requirement that it does not distort competition. this is made plain repeatedly in the amendments by the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, that were in turn inspired by the opinion of the committee on employment. the opinion of the committee on employment looked at the different stages of the tendering process and made a number of recommendations for each of those stages. at the first stage, the need for the inclusion of a reference to the law applicable should become a component of the contract documentation. candidates, tenderers in a procedure, should have access to all the information on all social and employment criteria that they should be taking into account. article 27 is particularly important in the general directive in that respect. i would draw members' attention to amendment no 129 by mrs berger. it is an excellent amendment, which i hope will be supported by the house. at the second stage we need to ensure that we have proper compliance with the standards laid down in the first stage and there should be a possibility to exclude people who have not toed the line in the past in relation to those social and employment standards. article 46 is particularly important in that respect and i would draw members' attention to amendments nos 82, 86, 87 and 89. during the selection of candidates and the award of the contract, we need to ensure compliance with legal provisions relating to employment protection and working conditions. that is article 53, which has attracted most attention in the discussions inside the committee on legal affairs. i would draw members' attention in that respect to amendments nos 134 and 140. i sincerely hope we can reach agreement on one of those amendments in our vote tomorrow. finally, there needs to be an adequate review procedure to ensure that these criteria are applied in the execution of the contract. amendment no 108, among others, is important in that respect. i would draw attention to one final amendment, which is important. it was highlighted in the opinion of the committee on employment and relates to sheltered employment. amendment no 36 gives member states the possibility to reserve certain contracts for sheltered employment schemes or sheltered workshops where the majority of workers in those schemes or workshops are people with disabilities. this is a longstanding issue in some member states, in particular my own. i hope this amendment can be adopted tomorrow and we get a clear reference to this in the directive for the future. that is the main gist of the opinion of the committee on employment. these concerns are all reflected in the amendments to be considered tomorrow. i hope they will command the support of the house.
mr president, at the heart of this debate is the theme of protecting the public interest in contracts awarded by public authorities. it is also, in the context of the internal market, about encouraging cross-border tendering and working: 15% of eu gdp – that is an important input in achieving public policy aims. we should be looking to achieve best value for our citizens and a transparent process for those tendering. but best value can never be based on purely financial criteria. price alone can never be a complete measure of what is in the public interest, of what is the most advantageous offer. i remember, as the member of a local authority, seeing a council waste time, effort and money trying to unscramble a valuable school meals contract that proved to be totally unsatisfactory. yes, the price was right, but only the lawyers won. the goals pursued by public authorities are justifiably, in the public interest, a mixture that includes environmental and social goals. as long as the playing field is level and the procedure is absolutely transparent, such goals and choices can and should be valid, as the ecj has recently confirmed. such choices, indeed, are a valid and intrinsic part of local political life.
mr president, it is a happy coincidence that you have taken the chair this afternoon for it permits me to say with what pride it is that i share with you a constituency under our present electoral arrangements as a fellow member for scotland. you have brought credit on our constituency in the dignified and splendid way you have conducted yourself over recent weeks and we are very pleased with that. (applause) in that constituency, as you well know, it is not taken for granted that what is publicly provided or done is bad and only what is privately done is good. nor does the commission take that view. but, as mrs wallis has just said, this debate focuses on the very question of what decisions are properly taken by the public authorities, by democratic procedures on the basis of public choice, and what must then reasonably be left to the market to deal with. it is crucial for that dividing line to be got right. mrs hautala asked a question which the commissioner must answer when replying to this debate today. it is a question which can also be addressed to mr zappalà, who says that we should only take economic conditions into account, not, for example, environmental or social ones. if helsinki or edinburgh became seriously polluted with diesel fumes, that would give rise to costs. somebody would have to pay to clean them up eventually. to say that is a non-economic cost is simply an odd kind of economics. so we turn the thing round: we ask who shall decide if the streets of helsinki or the streets of edinburgh need environmentally friendly and sustainable buses? who can best take that decision? is it best taken in brussels? is it best taken in strasbourg by this parliament? is it best taken in london? no, it is best taken in edinburgh or in helsinki. we need a decision of that kind to be taken locally. of course, we do not want that decision to lead to unfair consequences. it must be open and transparent. who can come and bid for this contract and on what terms can they obtain it? that is fine, but do not exclude the local authority, the people of a region, from saying themselves what standards they demand of those who serve them. if that is to be ruled out by european law, europe will not grow in popularity among its citizens. we must have this kind of clear responsibility for the public good taken by public authorities. i would like to hear the commission's reply to that point.
mr president, may i too offer my congratulations to you on your election as first vice-president. i should like to provide a different perspective on the debate this afternoon. in this debate we have not heard from the people who are now supplying public authorities across the european union as a result of the tremendous progress that has been made in opening up public contracting all over the european union. so far we have heard nothing this afternoon about the people who are driving the economy forward because they are getting open access to tenders, cheaply and readily available by electronic means. that applies to businesses, organisations, service providers, manufacturers, contractors all over the european union. a few weeks ago i went to see one of those companies in my constituency. it employs 80 people. every morning it logs on to the official journal. five or six tenders are listed there, all for the united kingdom. this company does not at the moment have export ambitions but the official journal gives it cheap, ready access to customers in public authorities to a standard format. it fulfils and puts in tenders for them every week. in this perspective i want to look at the balance between economic, environmental and social issues. that company in the black country in the united kingdom employs 80 people, that is 80 much-needed jobs, and it complies with every single social requirement in united kingdom law. it complies with all the environmental rules in united kingdom law. it is perfectly entitled to apply for a contract. why should that be otherwise? why should it have to do anything else? this is primarily an economic instrument. that is what it was designed to be to begin with. we may want to add to its social burdens – and plenty of colleagues over there would like to do that. we will have many more debates with mrs thorning-schmidt and other colleagues about adding to the requirements to improve the safety and health of their workers. that is fine. if companies comply with that, they should be entitled to apply for contracts. i want to pick up on mr maccormick's points, because methinks he protests too much. on the question of the helsinki bus contract, surely it was up to the helsinki authorities to decide, before they put the contract out to tender, what was the optimum and most environmentally friendly bus that they wanted? it is not part of public contract to require the bus manufacturers to do an environmental appraisal for helsinki before they then submit the contract. if the helsinki authorities had said that they wanted 100 buses powered by natural gas and that is the contract, then fine, if that is what they want to do. but it should be done on an open and consistent basis. finally, i want to turn to this question of thresholds. this seems to be the most extraordinary debate. i particularly refer to one of the opinions from emac, in which our colleague, who unfortunately is not here, said he wanted to simplify matters by raising thresholds but at the same time he wanted to allocate 15% of contracts to smes. does he think that by removing a substantial number of contracts from the public procurement regime, by raising thresholds, he is going to improve the situation for smes? what sort of world are we living in? this is an area where we want smes to compete. we want local authorities to put in contracts on a consistent open basis that will give our citizens value for money. we want to oblige them to do that. just because they find it difficult, because they think it costs them money – probably because they do not want to comply with all the requirements – they want more discretion to give contracts not on an open basis. that is what raising this public threshold is all about. we should not do it. it will undermine the value of a system that is working well already. that is what we should be looking at: improvement, not destruction.
mr president, i too have companies in my constituency that are benefiting from this public procurement regime. indeed they are benefiting from providing euro slot machines for public authorities even though britain is not in the euro zone. there are lots of opportunities here. but i want to direct some very pertinent questions to the commissioner and i hope he will answer those questions in his response. commissioner, we need some clarification regarding thresholds, as mr harbour has indicated. i would genuinely like to know what would be the effect on the public procurement market if thresholds were to be increased, and particularly on small and medium-sized enterprises and on consumers. i would also like to know, as regards our international obligations under the wto general procurement agreement with third countries, whether it would be the case, as has been established by commission services, that the us and japan would actually be favoured contractors and that our eu suppliers would lose out because we would be operating two distinctly different regimes. i should like to raise questions on the social criteria. members have already stressed the compatibility of incorporating strong social progress criteria in award procedures while respecting the principles of competition law and of equal treatment and non-discrimination. it ought to be possible to combine economic reform and competition policy with strong and sound social justice and social progress principles. i cannot understand why, if we have a system of transparency and open competition, how we cannot prevent that from being used as a protectionist smoke screen in the publication of tenders. why has the commission not incorporated the full force of good practice from european case law into the body of this directive to ensure that we guarantee the highest social and economic standards in public procurement? surely we owe that to our public authorities, to our consumers and indeed to our businesses. why has the commission gone down the route of a voluntary approach? i hope the commission will accept the amendments mentioned by my colleague, mr hughes, to allow for reserve contracts for sheltered employment schemes. i hope it will respect parliament's wishes for a strong line to be taken in this directive, ensuring compliance with core labour standards and permitting the exclusion of those in breach of those standards.
rapporteur. – mr president, i had not followed the last report in any detail but if commissioner wallström is in the same sort of mood as commissioner bolkestein, i am glad i am not tabling any amendments today. on a complete change of note, a few weeks ago i was reading to my daughter, kate, from a christmas carol by the 19th-century british author charles dickens. scrooge sat in his counting house, he wrote. "the city clocks had only just gone three, but it was quite dark already and candles were flaring in the windows of the neighbouring offices like ruddy smears upon the palpable brown air." it must be a great cause for cheer in european cities today that we no longer have to breathe that "palpable brown air". it is a sign of environmental progress and achievement that air quality now is better than it has been for centuries. but there is more yet to be done, and in its clean air for europe programme the commission has identified particulates and ozone as two priorities for action. ozone pollution contributes to the premature death of tens of thousands of people each year; it causes breathing difficulties, coughs, headaches and eye irritation. the world health organisation has not been able to identify a threshold below which there are no effects. it can also damage vegetation, reduce crop yields and stunt the growth of forests and, like acid rain, it can eat into and destroy the fabric of buildings and works of art. and so we have this draft directive to address the problem. it started out as a remarkably weak proposal, the key element of which was to set targets for 2010 for the maximum number of exceedances above who guidelines, but these targets would not have been binding on member states. it also called for the preparation of short-term action plans to deal with acute problems and for more public information and health alerts. during the course of the past two years, parliament has been able to use its codecision powers to give this legislation some teeth. we have strengthened the public's right to information. we have made it easier for recalcitrant countries to be named and shamed into improving their performance. we have ensured that damage to materials is included amongst the criteria for consideration. we have re-emphasised our wish to see long-term reductions in ozone levels achieved by 2020 in line with the national emissions ceilings directive proposals. but above all, we have addressed the issue of the non-binding short-term targets. instead of member states having to work to achieve these "as far as possible", which was the original proposal, we have insisted that effective measures shall be taken unless the targets cannot be achieved by "proportionate measures". i want to emphasise that we agreed this wording because both the commission and our own legal services advised us that it would make the provisions of the directive enforceable and that member states could be taken to the european court of justice if they failed to take such measures. in other words, we have used our codecision powers to transform a statement of good intent into a legally binding commitment. even so, the european environmental bureau has criticised us, asking: "why do we need a directive at all if the 2010 targets are not fully binding?" but this misunderstands the nature of ozone pollution. it is hugely transboundary. while peak exceedances are falling across europe, the average level is continuing to rise, almost certainly as a result of pollution generated far from our shores. i do not believe that spain, or italy, or germany, or any of us should face the prospect of legal sanctions because they are being polluted from china. that would not be fair and it would not be realistic. i want member states here to be required to do all that they can realistically to meet the targets, no more and no less. i think that "palpable brown air" gave a lot of character to the story of scrooge. but it is not appropriate now. perhaps i will ask my daughter, kate, if she will write a 21st-century version featuring clean air. however, with the assistance of the commission and the last belgian presidency, parliament has been able in the meantime to use its negotiating powers to turn a simple wish list into a requirement for our various governments to take action which will significantly improve air quality across europe. we have secured greater changes and a more ambitious directive than we could reasonably have expected when the draft was first proposed. we can be proud of what we have achieved.
mr president, i hope we can get agreement on the sixth environmental action programme, preferably without going into conciliation. i would like, on behalf of the committee, to thank mrs müller for the immense amount of work she has put into this report. i underline my support for the amount of work she has done because i actually disagree with many of the conclusions she has come to. nevertheless, we have dealt with this matter so extensively that we will probably not gain anything by extending the process to the full beauties of late-night conciliation in brussels. the amendments tabled by the committee and the rapporteur do not really add up to anything of substance and, where they do, the results would probably be to damage the chances of success of the environmental action programme. i draw your attention to amendment no 11, which is already out of date. i would criticise, as mr bernié has done, the reliance of the rapporteur to a considerable extent on jargon. old war horses are trotted out again and given one more exhausted run around the course. the chemical industry is focused on as the villain of the piece and the substitution principle makes a well-earned reappearance in the amendments that the committee has asked the house to consider. the assumption of at least amendment no 1 – and to some extent amendment no 30 – is that the substitution principle exists as a fully worked-out concept. it does not. it is an amalgam of assumptions and suspicions fudged together by the green movement as a universal panacea. the amendments talk of this as a fully worked-out policy, but we should at least be consistent. the schörling report, which we voted on a few months ago, called on the commission to produce a definition of the substitution policy principle, so we can hardly deal with it now as though it really is in existence. do we need a sixth environmental action programme? i do not share the cynicism and despair of some in the eldr group. some sort of route map or check list is helpful and desirable. the commission probably built on previous mistakes by attaching so much weight to the idea of a programme. the poor commissioner wanted a slim programme and has ended up with a fatty! i also regret – and she may regret – the submission of the programme to full codecision because that has certainly lengthened the process without adding to the substance. the best part of the environmental action programme for me is the concentration on better implementation. in the old days we wanted an action programme in order to put pressure on the council to agree to legislation. now the trouble is that the council does agree to legislation and then does very little about it. without better implementation we are deceiving the people of europe into believing that things are getting better and better, in the words of the old labour party advertisement. just as at home in uk things are not getting better and better, the words remain easy to say but they are often not followed by action and it is up to us to see that they are.
mr president, i have a speech here, but i must admit that mrs jackson has rather distracted me into thinking about how things get better and better after you reach a certain age. clearly mrs jackson has reached that certain age and she now thinks everything in the past better than it is now. like mrs jackson, i also wish to thank the rapporteur for her good work. this document is worth voting for, but it would be more worthwhile voting for if it contained a few more of parliament's amendments. in the field of chemicals policy, the field of preserving biodiversity, climate change, transport and the protection of air and water quality, there are clear and worthwhile proposals that could be built upon in the conciliation process. in the field of fiscal policy, there are some serious and sensible suggestions in parliament's amendments. however, the setting at the moment of any kind of european-wide environmental taxes must be better thought out. at the moment it is like taking a sledgehammer to crack a whole series of very different nuts, with what i would guess would be very limited success. we must now as a parliament unite and tomorrow morning take the next step into conciliation, where we are going to have to work together with a view to achieving a common viewpoint to the way in which we are going to protect the environment of our common european home and preserve it for future generations. i look forward to taking that step tomorrow morning and to the christian democrats helping us to do so.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy. – mr president, while there are certainly elements worthy of praise in the green paper, overall we are left with the impression of a lost political opportunity. the commission has strong institutional powers, which it could use to actively drive the ipp process. too often we are left with the impression of a commission that is a spectator rather than a powerful actor. we also need more joined-up thinking, more explicit connections between the ipp project, the sixth environmental action programme and the strategy for sustainable development. we would like to see those links made much more explicit. to summarise a number of the other concerns raised by the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, we believe that the strategy tends to rely too heavily on voluntary agreements. they clearly have a role to play, but they are not a substitute for regulation; they should be seen as complementary to it. at the very least we need very clear benchmarks, objectives and timetables for any voluntary agreements so that we can ensure that they are working. the green paper also focuses almost exclusively on products rather than services and therefore misses another whole raft of potential opportunities to green an increasingly large area of our economies. perhaps one of the major shortcomings of the paper is its insufficient awareness of the broader international trade context, under which, unfortunately, some of its proposals would have questionable legality. the effectiveness of the ipp strategy will be severely curtailed unless the commission explicitly recognises the reforms that would be needed to the world trade organisation in particular, to enable its measures to be set out. similarly, with respect to public procurement, greening public procurement is vitally important but there are currently obstacles in achieving that which should have been acknowledged more explicitly in the paper, along with strategies to address the problem. it is very significant that in its opinion the committee of the regions specifically refers to the restricted scope of local and regional authorities for action when it comes to green procurement and notes that legal action has already been taken against a number of towns and cities which have tried to implement a green procurement policy. those are the kinds of areas that need to be changed. we look forward to an ambitious new white paper in the near future.
mr president, i join my colleagues in congratulating mr alyssandrakis on his report on the commission communication to the council and parliament on europe and space: turning to a new chapter. this is not the first report that mr alyssandrakis has drawn up on the subject of space and, i suspect, not the last. the socialist group will be supporting the report. we believe that space has important civil and industrial applications. europe cannot afford to be sidelined. europe cannot afford to allow the us and the other space powers – russia, china and japan – to leave us behind. we need to develop further the technological basis of space activities, in particular launchers, to move eventually to european independence. on the way to european independence we may have to work with those trying to catch up with the us's enormous lead. we therefore welcome the statement in the report that space research is one of the priority themes for the sixth framework programme for research and development. europe, unless it gets an unequivocal agreement with the united states that it can have access on all occasions to the gsp system, will have to work with others inside and outside the european union, in industry and government, to develop its own independent system. we can support the amendment from mr chichester to the effect that we can include military applications for peacekeeping purposes. at the same time we support the rapporteur's own amendment, amendment no 5, which deplores the us withdrawal from the anti-ballistic missile treaty and deplores the development of national missile defence, which we believe will trigger a new arms race in east asia. to make our position absolutely clear, we are also willing, if amendment no 1 is passed, to support the rapporteur's amendment no 2, to the effect that we believe space should be used to create peace rather than conflict. we do not see these as contradictory but rather as establishing a limit beyond which we do not wish to go. i hope that in the vote tomorrow we achieve what we intend, as i have set it out this evening.
i would like to add my congratulations to the rapporteur and to focus on just one key issue in the short time that i have, namely the dangers of the militarisation of space. many european citizens are deeply critical of the proposed us national missile defence system, which they rightly see as an offensive system which is certain to start a new and costly international arms race. how much more concerned would they be if they realised the aims of some of their own politicians and legislators? i do not mean people here, but there are others who have ambitions to launch their very own, home-grown european union programme to militarise space. that is what some people would like to turn the european space programme into. we need to send a very clear message with this report, to make it absolutely clear that any use of space should be solely undertaken for peaceful purposes and in accordance with international law. i therefore welcome in particular the emphasis which mr alyssandrakis has given to this in his report and appreciate the amendments he has tabled to strengthen these aspects still further. it follows that i also very much regret the amendments by the ppe group, which again introduces that idea of using space for military applications. although i accept that this has been put in the context of what are called peacekeeping operations, i am still concerned that this is the start of a slippery slope. i am very happy that mr radwan does not want to see an eu star wars, but i am very concerned that his intentions could be misinterpreted: that other people could see peacekeeping in a different context from the one that he sees it in. we need to remember as well the context of the report released by the european space agency in december 2000 in which the so-called three wise men looked into the future of esa and concluded and i quote: "embarking on development of a european defence system, including a space component, will provide a significant part of european public investment." that report went on to say: "we see it as logical to use the capabilities of esa also for the development of more security-orientated aspects of european space policy." all this adds up to the very real possibility that the european space policy will adopt a very specific military component and therefore it is timely and urgent to send a message with this report that we want to keep space for peace.
mr president, i add my compliments to mr alyssandrakis for his report and the work that he brings to this particular field of our committee's activities. my first observation is that the use of space for research and for commercial applications is often overlooked in the wider world because it is not as dramatically exciting as projects like the apollo moon landings, yet it is extremely important, as this report emphasises. i welcome the objectives set out in the communication for european policy. i confess i particularly like paragraph 10, which calls on the industry to do more about commercial exploitation of space. that is an important way ahead. we want industry to be very much involved in the exploitation of space. it seems to me that this report is something of an appetiser – or hors d'oeuvre – for the galileo report, which we will be considering next month in our strasbourg part-session. paragraph 12 in particular refers to galileo as being part of the european strategy and to its importance for transport. we should take careful note of that. we have to recognise the difficulties in obtaining funding for space exploitation, space research, space utilisation. i particularly welcome also the reference in the report to the need for international cooperation drawing in other powers and partners. i come back to the question of using military applications for peacekeeping operations. to be realistic, we need funding from defence budgets for space projects in a number of fields. we should not be frightened of drawing on that source of funding for applications intended for peacekeeping. that is very important to emphasise. i regret that mr alyssandrakis has taken fright at my reference to military applications. he should take more note of the phrase "peacekeeping operations".
mr president, firstly i should like to congratulate our three rapporteurs – mr hatzidakis, mr van dam and mr grosch – for the work they have done. the level of knowledge of the members of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism never ceases to amaze me, in regard to technical details such as the number of axles on buses, turning circles of buses, and so on and so forth. i am grateful to them for their work. as far as the pse group is concerned, in relation to mr hatzidakis' report, we are happy with the common position and the same goes for mr van dam's report. we will be voting accordingly. regarding mr grosch's report, i welcome the directive because it recognises that we now have an opportunity to improve road safety. working conditions for drivers have direct economic but also safety implications. by proposing a training regime for professional drivers we will be enhancing the status of those drivers. it is also important to recognise that in light of enlargement these provisions will have to be incorporated into legislation by the candidate countries. i know many member states include driver education in their basic education system, but for those that do not, this directive will make it possible for all drivers to receive proper training. the issue of subsidiarity was raised in committee and indeed is raised again in plenary through a number of amendments. my group believes that the compromise position that we reached in committee, with the help of our rapporteur, mr grosch, enables the directive to offer mere guidelines and therefore negates the need for subsidiarity. my group will therefore be voting against most amendments that advocate this principle and in support of the rapporteur's position. we will also vote in favour of amendment no 43, which proposes an assessment of the effectiveness of this directive and vote against other amendments that try to be too prescriptive. we are, in short, agreeing with the rapporteur. i thank all the rapporteurs for their work and congratulate them all on producing three well-balanced reports.
mr president, these proposals for the training of heavy goods vehicle drivers are, like much of the legislation adopted by this house, totally unnecessary. all we need is the mutual recognition of national qualifications, possibly underpinned by a loose framework directive, to ensure minimum standards, especially with regard to third-country nationals. however, what we have is a typical piece of eu legislation: intrusive, prescriptive, vastly expensive. it is a christmas tree on which we have hung our wish list of expensive baubles. environmental issues are important, but they have no bearing on the ability to drive a truck. the proposals for training on a healthy diet have already attracted widespread ridicule in the british press. asking the british trucker to give up his sausage and eggs is like inviting the pope to a disco – it simply makes us look absurd. but we are inviting worse than ridicule. in the uk alone these proposals are estimated by the industry to cost over eur 200m a year in a business already under great stress. the time commitment for training required of the individual owner-operator is unsustainable and will drive hundreds out of business. in this house we constantly pay lip service to the needs of smes, yet again and again we ignore their concerns. we talk about the problem of unemployment, then we pass directives that destroy jobs. these proposals form part of a concerted attack by the commission on the road haulage industry. i should declare an interest: my stepson is a truck driver and he and his colleagues are aghast at these proposals. i have studied them in vain for a realistic business impact assessment. we are looking at huge costs, huge damage to the industry – especially to small businesses – and huge damage to european competitiveness. a further impediment to the achievement of the lisbon objectives, and all for what? for benefits which at best are vague and speculative. i urge colleagues to reject the grosch report. let us stand back for a moment and consider the huge damage we do as we create a torrent of onerous and unnecessary legislation.
mr president, i would firstly like to thank the rapporteur for the enormous amount of work he has put into this document and for the information that is in it. however, i am disappointed that he is so pessimistic, both looking back to the past and forward to the future. of course i support some of his criticisms: too much paperwork, a lack of decision-making, slow delivery times and a lack of capacity in developing countries. this has given rise to frustration, but commissioner nielson is tackling these problems with some vigour. i am much more optimistic than the rapporteur. i believe the cotonou accord is the right path. lomé had its faults. but it was a unique concept and much good work was done. the new partnership agreement is based on the right principles, enhancing the old lomé convention. the theme of poverty alleviation must be right. the only question is how best to implement it. there is much discussion on project finance versus budget support. should we be using multilateral aid or bilateral aid? i strongly support multilateral aid backed up by bilateral aid where it can complement a project. i do not believe that project aid has failed. the problem has been the under-capacity of countries to continue projects once they were completed by the european union. i am equally not yet convinced that budget support can be controlled tightly enough in many developing countries and fear that it will open the door to corruption. i believe it is the new factors in the cotonou accord that will have the most influence: the political dimension, the emphasis on good governance, conflict prevention and resolution, the interaction with civil society, the regional approach to strengthen trade and the parliamentary element of the joint assembly. all these are elements that should strengthen the partnership. all this has changed my role as co-president in the last year. i certainly have played a more political role in the past year, discussing, for instance, conflict resolution and good governance with president taylor in liberia, or having discussions on the zimbabwe situation with the presidents of botswana, malawi and mozambique, and hearing and seeing the effects on their countries. all this depends on an effective commission, with properly funded and staffed delegations. most of the ones i have seen are extremely badly serviced at the moment for lack of funds and the petty paperwork they have to handle. this is parliament's fault. we must urge all countries to ratify the agreement, as mrs dybkjær has said, to allow the ninth edf to come into force. this partnership has to work. if we really wish to see an end to economic migration and terrorism in the world, we must provide a standard of living in developing countries which persuades people to stay and work there.
mr president, i welcome the report by mr rod and i agree with him that the renewal of the framework agreement governing cooperation between the eu and acp states is best considered against the backdrop of the challenges posed by globalisation, economic liberalisation and the european commission's reform of external assistance. indeed, over 18 months after the signing at cotonou, we can now begin to assess the agreement by looking at the actual progress made in bringing it to life. first, despite its strengths, in one particular aspect at least the previous lomé agreement fell short, that is in the fight against poverty. i very much welcome the promotion of poverty eradication as one of the core aims of the new partnership agreement, but we must ensure that this is also reflected in the commission's programming through its country strategy papers. i regret to say that the strategy papers reviewed so far show the transport sector receiving 35% and macroeconomic support 25% of all programmable resources. in the committee on development and cooperation we have on countless occasions stressed the need to plough resources into basic health and basic education if we are serious about poverty reduction. it is right to stress this point again tonight. the second crucial change from lomé concerns civil society participation. what sort of results can we expect after hearing reports that civil society has not yet been involved in a genuine and meaningful way? i am disappointed to see that out of a possible 15%, only 2% of resources have been allocated to capacity building in the country strategy papers drawn up so far. was this because civil society organisations were not consulted or because civil society has such a low absorption rate? the cotonou agreement stipulates that civil society participation should come from the bottom up, yet without the capacity this is impossible. finally, in pointing out some of the practical challenges that lie ahead, i would not and do not want to denigrate the huge achievement of the negotiation and signing of the agreement in the first place. the eu-acp partnership remains a model for north-south cooperation in our world and one which we celebrate properly in our vote for ratification in the european parliament this week.
mr president, i should like to draw your attention to the continuing deterioration of the situation in zimbabwe. last friday zimbabwean ministers had a meeting with eu representatives and they have been asked to write a letter or a report by tomorrow on improvements in the situation in zimbabwe. in fact, over the last week things have continued to deteriorate. it is very important that the international community should show that it really means business by bringing mugabe's regime in zimbabwe to task. we need to be preparing smart sanctions now. i urge you to ensure that the council and the commission take a uniformly tough line on zimbabwe before it is too late. presidential elections will be held there on 9 march and time is running out.
mr president, i should like to take up a point mrs mckenna raised yesterday concerning electronic voting and the secret ballot. it is unhappily the case that the secret ballot arrangement by electronic voting is imperfect at the moment. it is imperfect because, even when one uses the device mentioned by mrs jackson yesterday of a paper to cover the screen, it is easy for one's colleagues behind and beside to see how one voted. when a secret ballot is important, members should be protected from peer-group pressure. i would therefore like you to refer to the bureau the question of whether the electronic voting system can be improved in order to really function as a secret ballot and protect members from those pressures from which they ought to be protected.
mr president, on a point of order. may i ask you to ask the president of this parliament to note that a vote took place here yesterday for a full inquiry into foot-and-mouth disease in the united kingdom. the vote for that was carried because the british labour government refused my constituents an inquiry into that terrible disease. in this parliament yesterday the british socialists … (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, the review of the common fisheries policy gives us a chance to guide the future of fisheries in the european union over the next ten years and we have to get this right. the cfp has not yet achieved what it set out to achieve, and that is a sustainable fisheries sector. instead we have a situation where our fish stocks have been depleted and our seas polluted, while our technological capacity to fish has increased beyond recognition. the cornerstone of the new cfp has to be environmental and economic sustainability. one way of achieving this is to recognise the cfp's regional dimension. we should increase industry involvement in fisheries management and conservation, allowing for an improvement of dialogue between fishermen and scientists. sustainability means that we have to take the environmental dimension of fisheries management seriously. however, this has to be coupled with clearer procedures for responding quickly to conservation emergencies. we should retain the principle of relative stability, but also ensure greater effectiveness and consistency in the control and enforcement of eu requirements, while attempting to simplify the burden of control on fishermen. as we know there are still weaknesses in inspection and control, and the inspection structure and coordinated approach must be welcomed. however, the use of uniform penalty procedures will require careful examination. the area of fisheries agreements which mr lannoye talked about also needs to be reviewed. development considerations, poverty reduction and environmental impact are key considerations. there have been many examples where local fishermen in some of the world's poorest areas can no longer fish. when they cannot fish, they do not eat. reform is essential. a lot has to be done in a very short time, but there is too much at stake for it to fail. i hope that this time next year, when we return for the first part-session in 2003, we will see a newly reformed cfp fit for the future.
mr president, when it is normal practice to congratulate rapporteurs on their work, it is difficult to find appropriate words to use when something exceptional has been achieved. so i shall say simply that it is a tribute to the work of mrs miguélez ramos that a report that attracted over 400 amendments at the committee stage has come to plenary with only 25 to be considered. before dealing with the nature of the substantive motion for a resolution, i want to touch briefly on the amendments by my own group. amendments nos 3, 4 and 5 look to the international level. amendment no 3 seeks common definitions and methodology in respect of fisheries subsidies and fishing capacity and effort and the interrelationship between them. amendments nos 4 and 5 are designed to improve the monitoring both of the cost-effectiveness of fisheries agreements with third countries and of fishing activities conducted in the context thereof. amendment no 6 seeks only to soften the wording of recital h because of doubts that the cfp can actually guarantee those working in the sector living conditions comparable to those in other production sectors, although it should certainly assist in this respect. finally, amendment no 7 wishes merely to add recreational sea angling to the areas to which, along with deep-sea and coastal fishing and aquaculture, separate attention needs to be given. we hope that these amendments will meet with the approval of the house. more generally, we believe that the motion for a resolution has achieved a commendable balance between the demands of fishing as an economic activity and the need for conservation. in sustaining the principle of relative stability, and the six- to twelve-mile limit, it recognises the fragility of fisheries-dependent communities. in endorsing a move to multiannual and multi-species quotas, it promotes an approach to fisheries management that is better for the industry and the environment alike. it also addresses other issues of environmental concern, such as shark finning and the bycatch of citations. further, it takes serious note of our responsibilities towards the developing world. another of the aspects dear to my own heart is the move towards establishing a far greater input into the decision-making process by fishermen, scientists and conservationists. i add, with a touch of pride, that this is an approach pioneered in my own constituency, with the involvement of organisations such as the scottish fisherman's federation, the shetland oceans alliance and the world wildlife fund. the number of amendments at committee showed how many different and often conflicting views there can be where fisheries issues are concerned. the final report demonstrates just how well we in this house can manage to reconcile our differences. i hope that, as voted later today, it will remain something of which parliament as a whole, the committee on fisheries in particular, and mrs miguélez ramos, despite her modesty and her own personal reservations, can be justifiably proud.
mr president, in my country secret cabinet papers are released 30 years after the discussions to which they refer took place. as a result, over the last two years, previously secret papers on the negotiations leading up to britain's entry to the then common market have been released and we have been able to see documents relating to the establishment of the common fisheries policy. it transpires from these documents that, at its inception, there was no legal basis for the cfp. furthermore, ministers knew this; they were prepared to, and did, lie to the british public about this, despite the certain knowledge that the policy would be a disaster for the fishing industry, but fishermen were regarded as being politically expendable. they were sacrificed to ensure that the timetable for british entry was kept on track. since then, the expected disaster has materialised in the form of tens of thousands of fishing and fishing-related jobs lost, financial losses approaching £1 bn for every year of the cfp and a fleet in terminal decline. the cfp is also a disaster on a technical level. in a 1997 report the parliamentary research service noted that the only examples of successful management systems were to be found in the falkland islands, iceland, namibia and new zealand, where fisheries fall within a single jurisdiction. there is no example of a common fisheries policy ever working effectively, so the cfp is fatally flawed by virtue of the fact that it is a common policy. to this green paper and the report by mrs miguélez ramos, therefore, i and my party can respond that the cfp was built on lies and that technically it is a shambles. it represents all that is wrong with the european union and we believe that it, like the eu, should be abolished with immediate effect – reform is not an option.
mr president, this green paper comes at a time when the eu is confronted with dwindling stocks, over-capacity and ineffective and over-centralised management. the review is an opportunity not only rectify shortcomings but also to preserve crucial provisions which are worthwhile and necessary for the survival of europe's fragile fisheries-dependent communities. we must preserve the six- and twelve- mile zones at least. we must continue with special conservation areas like the shetland box and support historic fishing rights through the fundamental principle of relative stability. the common goal of conserving stocks for future generations remains the most important objective of the cfp. it is imperative that the promotion of sustainable fisheries and the needs of fisheries-dependent communities are kept to the fore. the report paves the way for decentralisation and the commission must set out a comprehensive form of zonal management, delivered through zonal management committees. i stress the word "management". the fishing industry, the processors, the scientists and ngos must all be actively involved and their expertise utilised to ensure that the new cfp ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i wish to begin by welcoming the report and congratulating the rapporteur. i think we all recognise the tremendous difficulty involved in coming forward with this report. there are probably things in it that not everyone likes. however, in the circumstances it is probably the best that could be achieved as we try to reform the cfp. we have to ask ourselves what the european union wants to achieve in reforming of the common fisheries policy. the one thing we can say for certain is that the present common fisheries policy is not one of the best-loved policies of the union, and there is certainly no guarantee that future changes will endear any future policy to the industry, especially given the pressure on fish stocks and the differing views of scientists and fishermen. however, the opportunity is there to be seized and we have to ask whether we can get things right this time. can we achieve a proper balance? are we in a position to respond to the needs of the industry and respond in time? the problems of the industry have built up a great degree of resentment. we have heard here today that there are those who would love to scrap the common fisheries policy and hand it back to national and regional governments. that will not put any more fish in the sea or solve any more problems. fish are migratory: they do not stay in one place all the time, year after year. so while such a move sounds easy – and to some it sounds very good – we have to ask a number of questions. would renationalisation mean any more fish? i do not think so. would it mean more financial support? i would suggest that it might result in even less financial support to the industry, and markets would not improve. so we have to find an acceptable position. i have to say bluntly to the commission that if it cannot get the policy right in the next four to five years, then it will be forced to hand it back to national governments. we have an opportunity to get it right. the commission has to involve local fishermen, local areas and local people if it really wants to get it right. i would certainly support that – but there has to be meaningful consultation.
rapporteur. – mr president, my one-minute allocation in the previous debate did not give me enough time to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs miguélez ramos, for the work she did and the manner in which she did that work. i would suggest that the subject of this report also illustrates the need for reform of the common fisheries policy. in other words, if we had a successful fisheries management system in the european union, then perhaps we would not need emergency measures to safeguard declining stocks in this fashion. but we do. these plans seek to restore stocks of cod and hake to sustainable levels. but they also have socio-economic implications, not only for those who fish cod and hake, but also for fishermen whose livelihood depends on stocks associated with either of these fisheries. this report emphasises, therefore, a number of key concerns: there should be no broad-brush approach; there must be accurate scientific advice, the impact of industrial fisheries must be recognised; there must be adequate funding; and accessible diversification programmes should be available. the commission itself admits that it has not relied solely on scientific advice and that there is a general lack of scientific advice for assessing long-term recovery plans. the commission's own words are telling. i remain unconvinced that scientific advice is sound enough to earn the confidence of the fishermen affected by these measures. the commission believes that the major problem of scientific advice is black landings. i have no doubt that so-called black fish landings do have a negative impact on statistics. but that points to inherent flaws in the current management system. surely discards are a bigger problem, perhaps the major impact? the report therefore stresses the importance of properly funded and precise scientific advice. it also calls for the idea of observers to be extended to ensure that scientists observe actively on fishing vessels. this should also help to instil confidence in technical measures. the commission states that with regard to the north sea closures of last spring it was aware that the effort displaced from the area closed to protect cod would create increased pressure on other stocks. the commission does not, however, address the extent to which this impact could have proven disastrous, had it not been for the responsible action of scottish fishermen, for example, who voluntarily tied up at their own cost. i put it to the commission that the issue of displaced fishing effort was not properly thought through and that potential displacement must be properly assessed in future closures, with the benefits of closure balanced against the detrimental knock-on effects. in welcoming the commitment to tie-up schemes by the commission, i note that it is not only encouraging compensated tie-up, but also removing the current ceilings on financial contributions. i am deeply concerned, though, that funding is not applied equitably amongst fishermen affected by such measures. if fishermen are willing to take responsible action themselves, when going to sea could risk further stock decimation, there must be some mechanism that allows them to do so without going bankrupt. i strongly urge members to support both the amendments in the vote today. the first asks the commission not to neglect the specific needs of mixed fisheries, whilst the second calls for measures to encourage environmentally-friendly and smaller-scale fisheries. finally, i also call for the deletion of paragraph 7, which not only is an open attack on small-scale fisheries, but also a ringing endorsement of the promotion of large-scale industrial fisheries which, i contend, is unacceptable. in conclusion, we have to strike a balance here between the need to advance the recovery of stocks and the need to avoid disproportionate restrictions on the many different fisheries affected and the resultant negative consequences for those whose livelihood depends on the sea. to this end i call on the commission to take on board the recommendations of this report and to ensure that the fishing industry and scientists are fully involved. in this respect would it not make sense to bring about the early introduction of zonal management committees and allow them to take forward recovery plans in a proactive rather than a reactive way? i hope that this afternoon members will support this report and its amendments.
mr president, i wish to add my congratulations to the rapporteur on an excellent and timely report. in my earlier speech i was unable to take the time to do so. i should like to wish the commissioner well. we could perhaps have a cheap go at him this morning for not being here but, if he is not well, we wish him a speedy recovery. unlike mr cunha i cannot offer him a remedy for a speedy recovery, but a hot irish whiskey is not bad for the flu either. i should like to say that this report addresses many current concerns in the fisheries sector and certainly rebuilding the stocks of cod and hake is going to be a tremendous challenge. we have to face the reality that this is going to be extremely difficult to achieve. that is the one thing that we have learned recently. but the truth is that it has to be achieved if we want to maintain stocks in our seas. we have to do everything the rapporteur has outlined: increase net size, bring in square mesh panels and recognise, above all, that we must face up to the problems created by discards. this is something that has not been faced up to. we have paid lip service to it but have not been able to resolve the problem. protection of juveniles is equally important and must be one of our priorities. we must have improved scientific information: there can be no broad-brush approach, as has been said. in my area in the irish sea we now face, for the third year running, the closure of the fishing area for six weeks. there is greater willingness among fishermen to cooperate with the authorities and the european union to achieve the recovery of stocks. i have to ask the commission one question: does it really feel in all honesty that it has responded to the fishermen in this area? i have to say that it cannot bring in closures and tie-ups to help recovery without compensation, as this will not work. i would say to the commission that it is not myself, the rapporteur or any members in this house with an interest in fisheries, but rather the fishermen who are out there working, trying to make a living and trying to survive in very difficult circumstances who need convincing of the need for this. the commission will not obtain their cooperation unless they are given the support they require.
mr president, i would like to thank the house for having this debate during a prime morning session – normally our debates are at midnight! long may this continue. the commission communication on the rebuilding of cod and hake stocks is a critical issue for those involved in the industry in scotland. i would like to pay particular attention to the issue of cod. scientific advice for many years has been stark. it tells us that various stocks are so far outside safe biological limits that major initiatives are now urgently required to stabilise the decline. thus some form of action must be taken as a matter of urgency. firstly, there is the proposal that fishing effort should be reduced by up to 40 to 50%. this is ambitious and begs thorough consideration, working alongside all other member states. elements of fleet reduction are being achieved through decommissioning of vessels. in scotland the labour-led coalition has committed over gbp 25 million to such a decommissioning scheme. in fact, the first boats began decommissioning last week. secondly, additional technical measures have been introduced to improve the selectivity of gear. thirdly, new monitoring measures have been proposed. the issue of closed areas and possible real-time closures have also been considered and, in some cases, introduced in order to allow for the regeneration of stocks. the need for action on cod recovery is paramount if there is to be a cod fishery at all. we need only look at newfoundland and canada to see the consequences of overfishing. even today the cod have not returned. however, there are other factors at play. global warming and the linked heating of our oceans are also considerations. we should never forget the key link between the environmental decisions that we make in this house and the consequences that these have for the sustainability of our seas. in conclusion, all stakeholders, the european institutions, member state governments and the fishing industry must be involved if any of these measures are to be successful. an effective stock recovery programme is essential for the future of cod fisheries in scotland and the uk.
mr president, mr cunha said earlier that the best cure for commissioner fischler's flu would be to eat portuguese cod. i thoroughly agree with that, so long as it is washed down with copious quantities of scotch whisky. i welcome the terms of mr lavarra's report, but i would like to ask for support from this house for the two amendments by my danish colleague, mr busk. mr busk is quite rightly concerned that the rapporteur has taken a rather negative attitude to industrial fishing, which, as we know, is a mainstay of the danish fishing industry. the committee on fisheries recently visited denmark and met key people involved in industrial fisheries. again, yesterday, there was a seminar here in strasbourg organised by the intergroup on sustainable development, which heard all sides of the debate for and against industrial fishing. it is quite clear that there are many and widespread misconceptions regarding this sector and it is important that this house corrects these misconceptions. firstly, it is worth pointing out that the sandeel fishery is a clean fishery: by-catch is relatively unusual and where, on occasion, there have been well-publicised cases of juvenile haddock or other by-catch being landed by danish industrial trawlers, these cases have been brought to our attention because denmark has an effective inspection and monitoring regime with very strict discipline and very stringent punishments for offenders. secondly, as indicated by mr busk in his amendments, the tac for sandeel has actually been reduced by the council this year to 850 000 tonnes, against scientific evidence which stated that we could take over a million tonnes. only 25% of the sandeel biomass is being fished. compare that to the 75% of the cod biomass that we exploit in the north sea. so if anyone is guilty of overfishing, it is certainly not the sandeel fishery in denmark. they have also invested a lot of money in getting dioxins out of oil, fish oils and fishmeal, which is a product of the sandeel fishery. we must support the danish fishing sector in this case, and that is why i ask this house to support mr busk's two amendments.
mr president, i should like to congratulate you on the very calm and efficient way in which you chaired that vote. it augurs well. however, there is hardly any other parliament which would have voted that number of amendments to a report. few members in this house can have been expected to know what they were voting on. they are at the mercy of their colleagues and the whips. the procedure does little to enhance democracy and it is an unedifying and indeed incomprehensible spectacle for citizens who are following our work. (applause) i urge you, in your term in office, to ensure a thorough reform of the decision-making procedures of this assembly. (applause)
mr president, i welcome what mr watson has just said and point out that you can make an early contribution to securing a reform of our procedures by placing my report on the agenda of the march part-session. then some progress might be made on some of the points that have been raised by mr watson. even if i have no miracle solution we could take some steps forward. (applause)
mr president, we were indeed suggesting that as a parliament we are looking for reform of this institution. i do not think going on beyond 1.30 p.m. is a reform. we should break at this stage and take the votes that remain at 5 p.m. this evening.
in writing. - (en) every effort was made to stick as far as possible to the line proposed by the pse, given that the original report had great difficulties in committee and conflicting national interests were at stake. in all the cases where the labour group's vote in the european parliament differs from the pse's line, the reasons for this choice are linked to the desire to remain consistent with the uk government's negotiating position on the future of the cfp. the vote of the labour party in the european parliament differs from the line of the pse on the following points: recital b, amendments nos 6, 24, 17 and 16, paragraphs 20, 12, 26 (original text), 45-47, 60, 64, 67, 68, 72, 73, 82, 84 and 91, amendment no 5 (part 2), amendment no 3 and paragraphs 119 and 120.
madam president, on a point of order. i would like to draw to the house's attention the action of levi strauss, the jeans manufacturer, which is today closing two of its scottish plants. 650 scots, mostly women, face the prospect tonight of losing their jobs and their livelihoods. local politicians and trade unions are calling for meetings with the company. the lack of information and consultation by this company is quite a disgrace, showing more clearly the importance of proper information and consultation legislation prior to such a decision being announced. i would ask this house to show solidarity in supporting the workforce in dundee and bellshill and the families who have been affected by this decision today. i ask the president of parliament to write to levi strauss to ask why it is shedding so many european jobs and why it has not properly consulted its workforce.
madam president, we welcome this initiative as another small step along the road towards fulfilling the tampere mandate to make the principle of mutual recognition the cornerstone of judicial cooperation. it is right that within a developing area of freedom, security and justice member states ought to begin laying the foundations for establishing trust in each other's legal systems. we need an eu legislative initiative to facilitate efficient cross-border cooperation and improve upon previous international legal instruments, which are often cumbersome and bureaucratic. indeed, the 1991 convention on the enforcement of criminal sentences – which otherwise would be relevant here – is not yet in force some ten years after it was signed. it is right for the eu to base cooperation on the concept of executing the decision of the issuing state, rather than that of deciding whether or not to grant cooperation in response to a request. the other international convention – the 1970 convention – contains 13 grounds on which a request can be refused, so we can understand why the system does not work at the moment. however, many of us in this house are concerned not to allow the principle of mutual recognition to undermine the rights of the individual and in this field generally it is essential that the legal safeguards outlined not only in the european convention on human rights but also, i would say to mr blokland, in the eu charter of fundamental rights – which ought to be legally enforceable – should be observed. my group would certainly agree with mrs cerdeira morterero that we should use the existing system of contact points in the european judicial network, as it is pointless to keep reinventing the wheel with different systems of contact points for various initiatives. however, we have a core problem here: people who care about civil liberties – and here i include myself – are put on the spot about agreeing to measures of mutual recognition without having a comprehensive programme to raise the standard of observance of individual rights. my group believes that we need a comprehensive approach to this, and we are very much looking forward to the commission white paper on this subject. i have been reproached for agreeing to the european arrest warrant, while very strongly supporting individual rights. it is a challenge to all of us – parliament, the commission and the council – to put in place those safeguards, because it is difficult to keep on agreeing until we have them. but my group believes that, with the eurosceptics of the right objecting to any cooperation in this field, we have to say that those of us who are not on the right, who care about civil liberties, should agree to these measures but then put pressure on the commission and the council to have these citizens' safeguards.
-madam president, i congratulate mrs kauppi on this report. i have to admit that representing london i do not have too many fishermen in my constituency and i am delighted to be able to put forward a few comments on behalf of mrs scallon who, unfortunately, cannot be here today as she has a pressing engagement. she has followed this dossier very carefully because of the large fishing industry in her constituency in ireland. i should like to pass on her and my thanks to the commission for focusing on this important issue. when speaking to stakeholders in this industry, mrs scallon found that they were very concerned about the concept of flagging out, which was one of the root causes of the sharp decline in eu seafarers and the increase in the use of third-country ratings and junior officers. eu crew members suffer a severe competitive disadvantage; with their working conditions of working one week on, one week off with full pay on passenger ferries, they find it very difficult to compete with non-eu crew members working nine months on, and one month off without pay. as a result, there are few training places available for eu junior officers and ratings and, sadly, redundancy is being offered to many in this industry in the eu. in line with many of the points highlighted in the report, mrs scallon heard that there was concern regarding the lower standard of eu training and the possible danger to public safety that might be caused by language difficulties with multilingual crews, where no translation was available. both mrs scallon and i would definitely like to see more training places available if we are to stop this decline. experienced seafarers are also ideal for other temporary, onshore work off-season in areas such as recruitment, training, freight forwarding, insurance and arbitration. as part of the suggested awareness campaign, we should also look at the possibility of funding the promotion of seafaring at secondary-school level. mrs scallon closed by remarking that it was sad that even in the fishing villages of her own country, seafaring, rowing and sailing were not subjects which played a great part in the curriculum. that is something that we both regret.
commission. – madam president, on behalf of my colleague i would like to start by saying that the review of capital adequacy is an extremely significant project forming part of the commission's financial services action plan. the aim is, as mentioned, to modernise the existing capital requirements for banks and investment firms. this will lead to significant benefits within the european financial services markets in terms of increased efficiency and enhanced competition, while at the same time improving financial stability through prudential requirements that are both more comprehensive and more sensitive to the risks faced by these institutions. the european review is taking place in parallel with the review by the basle committee on banking supervision of capital requirements for internationally active banks. before going on to specific questions, let me mention that excellent progress has been made but the review is still ongoing. my response to your questions should therefore be read in that light. as regards the internal ratings-based approach and smaller banks, the framework likely to be proposed will be based on an evolutionary and flexible approach. different approaches will be used by institutions depending upon the level of sophistication they wish to adopt – their risk management practices and so on. the significance of the irb approach has already been identified in parliament's resolution of 17 november 2000 on the evaluation of the own funds directive. the irb approach should be designed prudently but in such a way as not to unduly exclude smaller and less complex institutions. the commission has pursued the above from the beginning, both in preparing its proposal and in participating in the basle process. to accommodate the needs of smaller and less complex institutions, the second commission consultative document of february 2001 diverged on specific issues from the basle consultative document. particular focus was put on the basle minimum standards, which were modified to make them more appropriate to the european union context. for example, the commission's consultation paper proposed requiring institutions to apply the irb approach to all material exposure classes. this will give institutions the possibility to exempt from the irb approach portfolios that are immaterial. this means applying a partial use approach. the commission believes that such flexibility strikes an appropriate balance in the european union context. another aspect included in the commission's second consultative document was the proposal to allow banks to use pooled data in estimating the probability of default of borrowers. this will allow smaller institutions to overcome the possibility that their individual amounts of data will be too small to be statistically meaningful and to rely, where appropriate, on an internal rating system developed by a banking association. on the potential effect of the new regime on the cost of lending to smes, both the commission and the basle committee have strongly emphasised the importance of ensuring that the capital adequacy regime leads to appropriate treatment of credit to smes. during 2001 significant progress was made on this aspect and the commission is committed to a successful outcome in this significant issue. a modified risk-weight curve for corporate exposures has been developed, which is likely to reduce the capital requirements for many sme borrowers relative to the proposals in the second consultative document. recognition is likely to be given in the irb approach to a wider range of collateral. i will say more about this in a moment. work has continued on the development of risk-weight proposals in respect of retail lending. in the irb approaches these are lower than for lending to corporates. retail lending is likely to be defined in such a way that small business loans that are treated as retail loans by a bank and that meet the other relevant criteria will fall within the retail risks weight. that will benefit the regulatory capital charges of relevant small-business loans, while maintaining appropriate levels of prudential soundness. the question of recognition of a wider range of collateral in the irb approach has received a good deal of attention during 2001. this is of particular importance in the context of lending to smes. the emerging thinking is to recognise a broader range of collateral than was previously proposed. the likelihood is that the approach will be not to name specific types of physical collateral that will be acceptable, but to set eligibility criteria that seek to ensure a certain sustainable value of the collateral in the event of borrower default. it is envisaged that appropriate recognition will also be given in the irb approach to situations where loans are secured against receivables and that the risk mitigation aspects of financial leases will be appropriately recognised. consideration is also being given to recognising the practice whereby life insurance policies are placed with the lending institution as security for a loan. i now turn to the fifth question on implementation of the new basle accord, concerning the question of uniformity and flexibility and the date of implementation. on the question of uniformity of application and flexibility, it is important to state once again that the new framework will be based on an evolutionary approach. it is designed to be used differently by institutions of different sizes and complexity. a key focus of the commission's efforts lies in ensuring that the specific features of the european union context, including the wider range of institutions to which the regime will apply, are fully reflected in this new regime. for reasons of competitive neutrality, the european union legislative framework for banks and investment firms is based on the principle of equality of treatment between competing institutions, at least as regards certain business and market segments. for this reason, a capital adequacy regime that is profoundly innovative, should not be introduced for only one category of institution. for reasons of international competitive equity, it is very important that european union institutions move to the new framework within the same timescale as institutions of other jurisdictions, including, for example, the united states. the target date for implementation is 2005. the commission intends to adopt the proposal for a directive shortly after final agreement is reached in basle. this, together with the full and thorough consultative process that is taking place in order to produce a very high-quality proposal, will enable the commission to contribute to the fullest extent to a process which will allow legislation to be adopted in good time to achieve the accord implementation date. the importance of rapid implementation of the new framework was recognised in the resolution of this parliament of november 2000 on the evaluation of the own funds directive. on the sixth question, i would say that the commission is aware of the concerns of some commentators, including some member states, that the treatment of the maturity dimension proposed in the second consultative document could create competitive disadvantages for banks which typically grant long-term loans. this matter is still being considered in basle. on the seventh question, regarding limit retail loans, the commission believes that the borderline between corporate loans and retail loans should be such as to allow certain kinds of lending to smes to be treated as retail in nature. the question of where exactly the cut-off point between a retail loan and a non-retail loan should be, is subject to ongoing consideration. the definition currently proposed in the irb framework includes a use test, whereby such a loan can be treated as retail in nature if is treated in the institution's risk-management systems and assessments in the same manner as other retail loans and meets the other relevant criteria, including those in relation to value. the commission regards this approach as useful and effective. the commission recognises the special risk characteristics associated with home loans. it also recognises that european residential mortgage markets have different features from other mortgage markets in the world and that they are of particular importance to the european union banking system. work is continuing to develop an appropriate treatment for loans of this type. finally, on the eighth question – regarding coordination between the nine eu member states that are members of the basle committee and the other european union member states – the european union perspective is indeed strongly represented in the basle committee. spain joined the basle committee last year, which brings the total number of eu countries on the committee to 9 out of 13. the commission sits as an observer on the committee, as does the european central bank. this has allowed the views of the european union as a whole to be conveyed, as reflected in the recent development of the basle proposals, in the review of the capital requirements applicable to lending to smes, and in the wider recognition of collateral. the work of the banking advisory committee is very important in this regard. the bac is an advisory committee to the commission, bringing together banking supervisors and regulators. the authorities responsible for the prudential supervision of investment firms have been invited to participate in discussions of the capital review. a dedicated working structure has been established to assist in developing concrete proposals that should address eu concerns, in particular as regards the application of the capital framework to a wide range of institutions, including smaller banks and investment firms. to conclude, let me say that the commission considers that very good progress has been made. of course further important work remains to be done before the third consultative document is published later in the year. the commission looks forward to finalising this work and adopting a legislative proposal so that the new regime can be introduced in a timely manner. finally, the commission regards it as important to the process that parliament be kept informed of the commission's developing thinking in relation to the potential proposal for a new capital adequacy regime. commissioner bolkestein has just this week written to the chairman of the economic and monetary affairs committee to suggest that it might be useful to arrange a meeting where members of the committee could be apprised by commission experts in greater detail as to the emerging thinking in relation to the capital adequacy review.
i thank the commissioner for his very detailed and informative presentation. i very much welcome what you said about the flexibility and evolutionary approach with regard to the internal ratings-based approach. it is vital that this risk-sensitive framework should be potentially applicable to a wide range of credit institutions, both large and small. i also welcome what you said about pooled data, which is essential to ensuring that smaller institutions can take advantage of a new risk-sensitive framework by pooling data with similar, smaller institutions. i further welcome what you said about the modified risk weight curve and retail lending and collateral. all these issues are going to be vitally important in ensuring that the new framework is adaptable to the diversity of large and small credit institutions and investment firms in the european union. i welcome a risk-sensitive framework. there is no need for a more sophisticated and risk-sensitive framework to be more bureaucratic and costly. at all costs we want to ensure a fair balance for smes. there is no need for a risk-sensitive framework to make sme borrowing more expensive. i am confident that if the commission and parliament do their work properly we can devise a solution and a new accord which are risk-sensitive, protect savers, encourage systemic stability and ensure that small businesses can continue to have access to loan finance. in many cases i hope that this may even bring down the cost of lending for small businesses. it is vital that we get this right. i look forward to the further exchange of views that has been proposed. there is a great deal more work to be done, but i am encouraged by what i have heard so far in response to the question tabled by myself, mr karas and mr radwan.
mr president, on a point of order: it will hardly surprise the house if, on behalf of my group, i support the position you have taken. but i would nonetheless urge you in your intervention at the european council in barcelona to make the point very strongly that we as a house are not happy with the procedure that has been taken and that we hope in the future to see a much more constructive and collaborative approach to us from the other institutions.
mr president, i would like to draw attention to the seriousness of the situation around calais following the second refusal by french courts last friday to close the sangatte refugee transit centre. in particular, i want to highlight the damage being done to the british rail freight industry by the policy of the french authorities effectively to close the tunnel to freight trains for 18 hours a day. eight thousand british jobs are being put at risk as a result of this state of affairs, including in my own area of the east of england. apart from the other very serious implications, the situation makes a mockery of the idea of the free movement of goods across the european union. i hope the commission will institute urgent proceedings against the french authorities in order to rectify this situation.
mr president, i should like to know whether you share my concern at the mawkish exhibition held in parliament's building in brussels last week entitled "we on death row". this exhibition set out to glamorise convicted felons who have committed heinous crimes. surely our constituents would prefer us to save our sympathy for the victims of these crimes and for the families of the victims who are condemned to a life sentence of grief? colleagues may also like to recall that public opinion in a number of member states is still resolutely supportive of the death penalty. can we please avoid such distasteful displays in the future, or at least see that the interests of victims and their families are given due respect?
mr president, i should like to ask you to consider writing a letter to the president of nigeria offering the condolences of the members of this house on the horrendous explosions that took place in lagos. over 1 000 people were killed and there are now over 4 000 orphans there. i am sure everyone in this house would wish them to know our feelings.
rapporteur. – mr president, this proposal implements one of the most important commitments of the october 1999 tampere summit on justice and home affairs. this called for the legal status of long-term legally resident third-country nationals to be approximated to that of member state nationals, so that they have a set of uniform rights as near as possible to those enjoyed by eu citizens. thus its objective is that immigrants or refugees who have been legally resident for at least five years should be given eu long-term residence status. this proposal self-evidently does not cover people who are illegally present in the european union. nor does it apply to persons who are temporarily resident, such as students or those granted temporary protection. in view of the hesitations in some quarters, not least in some parts of the council, it is important to stress that the eu is merely drawing out the logic of member states having given some immigrants a legal right to stay long term. it is only adding an eu dimension. this eu dimension consists of social and legal justice inspired by the fundamental provisions of the eu treaties, and hard-headed self-interest for the european economy and society. there are estimated to be up to 20 million people living legally in the european union who have not taken, or who have not been permitted to take, citizenship of the member state in which they live. one thinks of turkish citizens in germany, north africans in france as two major communities. but there are eligible communities of a myriad of nationalities in all member states. in my own, the united kingdom, the economist last week estimated that half of the 2 million muslims living there are foreign nationals. most of these would have been commonwealth immigrants arriving in the 1950s and 1960s. i will return to the uk position later. my wish to be rapporteur for this report stems partly from my commitment to combating racism. the fair treatment and active integration of third-country nationals, accompanied by measures to prevent discrimination, will assist in the fight against racism and xenophobia. this becomes all the time more, not less, important. it is strongly in the social and economic interests of the eu to integrate such people, and hypocritical, in the light of other eu policies, for us not to do so. there is great concern about the alienation of some immigrant communities and their social and economic disadvantage. there are also worrying reports of increased incidents of racially motivated harassment and hostility, especially since 11 september. the best means to counter all these factors is to ensure that the immense contribution of immigrants is facilitated, recognised and insisted upon. rights equal to those of eu citizens in areas such as employment, education and social protection will enhance their economic contribution. other measures would in addition enhance social integration. i draw attention to amendments nos 33 to 35, which i authored, on equal access to legal proceedings, participation in local life and voting rights, but i should immediately state that the new eldr amendment no 56 is intended to replace amendment no 34, in order to clarify that it means participation in local community life, for instance in neighbourhood forums, and that amendment no 35 is only aspirational in encouraging member states to give local and european voting rights. the green group has re-tabled several of my original amendments that got voted down in committee. to be consistent, the eldr will vote for them. let me come to the delicate task of trying to get a balance in the vote on amendments so that all parts of this house can support this report. i should like to appeal to the right to accept that a reasonable outcome would consist in taking some of their points, but not all of them. thus a reference to the council anti-terrorism measures in assessing threats to security is acceptable, but some of those go too far. in practical terms amendment no 82 is acceptable, but not amendment no 9. while it is acceptable to mention acquisition of knowledge of the host language as being fundamental to social integration, it goes too far to insist that this is a criterion for granting of ec residence status. i appeal to the left not to let objections on points of detail obscure the big picture, so that we fulfil parliament's long-held commitment to legal rights for third-country nationals. it is regrettable that the uk is opting out of this measure. not only will this be socially unjust to uk residents, but it will also make the uk less attractive to talented professionals, a point made by business interests. i urge parliament to rally to a consensus on this balanced and reasonable proposal. i also urge the spanish presidency to reach agreement in the council as a demonstration of the seriousness of its commitment to social integration, and also to labour mobility, as will be called for again in the barcelona summit. we have 20 million residents who, by definition, are mobile. it would be hypocritical of us to deny them the right to move around the european union.
mr president, i should like to thank both rapporteurs, and i welcome these initiatives. i also echo baroness ludford's comments on the british government's lack of enthusiasm. it is a pity that her more progressive ideas narrowly missed endorsement in the committee on citizens' freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs and we now have before us a more begrudging approach to long-term residents from third countries, with an overemphasis on terrorism, language acquisition and sufficient resources, especially in the area of pensions. again, i agree with baroness ludford's comments on the first two of those. the commission's proposals were certainly better than what is now proposed in those areas. this says to me that the image of third-country nationals in the minds of some in this house represents only a very narrow part of the reality – in terms of a specific geography perhaps, a social class or political views. this image certainly does not include the overwhelming majority of third-country nationals, who contribute enormously to the economy and society of the european union and have proved this over a number of years. why else would so many of our governments be increasingly seeking to recruit from third countries at all skill levels if this were not the case? why should such people choose to come here and settle for a number of years if they are to be seen as suspect or second-class, here on sufferance only and viewed as another dimension of a disposable society? as others have said, we should be looking at equal rights for people who make such contributions to our societies.
mr president, i should like to say a few words on the ludford report on the rights of long-term residents. my apologies for missing the first few minutes of this debate but, amongst a number of problems today, i was held up in the passport queue at the airport. ahead of me were two uk passport holders but, being of asian origin, they were being subjected to what i consider to be quite unacceptable levels of interrogation. colleagues around the house will know that is all too typical at customs points all around europe. my apologies also to baroness ludford. mr medina said earlier that some of the amendments that went through committee weakened the commission's original proposal. it was due, in part, to the lack of numbers on my own side that these amendments went through in committee, so i apologise for that. we should strive as far as possible to give all long-term residents the same rights as eu citizens. we should reject the ppe-de amendments which seek to classify long-term residents as somehow second-class citizens. as mrs roure said, we should encourage people to integrate and i support their efforts to learn languages. but using an individual's progress in language as a criterion as to whether to grant long-term status is discriminatory. if the ability to speak your home nation's language properly was generally used as a measure of the right of residency, i can think of a lot of people back home who would not have the right to live there! other parts of this report, which state that proof of adequate retirement cover is a prerequisite for third-country nationals obtaining some rights or the same rights, are equally subjective. we cannot invite people to the european union only to say "pay your taxes here, but do not expect any social services or social benefits in return". that is perpetuating a second-class citizen status. two hundred years ago our ancestors charged around the world, colonising and abusing distant countries. we have a right and a duty now to set society straight and to put our own house in order. we must urge all member states to educate our own citizens much more fully as to the benefits and positive advantages of having an integrated society. in a few years there will come a time when new eu member states will be crying out for third-country nationals to come to help them with their economies and to fill employment vacancies. we must have things sorted out by then.
mr president, i wish to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his excellent report on linking relief, rehabilitation and development. it is an enormously important subject, fraught with problems. there is no doubt at all that there is an increase in disasters worldwide, both man-made, as in afghanistan, and natural, such as in goma, drc. it needs the full cooperation of all parties to have most effect: the donors, the beneficiaries, implementing parties like governments and ngos, and bilateral aid. in afghanistan we have seen the bombing and destruction that has taken place. that will mean urgent and instant relief, the rehabilitation of millions of refugees and development aid. it was horrifying to see in today's paper that a poor family has sold its twelve-year-old daughter into marriage just to get enough food to feed the rest of the family. this is tragic. so getting aid to those most in need is absolutely vital and that requires local knowledge and the right kind of aid. two weeks ago echo informed the committee on development and cooperation that the situation in goma was totally under control and that everything that was required was there. that very night we heard ngos stating on the television that 90,000 were starving and that babies were already dying. is this opportunism, accurate evidence or over-reacting? it is almost impossible to plan for natural disasters. it is better to have a centralised european depot that can react quickly in an appropriate way. linkage is all about cooperation and one body being responsible for decisions.
commission. – mr president, i wish to begin by thanking you for giving me the floor on this important subject. if i may now change to the language which mr van den berg and i have in common, i should like to say the following.
the commission - first of all, i would like to congratulate mr van den berg on the excellent quality of his report on a difficult subject. crisis situations are always complex and we need to reach a consensus on how to improve the union's response as a whole. the commission communication, the council conclusions and the parliamentary report contribute to this consensus. as you know, mr president, the european union is one of the main actors in the world aid circuit. the european community and its member states together account for half of the international aid programmes financed by the developed countries. the european commission, through its humanitarian aid office, better known as echo, is actively involved in providing humanitarian aid to the most vulnerable and hardest hit people in the world. the numbers speak for themselves. last year alone, echo provided over €500 million for humanitarian projects in some 80 countries, reaching some 18 million people. echo's role is and remains to finance the coordinated provision of humanitarian assistance and protection through humanitarian partner organisations with the aim of saving and protecting lives, alleviating suffering, and safeguarding the integrity and dignity of populations in third countries in humanitarian crises. although echo's main task is to provide emergency humanitarian aid, the office also deals with short-term rehabilitation in the immediate post-crisis phase. i think we can all agree that there must be improvements in the twilight zone between relief and development. the speakers this evening have also pointed this out. we all identified the same difficulties, such as the slow decision-making procedures, problems relating to the scope of financial instruments and the need to find the right implementing partners. we are making progress in addressing these points more systematically, but we must recognize that we are not able to solve all the problems associated with the complexity of these situations and we must remain realistic in our approach. the commission has set up a series of actions to implement the policy guidelines for the link between emergency aid, rehabilitation and development. echo is currently finalizing guidelines for its exit strategies. this document will be the basis for consultation with other commission services on the circumstances under which echo may withdraw from providing assistance. the commission services are also working on a mutual agreement to ensure proper coordination and appropriate procedures in the context of the implementation of the cotonou agreement with the african, caribbean and pacific countries. the principles set out in the communication on the link between emergency aid, rehabilitation and development will be applied. europ i is actively working on an agenda to improve its working methods and thus increase its capacity for rapid intervention. from a budgetary point of view, the commission is aware that its operational resources and instruments need to be reviewed. we believe that the number of budget lines should be reduced. on the other hand, it is necessary to ensure that broader regulations can still cover all existing types of activities, speed up decision-making, make the choice of implementing partners flexible and, if necessary, allow decisions to be taken without the consent of the government concerned. on the basis of past experience, we believe that further integration of our interventions into existing regional instruments is the right way forward and should lead to greater policy coherence and stronger complementarity between the different types of interventions within the same country. in reply to several questions put this evening, i would like to emphasize once again that the complementarity of the various instruments in the reconstruction process in afghanistan is an example of the approach pursued by the commission. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to stress one important point. we must be fully aware that intervening in the immediate post-crisis phase means taking on higher political and technical risks. i would like to put that point forward with some emphasis here. that is why the debate we had with the council last year and your report today are being welcomed by the commission as contributions towards a more effective response to crises and the establishment of a greater link between emergency aid and development.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the joint debate on the following reports: - a5-0013/2002 by mr hughes, on behalf of the european parliament delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the organisation of the working time of persons performing mobile road transport activities as a profession (pe-cons 3676/2001 - c5-0688/2001 - 1998/0319 (cod)) - a5-0026/2002 by mrs ghilardotti, on behalf of the european parliament delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a european parliament and council directive establishing a general framework for the information and consultation of workers in the european community (pe-cons 3677/2001 - c5-0687/2001 - 1998/0315 (cod)).
rapporteur. – mr president, i should like to thank mr friedrich who was the vice-president in charge of the conciliation on road transport, and also mr rocard who took part as chairman of the committee on employment and social affairs; in fact, all members of parliament's delegation, because it was very much a team effort. thanks are due to commissioner palacio and her staff for the crucial part they played at several points when it seemed we were at deadlock. finally, i should like to thank the belgian presidency for the energetic and determined way they pursued agreement on this dossier. the outcome of the conciliation on road transport is very much to be welcomed. it plugs one of the last remaining gaps in the working-time mosaic. it is profoundly important from the point of view of health and safety, and road safety more generally, and it is also important from the point of view of ensuring fair competition between the road, rail and other transport sectors. on specifics, first we have secured the inclusion of self-employed drivers as a matter of principle. some will be disappointed that will not take full effect until four years beyond transposition. but we should not forget that the council's common position would almost certainly have led to the permanent exclusion of the self-employed. the council wanted to exclude them in principle and only consider including them on the basis of a commission study looking at possible distortions at some point in the future. even then the council would have been determined to block such a move from the commission. we now have a total reversal of that situation. the self-employed are included as a matter of principle and can only be excluded if two things happen: first, if the commission proposes such an exclusion; and secondly, if we, as co-legislator here in parliament, agree with such an exclusion. neither of those things is very likely to happen. another important point in the outcome is a strong definition of self-employment. even with only a temporary exclusion of the self-employed, we felt it was very important that we won a clear and limiting definition of what a self-employed driver actually is, to avoid unscrupulous employers pushing drivers into false forms of independence. we now have a very clear definition in article 3(e), and the final sentence of that article is a catch-all: drivers who are not caught by the checklist of criteria included in the definition will be dealt with as though they are employees under the directive. that is an extremely useful definition. we have also considerably improved and clarified the definition of working time. it also now applies to the self-employed except in respect of general administrative work, not linked directly to the specific transport operation under way. on night work, i again know that some will be disappointed that we did not succeed in limiting night work to eight hours. i will make three quick points regarding that. it would have been impossible to get that through council. most delegations were against. there are valid environmental and road safety reasons to transport goods – if they must be transported by road – at night. concession on night work became a key in securing the inclusion of the self-employed. this is a joint debate involving consideration of the importance of work, information and consultation. members will see from article 8 concerning derogations on weekly working time and night work that we have insisted upon the promotion of social dialogue as the first option. my final point is that certain aspects of the text before us are highly relevant to the state of affairs being brought to light by the kralowetz case. those aspects seeking to block the creation of false independent status, dealing with record-keeping, and placing a focus on the duties of consigners and others responsible for determining routes and timetables, are particularly relevant. but kralowetz makes two things glaringly obvious. first, in the enlargement process we desperately need additional social safeguard measures and a socially controlled opening of the labour market for workers from central and eastern europe, particularly in this sector. secondly, it is glaringly clear that if the level of control exposed by this case continues, important texts like this one will be worth less than the paper they are printed on. we must insist on full and proper application of controls across the european union. my final point is that it is absolutely essential that we have european-wide rules that are binding throughout the territories of the european union, otherwise the kralowetz case will be just one of many which we will see in the weeks and months to come.
- mr president, i have to go. the european regulation of working time for professional drivers is urgently needed for three reasons: firstly, to provide social protection for workers, secondly, to improve road safety and thirdly, for competition reasons. we are pleased with the points we have obtained in the conciliation committee. we particularly agree with what you have already said: the inclusion of the selfemployed, a clear definition of the selfemployed, a clear definition of working hours - which of course will also allow companies to be more regressed - and the establishment of the exceptions concerning weekly working hours and night work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i think this is where we should start. the commission has put forward a new regulation on the harmonization of certain social legislation in road transport, which will therefore be debated in this parliament shortly. there are currently major discrepancies between the results obtained in the conciliation committee and the new proposal. they need to be cleared out, you need to coordinate. we have, of course, the opportunity to play a much greater part in shaping and defining sanctions and controls, because this is a regulation, and that means that it has a different legal binding force and effect. i think the most important point is that, despite the fact that we are taking account of the harmonization of competition, we must start from the necessity of harmonizing social legislation and increasing road safety. and if we can do that, then we've already accomplished a great deal.
mr president, i do not share the enthusiasm of my colleagues for the results of this conciliation but i am equally warm in my congratulations to both rapporteurs. they won and i lost, to my regret and possibly their surprise. we all know that if the council had not given in then parliament itself would have conceded rather than lose either directive. so parliament had a weak hand but both rapporteurs played it extremely well. i congratulate them for their skill. they were helped by the early climb-down of the uk government during both conciliation processes. it was particularly ironic that the uk minister for europe should have come to strasbourg last autumn – to plead with uk meps from all parties to vote down the whole ghilardotti report – to find that not only were labour meps positively promoting the report but the uk representative then bent over backwards to support it as well. politics is certainly an odd business. as colleagues know, i am a fervent supporter of information and consultation but an equally fervent opponent of a one-size-fits-all straitjacket for companies of all shapes and sizes. this directive, as amended, is more likely, in my view, to be a barrier to employee involvement than a bridge. moving to the working time directive: in my view this is bad legislation. it could have been worse had it limited night-time driving, but i was delighted that the rapporteur finally saw reason and this proposal was removed. but it is still bad legislation in its provisional extension to include the self-employed. as the spanish representative said, when joining other countries in registering his country's dissent from the final text, it is the first time that the entrepreneurial sector has been included in any directive. i will certainly fight to make sure it is the last. we should want to see more jobs, not less. this should not and must not be seen as a precedent.
mr president, i should like to start by congratulating mr vidal-quadras roca for his usual, very cooperative and consensual approach. i know that mrs zrihen, our socialist shadow, who unfortunately cannot be here this evening, appreciated the way in which he worked. this directive, part of a package of measures aimed at making our use of energy more intelligent, should disseminate the existing good practice of some member states right across the eu, and will also be very important in improving the situation in applicant countries where energy-efficient buildings could do much to help their economies as well as protecting the environment. we as socialists are very supportive of the amendments put forward by mr vidal-quadras roca and others. the rapid growth of air conditioning needs to be taken into account more, the possibilities open to member states in the form of inducements should be clarified, and many of the definitions need to be tightened. one point that mrs zrihen wanted to make was that the surface area definitions must be re-examined over the next four years. it could well be that this directive is insufficiently ambitious and that it should also apply to much smaller surface areas. we ask the commission to prepare for a reduction if that proves necessary. in conclusion, may i once again thank mr vidal-quadras roca and the commission. we look forward to more directives as promised by the commissioner in this important area of energy efficiency, of energy intelligence.
mr president, i have an interest to declare: i chair the energy efficiency advice centre which operates in the northern half of the region that i represent. i hasten to add that it is a technical interest and not a financial one. improving the energy performance of buildings, however it is defined, is the most difficult issue that i have ever had to grapple with. therefore my sympathy, to some extent, is with the rapporteur in being presented with an issue of this complexity. in the uk we have too many organisations trying to improve matters. at the european level we have a certain confusion of objectives. are we trying to save energy? are we trying to reduce co2 emissions, or are we trying to reduce energy consumption? these are not all the same things. it is energy consumption that we should be focusing on. in my experience it is the existing buildings that are the key to our success. if you look at the housing sector, the most difficult area is rented accommodation rather than the owner-occupied sector. we are a long way from solving that one. in general i support the commission's proposals and the report, but i have some hesitation about amendment no 15. we should be focusing more on the common methodology rather than worrying too much at this stage about minimum standards applying right across the whole of the community. we are really a long way from being able to achieve that. i also have some reservations about including a co2 emission indicator. if you take a house, it depends on how much gas is being used or how much electricity. therefore you cannot compare them very easily. but it is a step in the right direction.
mr president, what we are debating is the proposal that parliament and the council should delegate substantial implementing powers to the commission. parliament is happy to go along with that, provided there are substantial guarantees as regards the oversight of such delegated powers. those who sometimes worry that in seeking such guarantees parliament is trying to modify the interinstitutional equilibrium should remember that this substantial delegation of powers is itself a modification of the interinstitutional equilibrium as it exists and that in those circumstances it is quite legitimate for parliament to seek to obtain certain guarantees. after many months of discussion, talks and negotiations with the commission, the result has now been put forward to us in the form of the statement just made by mr prodi. i must say that it contains a number of significant steps forward. first, the commission recognises that article 202 of the treaty should be changed at the next revision of the treaty – it supports parliament's position on that. but, in the meantime, the commission recognises that parliament has the right to examine and take a position on the implementing measures that it puts forward to the specialist committees that will be set up to work with the commission. parliament will have three months instead of just one month, as it has under existing procedures, to examine and take a position on such implementing measures. the text of the commission does not limit parliament's right to examining whether the commission has gone beyond what has been delegated to it, something which we could anyway solve by means of a legal case, if ever it came to a conflict. it gives us the right to object, if need be, on the substance. that is also very important. but what happens if parliament objects and then the commission does not accept its objection to an implementing measure? there the text is a little ambiguous: it speaks of equivalence without saying equivalence with whom. mrs berès has already made the point: equivalence with the economic and social committee, equivalence with the press? no, it is obvious for us insiders that it means equivalence with the council. that is what we have been talking about for months, and mr prodi's introductory remarks made it clear that the commission too accepts that it means equivalence with the council. that is how we interpret it and i think there can be no other interpretation. we have a third step forward and that is a guarantee in case all this does not work. we have the sunset clause: after four years the delegated powers will revert to parliament and the council, unless we agree to renew them. that is a guarantee to us and it will concentrate the minds of the commission in between times, making it aware that it must exercise these implementing powers in a way that parliament finds satisfactory if it wishes to have any hope of their renewal. fourthly, we have some important guarantees as regards openness and transparency, and we have acceptance of parliament's idea that a market participants' committee should be set up alongside the other committees. so, all in all, we can be satisfied with the progress that has been made, even if the drafting on the points i made earlier could have been a little better. nonetheless, i would ask whether the full text of the commission's statement and mr prodi's statement today could be incorporated not just in the verbatim report of proceedings but also in the minutes, because it was a very significant statement and should be recorded in our minutes, so that we have a proper record of what the commission has undertaken to do.
mr president, for more than a year we in parliament's negotiating teams, together with the commission and the council of ministers, have been struggling with a puzzle. we have all agreed with baron lamfalussy and his wise men that effective regulation of financial markets and the creation of a single financial market require us to delegate powers to the commission and to a more nimble official committee. but there has been a key problem. although this house was given the power of codecision vis-à-vis such legislation by the maastricht treaty in 1992, it was not given the power to oversee effectively the role of any committee. what we have seen of such committees in the past, we have not liked; they have been secretive, bureaucratic, kafkaesque. one condition on which my group insisted was that this culture of secrecy must change fundamentally, opening up decision-making not only to us in parliament, but to the world outside. we needed guarantees of transparency, openness and consultation. here they are in the president's statement and in the letter that commissioner bolkestein addressed to the chairperson of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. but how were we to ensure that those promises of a changed culture, so often honoured in the breach, were finally respected? it became clear that no lasting change could happen before the convention and the intergovernmental conference of 2004 had been concluded. only an igc could change article 202, which basically gives sole rights of oversight of committees to the council of ministers, ignoring the new role of parliament. we needed a promise that our concerns, ignored in successive treaty revisions, would be taken on board. we needed an interim solution that meant that europe's savers and investors did not have to wait still longer before the completion of the single market in financial services, which was first launched in 1973. the health of the european economy depends on this legislation. a vital and dynamic economy depends on an efficient financial system for collecting savings and funnelling them at low cost to the most productive uses. it was long clear to the liberal group that the only interim solution would be to put a time limit on the delegated powers. for the first time in eu legislation, we will have a sunset clause that will remove the powers of the commission and the committee after four years unless they are used wisely and well. thankfully, the initial opposition of the socialist group and the european people's party, together with concerns about legal uncertainty, were overcome. any regulations passed by the committee will remain on the statute book even if its powers are suspended, but parliament can bite if it needs to. this is an important moment for liberalisation of the european economy. the deal will underpin the euro – for what is a single currency if the markets on which it is traded are still divided by national barriers? it will give confidence that, whatever the challenges ahead for economic and monetary union, the european union can surmount them, and it shows that parliament is a serious and responsible legislature and partner in economic reform. the lisbon reform process is back on track. i wholeheartedly congratulate mr von wogau, our rapporteur, and commend this report to the house.
mr president, what is interesting about this report is the expressed concern for parliament's rights. this is matched by the claim that the committee wants to enhance democratic control over this fast-moving area. what i do not see is any concern expressed for those in financial services or for the customers they serve. without dwelling on any particular aspect of the financial services legislation to which this report refers, i have to fulfil my own democratic responsibility and point out that the aggregation of community legislation is slowly, but inexorably, strangling the financial community and making it almost impossible to trade. in this context i am constantly reminded by my constituents that those most affected are the small and independent financial advisers, the net effect being that business is becoming steadily concentrated in the hands of larger and larger firms. on the other hand, i see no slackening in the number of financial scandals which break into the headlines. in fact, the very reverse seems to be the case. coming as i do from a tradition where parliament is the guarantor of safeguards and freedoms of individuals, i therefore find this report yet another exercise in increasing the power of the community institutions, with no thought for what the legislation is trying to achieve. the committee is counting the angels dancing on the end of a pin while the industry gradually collapses. this to me typifies what the community is about.
mr president, on behalf of the british conservatives and the rest of the ppe-de group i would like to say that we strongly support the compromise set out in the von wogau report and reiterated by mr prodi this morning. parliament has secured significant concessions on transparency, on consultation and on oversight. parliament's rapporteur is to be congratulated for securing those. parliament should also express its appreciation to mr bolkestein and his staff, and to the commission, for responding to the concerns that we raised about these matters. mr von wogau deserves much praise for drawing to a conclusion the lengthy negotiations that we have had on this important issue. we in parliament have taken a pragmatic approach. this is a workable interim solution pending final resolution of the whole matter of delegated legislation in 2004, when parliament could and should ask for a legally binding call-back mechanism, which is desirable but, sadly, not permissible within the terms of the current treaty and arrangements. it is of vital importance that parliament backs this compromise when it votes at 12 noon today, because without it we will not be in a position to deliver an integrated financial market – whether in 2004, 2005 or indeed ever. that financial market is not just of interest to bankers; it could also lead to cheaper prices and a wider choice of financial products for consumers and businesses, cheaper borrowing, higher returns for savers and investors, as well as doing a great deal to start defusing the pensions time bomb. all these are highly significant benefits to the ordinary people who elected us to serve on their behalf. accepting this compromise will bring us considerably closer to achieving our goal of an integrated financial market and delivering those benefits to ordinary people right across the european union.
mr president, it is with some regret that i must disagree slightly with my colleague, mr katiforis. i am speaking particularly on behalf of the uk pse delegation in order to say that we will not be supporting this report for many of the reasons that mr katiforis has already outlined. we do not accept the argument that price makes no difference to the amount of cigarettes consumed. in fact, i have figures here from the uk, which show that a 10% increase in the price of cigarettes leads to a 4% decrease in consumption. so there is a link between the cost of smoking and the amount that is actually smoked. that is the case that the uk pse delegation is making, particularly with regard to amendments nos 2 and 3 on reducing the excise duty below that set out in the original report. it is important for parliament to vote against this report, because very recently we adopted the tobacco directive, which, as we all know, took various public health measures to reduce smoking. it therefore seems very inconsistent to adopt this report, which seeks to pass measures and form opinions which will, to some extent, go against the measures we have already taken on public health grounds. that is not to say that we do not understand the issues raised about the applicant countries and about small and medium-sized tobacco producers. if voting against this report has an effect on them, that is unfortunate and is not something that we would wish to see. but when we are discussing tobacco we are talking about a product which is harmful to health wherever you happen to live, and that is the main argument. this is a health measure rather than anything to do with production or with harmonising duty, though that we accept the latter as a principle. i felt that i needed to explain our position and say why the uk pse will be voting against this report later today.
mr president, 22% of all cigarettes purchased in great britain and northern ireland are smuggled into the country. in the year 2000 smuggling of tobacco caused losses of gbp 3.8 million to the british exchequer. her majesty's customs and excise have been able to cut the cross-channel bootlegging of tobacco by an impressive 76% since march 2000. the bootleggers are up in arms at this, but now, with the commissioner announcing his intention to take action against the united kingdom for creating barriers to the free movement of goods, the door could be opened even wider to give smuggling an even greater field day. the cheap smuggled tobacco has produced new smokers among the young people in the united kingdom. that is a tragedy. it has also threatened the few remaining jobs in the british tobacco industry. the british tobacco industry should have an even playing field with the tobacco manufacturers in the rest of the european union and should not be penalised.
mr president, i and my delegation of british conservatives welcome the rejection of the commission's proposal in the previous vote in parliament, and we regret the current proposal to accept the commission's proposal, which is flawed. we will be supporting a number of mr katiforis' amendments because they make a bad proposal rather better. however, overall, we cannot give our support to this proposal because we do not believe in the upwards harmonisation of tobacco taxes. tax is a matter for nation-states, for domestic governments, and should remain the preserve of domestic governments, which are democratically elected and democratically accountable, tax being one of the most fundamental aspects of nationhood and statehood. in addition, we are by no means convinced by the health arguments on smoking and tax. we are increasingly concerned that ever-spiralling levels of tax on cigarettes may lead to increased smuggling. such illegal smuggling of cigarettes from outside the european union is now causing a great deal of concern and may lead to an increase in smoking, certainly in my constituency and much of the united kingdom. so the health issues in favour of high tobacco taxes are not clear cut but, even more importantly, we do not believe in the upward harmonisation of excise duties or, in particular, the upward harmonisation of tobacco taxes. hence, we will be opposing the commission's proposal.
mr president, once again it was quite impossible to hear the commissioner's winding-up speech. it is totally unfair to our commissioners who come here to address us after they have listened to our speeches. i wonder whether, at the start of this two-and-a-half years of your presidency, you might consider a five-minute break between the end of business and members coming into this chamber, because we cannot continue in this way, showing this discourtesy to our commissioners. (applause)
in writing. - i am in favour of the general principles embedded in the regulation of working hours, the health and safety benefits to workers and, in the case of road transport, the road safety/accident prevention benefits that will be brought about. i believe that such regulations must strike the right balance between the recognised benefits and the practical realities faced by road transport companies, particularly in rural and island areas where there are no viable alternatives to road transport. the concession to limit night work is of paramount importance for scotland, where long road journeys are inevitable and where road haulage companies already have to contend with deterrents such as high fuel taxes and a relatively poor quality road network in many places.
in writing. - this directive will provide considerable protection for many employees whose livelihoods are threatened, particularly because of the increasing ease with which companies relocate. it will not stop job losses, of course, but it will prevent situations where employees learn of their dismissal through the media. it will also prepare for large-scale job losses when they are unavoidable. in addition, it has no adverse effects on the 97% of enterprises with less than 50 employees which are not affected by this directive. this final agreement is certainly not as far-reaching as the greens/efa group would have liked. we will nevertheless support it because it is a major step forward in some countries such as the united kingdom, which currently have no such protection for workers. we have seen this in my constituency in wales when corus laid off 3,000 steelworkers without consulting the employees, with catastrophic consequences for many communities. unfortunately, the six-year uk exemption shows that the uk government has not learned from this experience and welsh workers will continue to be among the most vulnerable to redundancies in europe. i hope it will not take six years for all european workers to have the same right.
in writing. - a striking example of the need to improve and establish a common european framework for information and consultation of employees can be seen right now in my home region. a long-established multinational in the area, levi strauss, recently issued a notice of redundancy for employees at two scottish production sites, bellshill and dundee. the media was informed first, and the announcement was accompanied by a statement explaining that the company had unilaterally considered and then rejected any alternative to closure. this is a deplorable practice and the fact that the united kingdom is considered to have the weakest legislation on this matter does not help matters. i therefore welcome and support the initiatives aimed at establishing a reasonable standard, at european level, for consultation of workers.
in writing. - i warmly welcome the efforts to harmonize the penalties for drug trafficking. overall, this report is a balanced, comprehensive, sensible and robust approach to a longstanding problem affecting all eu member states. the rules governing drug trafficking, which is a criminal offence, have been vague for too long, creating large pockets of crime in some parts of the world and the eu. another welcome measure is the harmonisation of sentences, which establishes prison sentences of a maximum of five years, neither more nor less. once this legislation enters into force, it should have a real deterrent effect. fines should only be used as an additional measure to prison sentences, otherwise they could give the impression that it is possible to buy freedom after committing a crime. finally, i welcome the nuanced approach adopted in the report on mitigating circumstances. it is clear, for example, that minors and persons who have committed a crime under physical threat should not be subject to the same penalties as others.
high representative, commissioner, you have the dubious fortune to live in interesting times, as the chinese might say. you may be the architects of the union's awakening in foreign policy. i welcome the meetings that mr sharon had last week with palestinian leaders. i regret that it is the first time since he came to power that he has directly engaged with the palestinians and i hope it is not mere coincidence that the talks come just before his trip to washington dc. but it will not be enough to talk about a cease-fire. we need to be talking about an israeli pullback and an end to the destruction of eur 17 million worth of eu-funded palestinian infrastructure. i recommend, high representative, that if we want peace we do not define any starting date. nonetheless, the news that some israeli reservists are reportedly refusing to serve outside the 1967 frontiers is a welcome development. (applause)after all it was similar pressure from reservists that led to israel's withdrawal from lebanon and, taken together with arafat's expression of willingness of the palestinians to end the conflict and the need to find creative solutions, these green shoots of optimism need to be nurtured and encouraged to grow. high representative, you spoke of the mitchell report and light at the end of the tunnel. i hope this is not the headlamp of an oncoming train. sometimes america's friends – or so-called friends – in the middle east have been about as helpful to the peace process as the so-called loyalists in northern ireland have proven loyal to the uk government. the union has a serious dilemma if it believes that us policy on the middle east is damaging the entirety of western interests. i wish you wisdom and courage in your discussions with our friends on the other side of the atlantic. high representative, you spoke also about afghanistan. my group is concerned about reports of interfactional fighting in northern and eastern afghanistan, leading to thousands of pashtuns fleeing villages, reports of 50 or more people being killed in gardez. such reports are an ominous sign and strengthen the case for an international stabilisation force to prevent any possibility of a slide to civil war. our priority would be to complete the elimination of terrorist networks but in this regard we believe that whatever questions there are over the status of combatants held by the us in afghanistan and in guantanamo bay, they should be treated consistently with the 1949 geneva convention. (applause) that convention was the fourth such to establish principles for the treatment of enemy soldiers and civilians in wartime. i hope that you will support my call for a united nations committee to review it, to determine whether further changes are needed concerning armed insurgents and terrorists who do not fall within the traditional definitions and, if not, at least call on the americans to sign the 1977 amendments to extend protection to guerrillas and combatants, amendments which the us has refused thus far to sign. in his state of the union address, president bush displayed a shocking belligerence. just as his environmental policies lead to global warming, so his diplomatic and military policies are pushing the world towards a new cold war. in this century every shot the us fires will indeed, in the words of the poet emerson, "ring round the world" and unless you can appeal to, and nurture, a wider concept of american self-interest, then we risk the menace of a new military millennium. (applause)
mr president, i too congratulate the high representative, mr solana, and commissioner patten for their untiring work. we share your frustration at the lack of outcomes. has the time come now for us to move on from dialogue and move into shared partnerships, overcoming perceived religious differences to tackle common human evils of poverty, ill health and illiteracy? surely the place today for dialogue is within islam, between muslim and muslim, to work out ways of discarding false jihads, rejecting distorted interpretations of the koran that lead inevitably to misguided martyrdoms and terrorist assaults. islam is a faith that promotes peace, equality and a secure life. meanwhile we should tackle the lack of democracy in the oil-rich states. here we can assist through building civil society and use means such as our association agreement with egypt to exert undoubted influence. high representative solana mentioned the islamic republic of iran. my view is his as well. i believe we should open a commission office in tehran as soon as possible. this is an islamic state, and yet a democracy; it has sharia law, and yet a parliament. surely iran is part of the solution rather than part of the problem – a peaceful society in a violent region. i thank our commissioner and our high representative and their staff for all their work.
mr president, this debate has focused largely on the situation in the middle east. i am not sure that the largely one-sided tone of this chamber is at all helpful. i endorse mr brok's call for a more balanced approach but as requested i also want to take the opportunity briefly to touch on another area of crisis which is of increasing concern at the moment and where the european union has the capacity to exert some influence. i am referring to zimbabwe. even if electoral observers are allowed in, we must maintain the pressure on mr mugabe to deliver free and fair elections. we do not want to be in a position of merely recording that the election was fixed and standing back and wringing our hands afterwards. we want the presence of observers to deter violence and electoral fraud so that the zimbabwean people can make a genuinely free choice. many of us continue to be alarmed by reports from inside zimbabwe about the situation on the ground. i am referring to the fact that five mdc supporters have been killed in the past week, that mdc demonstrations and rallies have been disrupted by the police, that the independent press is restricted, the independent correspondent, basildon peta, was earlier today arrested under the public order and security act and the australian journalist sally sara has been refused admission. taken together one might think that these matters already constitute a breach of eu conditions. i have some questions for mr solana. what representations are being made to the government of south africa to apply greater regional pressure on the mugabe government? are the measures for the implementation of smart sanctions now in place? what level of deterioration in the situation will trigger these sanctions? is the european union's response being fully coordinated with that of the united states?
the agenda calls for the commission communication on vertical agreements and concerted practices in the automotive industry.
mr president, there is much to be welcomed in the commissioner's statement, in particular its acknowledgement of the role of the grey market in bringing prices down, the use of the internet, car supermarkets in the proper trade in spare parts and servicing. there is one question i have to ask. it looks as if in different national markets exclusivity can be maintained in a position which could be anti-competitive. how wide, in a given national market, could these exclusive deals with the dealer networks remain?
mr president, i should also like to thank mr monti for coming to parliament today and making a very clear statement on a very complex issue. it would have been very helpful if we could have had the text in advance, but i understand and hope it will be available very quickly. i should like to raise two points with him. what concerns british consumers – and much of it is addressed in his proposal – is clearly the question of price. does the commissioner see a role for putting price bans and price guarantees in the regulation so it is reviewed after a certain period to ensure that prices are converging? that would give a clear signal about the direction he wants to go. the second issue concerns freedom of dealers and their ability to invest. he has moved substantially in the right direction but i am concerned, in the example he gave, about the ability of a dealer to holland to go and invest and set up a dealership in the uk. how is that going to protect dealers who already have a substantial investment? would it not be much better for them to be able to go and buy cars in holland and sell them to consumers there, rather than have what could be a random solution which would actually dissipate the impact of the dealers' independence that he wants to give them?
i should like to congratulate the commissioner on steering this package, which was not entirely unanimous, through the commission so skilfully. the same problems exist in the uk: 52 models examined in the uk are still more expensive. my question is the same as mrs riis-jørgensen's. if we have the partial reforms that the commissioner is proposing here today, and we carry those out in opening up the market to grey trade supermarkets, in particular internet sales, is it not the case that the block exemption becomes obsolete, and when will the day be when we actually get rid of these rules? finally, commissioner, in 1999 i asked you a question in response to which you told me that cars in britain would be cheaper if britain joined the euro. is that still your position, and what difference do you think that would make in terms of price differentials?
the commission. - mr president, i agree with the honourable member that words are words, only deeds matter. the publication this week of our report on the sme charter gives an indication of what has been done in the member states. it is very important for the commission that we are able to present a thorough impact assessment of all new legislative proposals during the year, that we know what the real costs are for businesses and that we always think about what is the simplest solution. i am prepared to return to this subject with the honourable member in great detail. but i agree with you: actions are the most important, words are enough for a very short time.
i would like to pick up on the commissioner's last reply and i am delighted that he is talking about thorough impact assessment. i would like to put it to him that at the moment impact assessments that we receive attached to commission proposals in many cases are not thoroughly done, they are not looking at the full implications, they are not necessarily independent. would he agree with me that it is vital to have an interinstitutional arrangement for independent impact assessment so that when proposals come through this house and colleagues add burdens on business they are properly costed? also, when the council adds provisions to commission proposals in common position, they should be properly costed too? would he not share my view that this is the sort of bold proposal we want to see? i have to say that the proposals we have seen so far from the commission on regulatory assessment are far too timid.
commission. – i should first of all like to thank mr harbour for keeping e-europe high on the european agenda. when we look back at the year 2000 we can see that the e-europe action plan really rewrote the european political agenda. the idea was to set clear targets for the eu and member states, clear deadlines and follow it up. has this idea worked? i think it has. to give you a few examples: the telecoms package and unbundling the local loop. we would never have been able to imagine these rapid procedures without high priority being given to information society. internet penetration has increased. it was 18% in march 2000 and 38% in december 2001 – more than double. nearly 90% of schools are now connected to the internet. today 90% of european enterprises have internet access. we now have the fastest research network in the world. the start of progress in getting government on-line is well under way. a comprehensive overview is now available. it was accepted today in the commission. i am happy to pass it on to members of parliament. what are the new challenges? first of all, internet penetration has risen sharply but is still very unevenly distributed across europe. schools are massively connected but still the number of pupils per on-line pc varies enormously. we must have more pcs at school per student. even though businesses are more and more connected the reorganisation of business procedures is only starting. business consumer e-commerce is still rather small. governments have started enthusiastically to go on-line. normally there is a question about presenting activities on their website. real interactivity is still rare. all the interactivities give better services to citizens and increase the productivity of the public sector. the commission has not come to the end of its actions because technology moves quickly. broadband internet is now a real option. broadband is the essential physical infrastructure of the knowledge society. without broadband we will not deliver fully lisbon. other nations have already made their choices for broadband. the commission's report to the barcelona summit said: "broadband internet access will be a key factor for improving the performance of the economy. broadband networks will form the backbone of an increasingly interconnected and integrated society. e-europe should be continued beyond 2002 and shift its focus more towards effective usage and availability of the internet." the commission is particularly happy that the spanish presidency shares this analysis and has put the launch of e-europe 2005 action plan on its agenda. the first discussion on a possible new action plan will take place at the informal telecoms council in vitoria in spain on 22 and 23 february 2002. the commission is ready to go into pro-dialogue also with the relevant committees in the european parliament.
i should like to thank the commissioner for a wide-ranging reply and i note that two of the central achievements are those which parliament has pushed through very strongly. however, my concern is not the work that he has done – for which i commend him very much – but rather, for example, the delays and problems that member states are experiencing in transposing the electronic commerce directive, passed by this house with great speed. similarly, i see that as regards copyright in the information society – another fundamental plank in the legislation that he does not mention – discussion is continuing on ideas for new levies on computer disks and other issues that will fundamentally hold back the development of the e-society. does he share my considerable concern that member states do not appear to be taking anything like seriously enough the fundamental principles that he has enunciated and would he give us some indication that he will give positive vent to them at the forthcoming meetings? will the commission publish evaluation reports on both of these issues so that we in this house can put some political pressure on member states to get on with it?
commission. – the high representative and i wrote to ministers in november setting out proposals for the future work of the stability pact. our main aim was to take the opportunity, two and a half years into the work of the pact, and with the arrival of a new special coordinator, to build on its achievements by enhancing the complementarity between the work of the stability pact and the eu stabilisation and association process, by focusing the pact's activities as tightly as possible and by putting a particular emphasis on encouraging regional cooperation. the general affairs council approved the recommendations in our letter on 19 november and asked the new special coordinator, dr buseck, who took up the reins on 1 january, to assess the current activities and working methods of the pact and to identify five or six objectives to be achieved by the end of this year. the council asked him to report back to its meeting on 11 march. the commission is now working closely with the special coordinator in the preparation of this report. detailed consultations are taking place within the informal consultative committee which was established following the high representative's and my own recommendations in order to improve coordination between the pact and the stabilisation and association process. two meetings have already taken place: on 11 and 31 january. in conclusion, work is well in hand. the stability pact and the commission are working very closely together to deliver the improvements the honourable member refers to. i have every confidence that the report which dr buseck gives to the council on 11 march will set out a number of practical proposals to that end.
i thank the commissioner for his answer. i am slightly perturbed that it seems to be taking so long to get this matter addressed. as we have just heard, it is not going to be until 11 march that we get further developments. i should like to ask the commissioner, first, what measures are going to be recommended which will increase ownership by local people on the ground in the stability pact. it has been seen as remote and, unless we have proper ownership, quite frankly it will continue to be remote. secondly, one of the areas of concern has been the quality of implementation in the stability pact. is he happy that we are moving in the right direction in terms of implementation? thirdly, there is a view that there was a chronic lack of information on the ground about the stability pact. is a strategy being put in place to deal with that?
commission. – in the context of the 2002 budget, the commission has supported a benchmark that 35% of spending in development assistance committee group 1 countries, including macroeconomic assistance with social sector conditionality, is allocated to social infrastructure, mainly education and health. this recognises that the community contribution must be seen as part of the overall donor support in a given country and that a degree of flexibility must be the norm. the commission is committed to work towards meeting this benchmark in assistance to the social sectors in all its programmes, including asia and latin america. with a view to honouring this commitment, a number of initiatives will be undertaken. in particular, these will include, first, improved emphasis on the social sector in all commission programmes, in line with the priorities in the community's development strategy. second, the establishment during 2002 – and i know this is a point on which the honourable member has himself laid great emphasis – of a solid statistical basis allowing dac sectoral classification of programmes and projects from 2002. a reclassification exercise of all 2001 commitments will be undertaken with a view to enabling comparison to be made. third, we want to make available to parliament all approved country strategy papers, including multiannual programmes and associated financial envelopes. finally, the continuation during 2002 of work on the definition of internationally agreed performance indicators and implementation of sector-wide programmes in the social sector. the commission is in contact, as the honourable member knows, with parliament's committee on development and cooperation, on the organisation of a seminar in the spring of this year, where the commission will report on progress made in these areas and, i hope, continue to gain from the experience and enthusiasm and commitment of the members of the development committee, including, of course, the honourable member.
the last time i debated with mr patten on this subject in committee he accused me of having an overdose of testosterone. i am glad he has not repeated that tonight. stamina is what we need in dealing with this issue. he is right in saying that there are a number of areas of agreement between the commission and parliament, not least in the dac reporting where progress is such that we very much welcome it. we welcome too their cooperation in relation to the seminar. i am concerned that the emphasis in his answer was on definitions, about reporting, about statistics – i.e. analysis – rather than the tougher decisions that are equally required to shift resources. it is important that we do not simply talk about the process in terms of information being available – important as that is, and agreed as we are on that issue – but that the commissioner actually tells us, as those country strategy papers are passed, as the quality support group evaluates new programmes, as delegations (and he did not answer the point about the role of delegations in this) take their decisions, as new staff are recruited, how will he ensure that real resources are allocated in greater number to basic health and basic education? we need to see some shift of resources during the course of this year. give us some hope that it will happen.
commission. – first of all i am not against testosterone in trying to achieve some progress in this area. we need to show a great deal of energy and commitment. secondly, as far as the role of delegations is concerned, as the honourable member knows, i place particular emphasis, on the deconcentration exercise, which is a particularly ill-starred, euro-gabble way of referring to trying to manage our programmes in the field and as closely as possible to the people whom we want to see benefit from them. the delegations will play a key role in drawing up the country strategy papers, which will have to reflect the priorities of our development philosophy and development strategy. the honourable member asks us to give him hope that we will be seeing a real shift. the purpose of providing a better statistical basis for analysing and planning what we are doing is to demonstrate that we are making an effort to achieve the objectives which the honourable member and i have in common and which are also the objectives of my distinguished colleague, commissioner nielsen. so there would be no point for example in the cris exercise in which we are engaged if we were not intending it to have an impact on policy. i think the honourable member accepts that one is looking for steady trends, rather than being too nailed down to specific figures in specific years in specific countries. one wants to see a shift of emphasis and a clear indication that the commission's programmes are as associated as other peoples' with the objectives of poverty alleviation. i will make one additional point, which i attempted to make yesterday morning in the parliament of the country i know best. there is still a tendency when people look at what we are doing to compare apples with oranges. it is very often the case that other countries or member states appear to have a far higher proportion of development assistance committed to poverty alleviation than we do because they look at what we are doing in the balkans, in russia, in the nis, in parts of the mediterranean, and compare it as though it was exactly the same as our more straightforward development assistance programmes. because we are carrying the burden in those areas, admittedly with member states' money, they are not having to do as much there as they would presumably have to do for political reasons, and therefore the figures sometimes flatter them at our expense. that is part of the price we pay for having an external actions budget which has development assistance at its core but has other priorities as well.
could the commissioner tell me if what he said adds up to a guarantee that there will be a better balance between commitments and payments in asia and latin america and that we will have better utilisation of the funds voted for in the budget?
madam president, i should like to challenge some of the assertions that have been made by mr rapkay. firstly, there is very much more that unites us on the committee on economic and monetary affairs than you would think from some of the assertions he has just made. we can see that from the report that we are considering. there are 22 paragraphs in this report. mr rapkay had only six areas where his report was significantly amended. we have six amendments to consider tomorrow. let us look at the things that unite us. i certainly do not believe that state aid is the work of the devil. in a sense that was excessive rhetoric on the part of mr rapkay. we actually both believe in a competitive europe. we are in favour of making our economy competition-friendly. mr rapkay's excellent report – which i will support in its current form tomorrow – is a consistent report building on the one produced by the committee last year. of course there will be some differences of emphasis between us. we do not all share the same political outlook. but there is a trend in relation to the views that have been forward by the economic committee which are at the core of mr rapkay's report and for which i congratulate him. yes, i certainly believe in the rigorous application of state aid. i congratulate commissioner monti for the stance that he has taken in this area. it is something that broadly reflects the position of our economic committee. our committee is committed to taking forward the lisbon process. building a competitive europe must be a part of that, so it is important that we have proper state aid control. part of that is through the transparency that comes from the state aid scoreboard, of which mr rapkay has been a keen exponent. he has raised the issue consistently. we are delighted that commissioner monti has made progress in this area. there is more work to be done in developing the scoreboard. i am not absolutely sure that the competition dg competition is at the front of the queue in terms of the internet-friendly nature of its particular website. i am absolutely confident that more progress will be made. i went on to the internet the other day to find out about the competition day that is coming up. it was not a particularly friendly site to deal with. i should like to mention the steel aid code. i have consistently said to commissioner monti that the industry is looking for guidance here. we want the current regime to stay in place in some format. i hope that commissioner monti will feel after mature reflection that, given the difficulties with the united states of america, that is something he could support.
madam president, the commissioner is in danger of hearing the same speech many times in different languages. this is the english version. i am speaking here on behalf of mrs roth-behrendt, as her father died yesterday and she has had to return home. i am sure the whole house will join me in expressing sympathy to her. these are the things i want to say. first and foremost, we still do not know enough about bse and about how it is spread. we certainly do not know enough about its incidence in all the member states of the community. we know that we still have it in the uk and although in the coming year it may be that other member states have more cases than us, that is not a cause for satisfaction for us, but rather for commiseration with those who are still discovering the full horror of what this may mean for them. in the uk we have had over a hundred cases of the human form of cjd. we pray that other member states will not go through that agony either. the commissioner will be entitled to say to us, when we talk about inadequate testing, that the commission has said time after time that the real truth about bse was hidden because there was no effective testing. if this debate does one thing at least, as mr graefe zu baringdorf and others have said, it may impress upon us that the member states need to be able to do this. i am glad that mr olsson accepts that there is an equality of effectiveness between the way the uk takes out animals at 30 months and the slaughter of affected herds and testing of individual animals before they enter the food chain in other european countries. i would not want to see any misunderstandings about that. i believe we need more effective checks for contamination. there are some late, worrying statistics in the uk and elsewhere about animals born after the checks were put into effect, which are still now showing symptoms of bse. there are obvious suspicions about the hoarding of meat and bonemeal and about where and how the testing is effected. mr olsson wants the fbo to be in effect the monitoring agency. i do not mind that, but i believe that nothing should subtract from the responsibility of the individual member states to ensure that their testing and external controls are effective and are carried through. then there is the question of animal waste to herbivores. we will be debating this when mrs paulsen's report comes back for its chequered second reading. i would simply say that i am in that party in this house that believes, with mr olsson, that we should outlaw the feeding of animal waste of any form to ruminant animals. it is high time that was done. finally, on the issue of sheep, i would just say to mr olsson that when we look at that lamentable failure over the testing of what turned out to be cows' brains, all that tells us is that there was incompetence of a grotesque kind. it does not tell us that we have proof positive that bse has not jumped species once again and got into the sheep population. i would like to hear the commissioner's views on those things and i apologise for repeating some of the other excellent remarks made in this debate.
madam president, i welcome the report as it raises many important issues as we work towards a comprehensive and a safe food policy in the eu. control of infectious diseases goes hand in hand with proper monitoring. close consideration should be given to how infectious diseases are monitored by european union institutions. we must likewise question the methods of countries outside the eu and impose stricter import controls like those carried out in australia and new zealand. however, we must remember, if regulations are drawn up, that it is important to impose penalties on member states which fail to implement eu legislation on feed and foodstuffs, otherwise regulations are not worth the paper they are written on. i call on members to let common sense prevail. of course we need to test animals for bse, but let us base the tests on sound scientific practices. there is no proof that testing animals at 24 months is foolproof. on the contrary, animals can develop bse after 24 months. i have had no satisfactory answers as to what this calculation is based upon. the 30-month threshold currently imposed seems to be working. the forecasts are that the uk will be bse-free by 2005, and this has been achieved using the 30-month threshold. meat under 30 months can now be exported from the uk and it is true to say that it has proved to be a safe product for the consumer. another concern is the compulsory testing of sheep. again i urge caution and call again on sound scientific evidence. the whole uk flock was nearly wiped out last year because of the discovery of bse in sheep. however, luckily someone questioned the validity of the findings and it was then discovered that the test was actually carried out on a cow's brain after all. this episode did little to restore farmers' confidence in proper scientific research. we need to develop a comprehensive animal health strategy and ask ourselves what we have learned from bse. the main thing, without a doubt, is not to tamper with nature on ethical grounds. herbivores must not be made to eat meat or fishmeal. however, we must now concentrate on the future and work on a policy and strategy to undo the damage to the food chain. finally, the farming community has suffered a great blow over the past few years. let us work together now towards a food safety policy and a reform of the common agricultural policy which moves us away from a so-called consumer-led policy that led to intensification – but let us not move either to a consumer-led policy based on unfounded theories. we must regain consumer confidence by producing a policy that will embrace all aspects.
madam president, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr olsson, on his excellent work in compiling this report. as a farmer myself, and someone who had a beef herd, i can testify to the wholesale damage and destruction that bse has done – not only to the beef industry in my own country, but also in member states throughout the union. so i welcome his efforts in fighting bse. this is a scourge that we must defeat across the whole of europe. i welcome any moves that will strengthen the efforts already made in the uk and by the commission to stamp out bse. however, the report also raises some serious questions that are to be addressed if we are to maintain the efforts to improve food safety. firstly, i do not believe that the whole-herd slaughter policy has any scientific base for adoption. bse is not a contagious disease and cannot be spread between cattle. as we have seen with foot-and-mouth, to adopt the scatter-gun approach to disease control policy of mass culling does nothing to instil confidence in the consumer and only serves to spread further concern. in fact, if a farmer has to lose his whole herd for one case of bse he may be less inclined to declare the animal and may bury it instead. i ask commissioner byrne to review the whole slaughter policy for bse in the eu. secondly, there have recently been worrying cases in the uk of beef being illegally imported from ireland, which breaches the uk's very strict regulations. in the uk at present we have a scheme in place which prohibits beef over 30 months from entering the food chain. in one recent case, beef over 30 months from a plant in cork was shipped illegally for processing and then resale within the uk. it is a testament to the tough and stringent controls in place in my own country that this particular breach was picked up so quickly and effectively. but i call on the commission and other member states to ensure that their own authorities are as vigilant against this dangerous trade. finally, there have been far too many cases of meat containing specified risk material being exported into the united kingdom. the growing number of cases and the fact that they come from so many member states – germany, the netherlands, belgium, spain and ireland, to name but a few – must be a huge concern for us all. i am not seeking to apportion blame in any way, but if we wish to see the farming industry – particularly the beef industry – flourish in europe, we must all shoulder the responsibility to enforce the rules. what i am calling for is a mood of resilience and an ardour to implement the eu regulations and the tough controls that we have in place, and for us to work together to improve the inspection regimes in all member states. i call upon the commission to take a more robust attitude to the enforcement of this regulation. we have found in the united kingdom that the only way to rebuild the beef industry is to rebuild consumer confidence. we will only do that by guaranteeing the public a safe product that they can trust.
madam president, i welcome the report on the commission communication on the concrete objectives of education and training systems. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her conscientious work. in line with the goals of the lisbon and stockholm european councils, it is vitally important that we enable the generation of young europeans to choose european research careers and european scientific disciplines. i also agree that companies have to play a key role in training students and employees. however, before submitting the report we should pay attention to the following points. there seems to be a gap between the proposals in this report and the progress made by the commission and its expert group so far. my understanding is that the commission has already started its work on social inclusion and reset its goals on the leonardo da vinci programme by, for example, including older people and disabled people within its scope. this is welcome. we look forward to the european year of disability in 2003. in addition to that, one should not neglect the efforts made by the commission on cooperation with the candidate countries at all levels. while not wanting to undermine the good work of the commission, i must say that more can be done. we should also underline the importance of encouraging increased integration of european union, member states and regional initiatives in order to make efficient use of the relatively small budget for education and training systems. in this respect i would suggest better cooperation between the different kinds of funding and an exchange of best practice, together with better dialogue between the supranational, national and regional decision-makers within the community. finally, i would like to see more attention paid to the lack of equal opportunities for all individuals to experience better european integration throughout their professional lives. there are possibilities within the budget to facilitate exchanges of experience of vocational training systems in the different member states. i encourage this. europe can offer better education for everybody. parliament's report should not forget to underline that.
i wish to begin by congratulating you on the state-of-the-european-parliament address, which perhaps, like other state-of-the-union addresses, should become an annual event. i personally think you have made a very positive start as president of the european parliament. if we are to carry out the reform agenda that you have discussed, then we need an esprit de corps in this house. the way in which you have engaged the bureau of parliament, the conference of presidents, the committee chairs in your agenda, already in your first month, shows a determination to work across the whole of this house in order to deliver reform, and that is very encouraging. but, at the same time, you have also done the same with the institutions. although we should not overstate these things, there is already an improved relationship between the commission and the council and this institution – and, perhaps most importantly – you have shown a willingness to take tough decisions. that is something which, i am afraid, will become more and more a feature of your presidency, but we will have more and more occasion to take hard decisions. if i have any criticism of your speech, it was not in terms of the content – there was hardly a word i disagreed with – but that i perhaps detected an element of "mission creep" in your speech. if you try to do everything, you may end up not succeeding in doing very much. i would encourage you to stick to just two or three key items: enlargement being the vital one; the internal reform of this house being the second; and also, as others have said, the communication strategy of this house to connect better with the citizens of the european union. if you achieve progress in these three areas, you will have achieved very much indeed. your speech also correctly got to the dilemma that we face. if we are to improve our standing as an institution, then we have to reform internally. that means a little navel-gazing. however, if we spend two-and-a-half years navel-gazing, then we will be even further away from the citizens out there. so we have to combine the two. we have to conduct reform within the structures of this house while on the floor of this house, as you rightly say, connecting with the citizens by discussing the major items that face them in their daily lives – to actually talk about the issues that matter out there, not the issues that matter in here. it is out there that really matters to us. mr dell'alba made a point i had wanted to make. when you talked about inviting the members of the applicant countries' parliaments to be present at the enlargement debate here, i agreed with you, but my immediate reaction was to wonder where were they going to sit. then i looked around the chamber and realised that there would be no problem in finding seats for them in this house. there we have a double dilemma: one that you have identified, which is to make our debates more lively and interesting; but another one, which we have tried in the past to solve and need to try again: to make this plenary the focus of our four days' work in strasbourg. there is plenty of other time for committee and delegation meetings, and for meeting lobbyists, etc., but when we are in strasbourg, the plenary should be the centre-point of our activities. in fact, for most members it is a side-show when they come to strasbourg; the average member spends less than five hours in this chamber during a strasbourg week. it should be where they are most of the time; it should be the focus of our activity; you should feel that if you have not been present at the plenary, you have missed out on something. instead, sometimes you feel that when you have been in the plenary you have missed out on something that has been going on elsewhere. so we have to refocus to make this the centre of activity: a livelier chamber where we really discuss the day-to-day issues. one last but important point, because both you, mr president, and mr poettering in different ways referred to it. i welcome the decision on the von wogau report – it was a right decision. but i do not believe, as you indicated, that better regulation or the long-term solution to what mr von wogau was dealing with in the lamfalussy proposals can be left to the convention. we have to focus on that in the next two or three months because the june summit will deal with governance and better regulation, and it may be, if we do not focus on that now, that by the time we get to the convention the pass will have been sold in june, so it is important that we look at this issue now and do not think that von wogau was even a five- or six-month solution. it was a short two- or three-month solution to a very important point in terms of the powers of parliament. thank you very much and, again, congratulations on the progress you have made so far. (applause)
mr president, i too would like to congratulate you on an excellent start to your presidency. this debate has shown that there is much support and much appetite in this house for reform, in this lively exchange we are having in the catch-the-eye procedure at the end of this debate. you were kind enough to refer to my own report, which hopefully will be on the agenda at the next part-session. we are building quite a broad consensus on the bulk of the proposals contained in my report. in the last few days many groups have been kind enough to invite me to address their meetings and to engage in building this consensus. i am now quite confident that there will be a majority next month in favour of a useful package of reforms that will not solve all our problems – far from it – but will be a useful step forward. to those colleagues who feared that there may be elements of my report which are unfavourable to the smaller groups, i would like to reassure them. there is nothing that significantly undermines the position of the smaller groups in my report. if they continue to have fears, i shall be very happy to meet them to try to find a solution to any issue they wish to raise. my preferred solution is to persuade them, but i am open to other solutions if we can find them. this will be a useful part of the reform process and i thank you very much for your support.
mr president, on a point of order: i just wanted to engage in 30 seconds of navel-gazing. i agree with everything that has been said about reform. but when we talk about reform, let us not forget the conditions in which backbench meps work in this house. david martin reproached us for not spending more time in the chamber, but one of the problems is the amount of time we waste getting to this place. i will not relaunch that debate, but anyone looking at this splendid chamber and the palatial public spaces of this building would not believe the cramped conditions in which a backbench mep works. please do not forget, you important people who have spacious offices – even the secretaries-general of the political groups have office space four times that of a backbench mep – that when you have an assistant and a stagiaire crammed into one office, you have no place in which to meet visitors. mr president, will you at least pledge to back us in getting computers for meps, preferably flat-screen computers so we can fit them on to our desks in our tiny offices and be more efficient for the 21st century? i am sorry to raise such a brass-tacks issue: i know parliamentarians are always shy about raising the matter of their own working conditions but, frankly, unless we can be efficient in dealing with our work, we cannot deliver good service and present a good showcase to the world. i would not like people to look at the masses of space in the public areas and then come and see our little cramped offices, out of which we lose a third for a useless bathroom – but that is another matter. please help us to be efficient, mr president.
rapporteur. – mr president, my report is a draft response by this parliament to two legislative acts: a proposed council framework directive on combating terrorism and a proposed council framework directive on the european arrest warrant and surrender procedures between member states. together with the creation of the european judicial authority, eurojust, these two measures form the legislative basis of the european union's response to the menace of terrorism. the european union may allow itself a few moments of satisfaction. these measures represent a major step forward towards the creation of a european judicial space. i would like to thank the president-in-office for reminding us that this judicial space did not start on 11 september last year, although it would be churlish not to recognise that the attacks on new york and washington on 11 september gave a political momentum which allowed us to knock heads together and overcome certain objections. many of us regret that such a stimulus was needed. nonetheless we welcome the progress it has brought. what do these measures do? the european arrest warrant applies to a wider range of offences than previous extradition agreements. it makes surrender a judicial, rather than a political process. it largely abolishes the dual incrimination principle. it sets a time limit of 90 days for extradition, giving us the chance to judge all suspects of an offence at the same time. it consolidates the idea of european union law. the framework decision on terrorism makes terrorism an offence in every country. currently it has been an offence in only six. it defines for the first time in international law a terrorist act and the offences which constitute a terrorist act. it seeks to approximate laws with common minimum penalties. i commend these measures to the house. the terrorist threat is deadly serious. it requires a serious response. these two measures constitute such a serious response. i regret – and we have in previous debates here regretted – the absence of proper democratic oversight and control of the union's procedures of law-making in this area. this house argued for the invocation of article 42 of the treaty, allowing these measures to be brought within the first pillar. nonetheless, we recognise that the process of debate has brought improvements, that our amendments at the first reading have introduced certain safeguards into these measures. i welcome the words from the president-in-office of the council about closer involvement of parliament in the process of passing such legislation. other measures, such as the freezing of assets, have been far less coordinated. indeed, it is not unfair to say, from reports of coreper meetings, that the european union has been all at sea in its approach to freezing of assets and other decisions. the motion for a resolution on the table today reflects that. we know since the end of the 1990s that three phenomena – terrorism, internationally organised crime and corruption – are increasingly linked. what academics have called the terrorist criminal nexus is well established. the fight against the terrorist criminal infrastructure must be our top priority. we know, too, that internationally organised crime is by far the biggest factor, economically and probably politically, in this terrorist criminal nexus. money laundering represents between 2 and 5% of aggregate global gnp. that is between eur 500 billion and eur 1.5 trillion. it is not enough just to freeze assets of terrorist groups. we must fight the economic dimension of terrorism if we are to get on top of the problem. the united nations has started to do this through its financial action task force. the recommendations from the washington meeting of 30 october to be implemented by june of this year are essential and provide an area where we can work together with the united states of america in combating this threat. but here i would appeal for the european union to take the initiative: to take the initiative on ways forward, to try to bring the americans back into the international community in this fight against terrorism, and to do so within a proper legal framework, with proper democratic and parliamentary control. a number of amendments have been submitted to my report. amendments nos 1 and 5 are identical and they cause me no problem. amendment no 2 which comes subsequent to our adoption of the report in committee seems to be slightly out of context and i recommend a vote against. amendment no 4 calls for the establishment of a european habeas corpus act. my group will support this, as we did in committee, although we consider the reintroduction of the amendment to be rather like adding too much monosodium glutamate to the cooking. but amendment no 3 is the crux of the debate: the movers say that the european union should not proceed without the guarantee of adequate standards in procedural law. that means that the union cannot respond to the terrorist threat. i disagree with them. we must respond. but, in giving our agreement, we do so on the basis of faith that these measures will be rebalanced with procedural guarantees. this matter is very poignant to me personally. faith is not a comfortable basis on which to proceed in politics. i am aware that my name, and perhaps the name of my party, may be associated with laws that could be used for repressive purposes. i appeal to the council and commission, in the spirit of the new relationship that we have between our institutions, to move rapidly to consolidate the necessary move forward in security with measures to promote freedom and justice on which the european union will be judged. in commending these framework directives to the house, in recommending that we trust the other institutions, i say to them: you are on trial. the european union is on trial before the court of world democratic opinion. (applause)
mr president, the council should realise that it is heading for a great row if it carries on as in its complex package of 27 december, making legal definitions of who is a terrorist without any democratic scrutiny. i predict that the council's next step will be to institute europe-wide bans. it would be outrageous to do that in secret and without accountability. turning to the framework decisions on combating terrorism and the european arrest warrant, my group will support them. for a normally sensible british journalist yesterday to say that europe blindly, on the nod, is about to indulge in its own sinister overreach, really is over the top. my group will not vote to postpone the entry into force of the european arrest warrant until there are common minimum standards of procedural law. urgent action to catch terrorists and criminals cannot be postponed, but the habeas corpus amendment drafted so deftly by mr maccormick is very worthwhile. however, high minimum standards are also urgently needed in parallel. it is a fiction to say that, since we all have excellent justice systems, mutual recognition is enough. i could highlight flaws in the system of my own country – for example we have the highest number in prison of any eu state – as well as flaws in other member states. the council, as well as meps, must welcome proposals that the commission is preparing on achieving equivalence in criminal justice standards. if some of the people who now oppose the european arrest warrant – in particular those on the right, not least in my own country – also cry "shock! horror!" at what they might claim is harmonisation of criminal justice systems, they will be guilty of great hypocrisy. we need the european arrest warrant; we also need a programme of equivalence in common minimum high standards.
mr president, if any good came out of the events of 11 september – and it would be a brave person who said it did – i would single out two things. firstly, it caused the world to look, for the first time perhaps, at the whole question of islam as a religion – but i will leave that for the moment. secondly, it caused europe, the usa and the west to look again at the whole question of international relations. we cannot close our eyes and minds to the problems of small countries thousands of kilometres away or impoverished and troubled regions – whether or not we agree with the regimes there – and just think that they do not matter. if we do, we run the risk that the problems will manifest themselves on our doorsteps. one way that happens is through terrorism, which obviously we cannot ignore. we counter it by international cooperation. mr blokland said earlier that we need to be harder and firmer. in addition to repressive measures, it is fundamental that we look at and try to address the root causes – poverty, war, oppression and a whole range of issues – that lead to terrorism. we all abhor and condemn terrorism. these two reports are a first step towards greater international cooperation in addressing terrorism and increasing international police cooperation. we, as politicians, are elected to monitor at a european level what happens. we must press for the highest possible standards, for maximum cooperation, and constantly keep the situation under review and monitor progress.
mr president, all of us in this house are agreed that it is a good thing to move towards the creation of a common european judicial space. we are also agreed, particularly in respect of the arrest warrant, that it makes the adoption of common and high minimum standards a matter of urgency. mr watson and mrs terrón i cusí have asked us today to take it on trust that it will be done as a matter of urgency. we have to take some things on trust, but i would be reluctant to take all on trust. furthermore, standards alone are never enough because standards can be broken. the only thing that guarantees high standards being observed is effective remedies. one of the most effective remedies ever devised was devised by the english common lawyers – i speak as a scotsman – in the way of making sure that those who are wrongly detained are brought to court and released if the jailer cannot show cause for keeping them there. that is a really effective remedy. in adopting the european arrest warrant each of our states makes its own judiciary the instrument of justice in another state. that is a good thing, that we help each other. but it should also be the case that if the powers of one country's courts are abused by misconduct of prosecutors in another country, they can be recalled with an effective remedy. an effective remedy must be a europe-wide remedy and one that diminishes the risk of undue detention pre-trial like the old 110-day rule which we celebrate in my country. let us have amendment no 4 and make sure that we have remedies that are effective as well as standards that are high.
mr president, this is one of the most illiberal and dishonest measures ever to come out of the eu, one with potentially enormous consequences. it has nothing to do with citizens' freedoms and rights, and everything to do with a monstrous power-grab by brussels. in the book 1984 by george orwell, the state ministries were given names which represented the exact opposite of their functions. thus, the ministry of peace was concerned with war, the ministry of truth was responsible for propaganda, and so on. from this stemmed the term "orwellian inversion", meaning a description which implies the opposite. how appropriate it is, therefore, that this measure should be approved by the committee on citizens' freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs – the ultimate orwellian inversion. in approving this decision, the committee should be ashamed of itself and, if this so-called parliament adopts that decision today, it too should be thoroughly ashamed. it will be betraying the very principles it claims to support.
mr president, given that today is the 50th anniversary of the accession of her majesty the queen to the throne of the united kingdom, could we not make a special note of that and send her felicitations and congratulations on fifty years of a glorious reign? (applause)
- i'll pass your remarks on to the president.
- we now move to the vote. - proposal for a decision on the numerical composition of committees (b5-0060/2002) (parliament adopted the decision)
- as regards the letter of the amendment, you are probably right, but the spirit of the amendment is contradictory. i would therefore ask the rapporteur, mr olsson, for his opinion on this matter.
- i'd add scotland to your list of places where heating costs are very high.
mr president, when we are reflecting on the problems of improving procedures in the house it is worth noticing that an explanation of vote of this kind is one way one can reply to a point taken by the commissioner at the end of a debate. at the end of the debate on the watson report, mr vitorino said that the amendment relating to the habeas corpus order would risk confusing the issue and undermine respect for human rights. in that he completely ignored the point that the first condition stated for the operation of that amendment was for there to be a violation of human rights in the receiving state. the point i made in my speech in the debate was that it is not enough to have common agreement to respect rights; you must have effective remedies. that text of ours would have put in an effective remedy. since parliament in its wisdom (or unwisdom) chose not to adopt it, i voted against the watson report on the arrest warrant. other members from the united kingdom will come to regret that they did not too. some of my colleagues in the european free alliance – a majority of them – voted for the watson report; not that they did not also regret the absence of the habeas corpus amendment, but that they felt a strong commitment in conscience, as we all do, to getting the european judicial space going forward, and thought that necessary.
in writing. - the uk conservatives voted strongly in favour of the framework decision on terrorism to underline our unwavering support for the war on terrorism, as well as to confirm our determination to ensure that the european union presents a united front against those who seek to undermine our values and way of life. however, we were obliged to vote against the proposal on the european arrest warrant. the procedures as proposed go far beyond what is necessary to combat the terrorist threat and far beyond what is desirable to protect human rights or to respect appropriate legal processes, as is the case with extradition conciliation procedures at present. however, our determination not to falter in the long war on terrorism is unquestionable, but we do not believe that the european arrest warrant, as currently proposed, will achieve the objectives we are all striving to achieve.
in writing. - there is no doubt that bse caused a crisis of consumer confidence and an economic disaster in the agricultural and food industries. it is in the interest of all concerned to ensure that lessons are learned and that sensible measures are put in place to eradicate bse. such measures must, of course, be supported by sound scientific data. it seems to me that the threshold of 30 months is justified and augurs well for the successful eradication of bse in the united kingdom within a reasonable time. the main lesson to be drawn from bse and other recent food crises is that we must encourage a return to traditional methods of producing food and feed. in scotland, for example, most of the livestock has traditionally been fed grass, resulting in a relatively low incidence of bse in that country.
- explanations of vote are closed. (the sitting was suspended at 1.13 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
- we now continue with the debate on the council and commission statements on the financing of development aid in preparation for the united nations international conference on this subject to be held in monterrey on 21 and 22 march.
- i also regret that the council is not present. his representatives knew we were starting at 3:00.
acting president of the council. - mr president, i have listened very carefully to all the views expressed here by the members who have spoken in this debate. the majority of the speeches were based on considerations which the council has certainly taken into account when it took the decisions which were its responsibility in order to reach the monterrey consensus. most of the requests i have heard are requests which, of course, the european union and the council - which represents the european union - and the commission - which also represents the european union at the monterrey conference - share. naturally, i think it is very commendable that these views should be expressed in this parliamentary forum, which must be the forum that expresses our ambitions and our aspirations. but i think that parliament too understands well and i imagine that it is sensitive to the fact that we are involved in an international negotiation in which it is not enough for the european union to have and to express its ideas, of which we are proud, but we must seek agreement with the whole world. i must say that the european union is in a very particular position in this type of conference. it is in the middle, with partners at its own level of development, who very often do not share our ideas and do not go as far in their generosity, and then other developing countries which naturally do not share because they have, surely, the right to demand much from us and, often, much more than we can sometimes normally give. i think that the monterrey consensus contains all the basic and fundamental elements and, with all that we have heard in parliament today, i think that we have enough baggage, both the presidency of the council and the commission, to continue to reaffirm our ideas. we know that there is a consensus and that the consensus is very general, but that does not exclude the possibility that in monterrey we can go even further in our ambitions. i have already listed them at the end and i want to repeat them again. the european union intends to send a message in defence of the values which are its own and which i have listed above: defence of democracy, good governance, strengthening of the institutional capacities of the countries receiving aid, the rule of law, peace and security and human rights. all these are the essential values of our culture and civilization which we have heard here in the european parliament and which will guide us in the debates in monterrey. in any case, i think we have a good basis for satisfaction, since the monterrey consensus covers all this, perhaps not as far as we would like, but it covers it in a substantial way. let us hope that at this meeting next march the european union, which has a common and unique position and which has the support of parliament, will be able to go even further in these principles and objectives which i have already expressed and which i have seen have the support of this parliament. i would also like to say, finally, that the community delegation intends to include five members of the european parliament and that the european parliament will therefore be fully integrated into the delegation and will have first-hand information. i am naturally at the disposal of this house and of you, mr president, to come back here after monterrey and give full information on the outcome of the conference.
commission. – mr president, it is very important to stick to the view that volume matters when we talk about these problems. it is also very important to remember that fighting global poverty is not a short-term repair job in the poor countries. we often hear the view that, since we have been giving development aid to africa for 25 or 30 years and they are still poor, maybe the whole approach is wrong. that is a fundamental mistake. this is not a short-term project. any global society with just a minimum of decency has to understand that the transfer of resources from the rich to the poor must be a permanent feature. that approach alters the focus of the discussion about what is wrong with development cooperation. in fact, it holds the key to understanding what globalisation means, and it means taking an inclusive approach to viewing the real world. we had better get used to the idea that a permanent transfer is part of the challenge facing us. this is not the same as accepting that development cooperation should simply deteriorate into becoming some sort of social gap-filling. the whole agenda for structural or political reform vis-à-vis governance is absolutely essential to achieving real progress. but it makes a big difference if seen as something we will have to do for some more years or as part of the future. the whole attitude of different countries to the idea of sharing in this and of this being inseparable from the world view in general is crucial. mrs dybkjaer and mrs boudjenah mentioned the 0.7 % target for the eu. this is on our agenda for the first time. it has never really been discussed at eu level before, either between the commission and the member states or between member states themselves. so we have made it a new area of discussion. we have established some sort of peer pressure and the response from the series of discussions in capital cities that we carried out before laeken was in a sense encouraging because all member states reacted positively to the need to establish some sort of calendar. in this area decision-making still lies with the member states – the commission has acquired no new powers here – but this discussion is now legitimate and we will bring it to the fore as one aspect of our input for the conference in monterrey. this discussion will not end at monterrey; it is a reflection of how europe sees itself and the role it should play in the world that we want to move forward in this area. in response to mr van den berg and mr van den bos, who both commented on the imbalance between military and development spending and the whole philosophy behind this, i would point to the general view that the cradle of european and western civilisation was ancient greece. personally, i think it was home to the kind of europe i want to represent and is the part of greek history with which i want to identify. i think and hope that for europe the cradle was in fact athens rather than sparta. this is my response to what members said about the balance between the military approach and this more humanistic or morally driven way of defining our role and our philosophy in this world. this is the baggage we will be taking to monterrey and this is, philosophically speaking, the message we will deliver there.
- i have received six motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 37 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday.
- the agenda calls for statements by the council and the commission on preparations for the meeting of the united nations commission on human rights (geneva, march 2002).
mr president, i am pleased to say that i have attended the un commission on two previous occasions, with both mr van van hecke and mr wuori, who are taking part in the debate this afternoon. the council said that we boast a long tradition in europe on human rights, but it must be recognised that sometimes we hesitate in condemning the human rights abuses carried out by our so-called friendly states. i would urge that we must never hesitate; we must apply the same rules and standards regardless. double standards undermine our highest ethics and our aspirations for a world free from human rights abuses. i agree absolutely with everything the commission has said. however, in relation to the cotonou and association agreements, i would say that we must enact the human rights and democracy clauses when human rights abuses occur. anything else will be seen as a pitiful endorsement of such abuses. we cannot, and must not, look the other way, for one day people will look the other way when it happens to us. the young people and the others who look down on the chamber today wonder what we talk about. we talk about a world where we can celebrate difference, where there is no persecution because someone's colour, creed, belief or sexuality is different from another's. i would just like to finish, regardless of any prepared speech, on what is absolutely essential and vital to remember. pastor niemöller said: "when they came for the communists, i did not speak out because i was not a communist. when they came for the jews, i did not speak out because i was not a jew. when they came for the trade unionists, i did not speak out because i was not a trade unionist. when they came for me – there was no one left to speak out. " we must ensure that we are never hypocritical in the defence of human rights, and 11 september must teach us surely that the same rules must be applied regardless of whether a country is our enemy or our friend.
mr president, the united nations conference opens a week after the presidential elections in zimbabwe. by then hand-wringing resolutions deploring human rights abuses by a re-elected mugabe government would be no more meaningful than were the protests of the then league of nations following mussolini's invasion of abyssinia. the european union has issued deadlines and ultimata. we must now gather support from the international community for those measures. we should thank president mbeki and other african leaders for their work behind the scenes, but now is the time for them to speak out publicly and firmly against mugabe's oppressive regime. we must make sure that the conditions of our ultimata are met in full. we must be sure that mugabe will allow an eu team to observe the election process and the eu must be allowed to choose the make-up of that team, which should include british members. our observers must be free to move where they wish and free to report back. a genuine free press must be restored and recent media laws must be repealed. above all, the murder, maiming and intimidation of political opponents must stop now. it is time for the world to judge mugabe by his actions, not by his promises. by the same token, the world will judge the eu by its effectiveness, not by its rhetoric.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. – mr president, i should like to say, as draftsperson of an opinion, what a very great pleasure it has been to work alongside such a distinguished parliamentarian as mr napolitano, the author of this excellent report. there are few differences between the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and his report. in particular we want to endorse firmly the point in his conclusion that the so-called second chamber of the european legislature would be an unworkable third chamber and we are very glad that the suggestion has been so carefully refuted from inside one of the countries from which it emerged, namely the united kingdom. on the report itself, the recommendations of the committee on legal affairs were largely adopted by the rapporteur in the committee on constitutional affairs. our paragraph 1, dealing with collaboration among the parliaments of the union, is well covered in his paragraph 10; our paragraph 2, on the importance of participation of representatives of the european parliament and national parliaments in the future convention, has been adopted by mr napolitano. this is very important because it speaks of the need for vigorous debate in the convention to see whether we can produce a consensus. some rumours emanating from the direction of mr giscard d'estaing suggest that his idea is that there need not be a debate because all will be clear from the presidency. if that is so, we must disabuse him of that notion. this has to be a convention that will debate. in paragraph 4, that reappears as paragraph 12 in the napolitano report. finally, the one point of difference between the committee on legal affairs and mr napolitano was whether there ought to be articulate and express mention of the role of regional parliaments with legislative power in this report. i think strongly there ought to be. the committee on legal affairs voted for it clearly and my own group has tabled some amendments. mr napolitano said to me privately that he thinks this could be taken up on a different occasion through the committee on constitutional affairs. if he were able to make an assurance to that effect tomorrow, it might be possible for us to reconsider things. i shall speak to him privately about that. it would be good if we could go forward with maximum agreement. i ask, in the mean time, that parliament concentrate on this paragraph 3 and the parallel amendments tabled by myself and colleagues.
mr president, as colleagues know, today across europe there is popular discontent with regard to europe's apparent disconnection from ordinary life. the european political process is widely seen as an elite preoccupation of little or no relevance to many outside the political classes. quite rightly concern about this crosses national boundaries and the ideological divide. it is a wish to try to remedy this discontent that lies behind mr napolitano's report, which we in the ppe-de group support. there have been a number of responses to this unhappy and unacceptable state of affairs, one of which included the suggestion of establishing a second european parliamentary chamber comprising national parliamentarians. the conclusions of this report, as the rapporteur has already mentioned, echo a recently published report from the house of lords in my own country. they recognise the important role of national parliaments, but reject the argument for a further second chamber. rather than further encumbering the european political process, this report recognises that it is for the european parliament in its sphere, and national parliaments in theirs, in accordance with their own national traditions, to scrutinise their own governments' conduct of european business and activities in the council of ministers. consensus has rightly emerged that an important component of the way to reconnect europe with national political life, and through that with european citizens, is through an alliance between the european parliament and national parliaments and national politics, which at present seem to give insufficient weight to thorough and comprehensive scrutiny of european matters. in this report mr napolitano, as befits the distinguished chairman of the committee on constitutional affairs and rapporteur, has most skilfully woven together an approach to improving relations between the european parliament and national parliaments and to strengthening cooperation between them. the pedantic constitutional purist from any one member state might cavil at some of the detail, but this report provides a template for action which cannot be carried out by any single parliament. changes must take place in a wider framework of change and democratic openness on all sides. if political and democratic openness and acceptability matter – and no political group in this house believes in them more than we in the ppe-de group do – the napolitano report represents an important starting point. but we must not complacently rest on our laurels now. this report represents words; we must now see action. change, in line with the thrust of the report's conclusions and catalysed by the laeken convention as the rapporteur himself pointed out, is needed to start to remedy these democratic deficiencies in the european political system which, if left unattended, could be so damaging.
mr president, the essential message of this splendid report, which the liberal group strongly supports, the central message really is that national parliaments could, and should, contribute more to the political system of the european union. but they ought to focus on what they do best and not tread upon the prerogatives of the european parliament. what national parliaments must improve on doing is to scrutinise and check the executive power of the council. what they do worst is to second-guess the legislative powers of the european parliament. that is why we firmly reject the british proposals to insert a third legislative chamber composed of national mps, whose function would be "to police subsidiarity". such a national cuckoo inside the federal nest would shatter the codecision procedure, which is the key formula in the union's own march towards becoming a mature post-national parliamentary democracy. such a chamber would be stuffed with dutiful poodles of the council, making a mockery of parliamentary involvement in european affairs at the national level. i trust the british government will listen to the debate on this question in the convention and then withdraw its dangerous and obscurantist proposal.
the council has already said that the main thing is to deepen the system of internal cooperation. i have also referred not only to the country i represent but to all the countries of the union. i think that there is not enough overlap between the interests of the autonomous communities in the definition of the policies that the states bring to the council. that is done primarily through dialogue, through the established institutional channels. i think that this should be the objective of all the governments of the union: to have ever closer internal cooperation with the territorial communities, especially those with legislative powers.
president-in-office, i represent one of europe's most ancient and longest surviving kingdoms – scotland – which is a largely autonomous part of the united kingdom, to which it belongs. indeed, scottish ministers sometimes attend and even represent the united kingdom at council meetings. however, my question refers to the convention which is being set up to look at the future of europe, at which no scottish minister or member of the scottish parliament will be present. do you feel that it would be appropriate for regional assemblies, parliaments and governments to be represented at this very important convention that is going to decide the future shape of the europe, of which scotland and your regions in spain are very much a part?
mr president, on a point of order: mr purvis has covered much of what i was going to say. it is interesting to hear the points of view of mr purvis and other colleagues on the issue of scotland's representation on this constitutional convention when the conservative party and the nationalist party could not even get it together to be part of the scottish constitutional convention which set up and made room for the scottish parliament. i would like to ask the minister whether there is a list available to the public and to colleagues here, showing how regional governments are represented in the various council meetings. mr purvis touched upon the fact that scottish ministers attend council meetings in accordance with their areas of expertise and the areas they are involved with. i wondered how other regional governments work in this connection and whether such a list would be available to colleagues.
the council. - mr president, the member states of the european union and the european commission, in a coordinated manner, have strongly supported the international efforts in favour of mrs safia husaini. the possibility of formal action by the european union has been considered in the event that the islamic sharia court of appeal in sokoto upholds the judgment. the european union has already expressed its concern about sentences under the islamic penal code, sharia, during the 57th session of the un commission on human rights in 2001. the member states of the union and the european commission - in coordination - have firmly supported the international efforts in favour of safia husaini, in accordance with the terms of the meeting organized by the heads of mission of the european union in abuja on 23 january. the spanish presidency has proposed to the member states that an administration be held in the nigerian foreign ministry to reiterate the european union's position on the application of the death penalty. this was formally approved by the union's council of ministers last monday and has already been done by the presidency of the council of the union to the government of the federal republic of nigeria. as regards the wider issue of respect for fundamental rights, and more specifically the rights of women in nigeria and the rest of africa, the council is determined to continue the policy it has been pursuing for a long time in this area, in particular through the following instruments: the cotonou agreement, article 9 (2) of which refers the parties to their obligations, their international commitments, with regard to respect for human rights and reaffirms equality between men and women; the cairo declaration and action plan adopted at the africa-europe summit in cairo in april 2000, which stresses respect for human rights; the common position on human rights, democratic principles, the rule of law and good governance in africa 98/350/cfsp; and council regulation (ec) no 965/99 laying down the specific requirements for the implementation of community cooperation in the field of human rights and democracy, in particular by contributing to the objective of the general objective of the treaty on european union, namely the development of democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in nigeria.
council. - i fully agree with the honourable member that the council must continue to provide the necessary protection for all these humanitarian cases affecting individuals and countries with which the european union has a preferential relationship through the cotonou agreements, in this case both sudan and nigeria. i take very good note of both cases, of which i am of course unaware, but i shall do my utmost to obtain all the necessary information through the commission services and through our own diplomatic services. i can assure you that the presidency of the council of the european union will bring these facts to the attention of the member states, and we will take the necessary measures and make diplomatic efforts immediately to preserve the rights of these two poor women whom you have mentioned.
president-in-office, the justice minister of afghanistan recently announced that the new interim government would maintain the sharia law sanctions of stoning women to death for adultery and of limb amputation for theft. the latter penalty was even supported by prime minister karzai in a statement made at a press interview in america. the eu has just pledged eur 1.5bn in aid to afghanistan over five years at the tokyo conference. should this not be made conditional on the disapplication of internationally unacceptable, cruel and unusual punishments such as those i have just referred to?
the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the commission has not taken any initiative in this respect vis-à-vis the council. i would also remind mr howitt that the high level group on disability is not part of the council but of the commission, so it would be both more practical and more appropriate for the commission to provide information on the discussions in the high level group. in its contacts with third countries, the presidency shall raise any matter it deems important and appropriate to deal with.
mr president, i do not think that is the most helpful answer a member of the european parliament has ever been given in this chamber so perhaps i can ask the president-in-office whether he could give me a little more encouragement. is he aware, for example, of the request from 37 million disabled people in europe and many outside our borders that the united nations should enforce better rights for disabled people? is he aware that next year is going to be the european year of disabled people, and is he taking an interest in that? is he aware that since 1996 we have had a rights approach to disability that would suggest that we should support such a convention? in his answer he has given no evidence whatsoever that he is aware of those facts. given that he has admitted to this chamber today that he and his colleagues have not even discussed this issue, at the very least will he respond to the request from this parliament that he should table such a discussion? if the members of the high level group on disabilities convened by the commission are all members of the council, it is within his power to do that if he wishes. perhaps he will now answer the point.
mr president, the musotto report is a good report. the overall thrust is quite correct. the purpose of cohesion funds is to counteract the natural centrifugal forces of a large single economic and monetary unit, which is what the european union and the euro zone are, by helping the less advantaged regions come up to the level of the more prosperous ones. this is the point: if the less advantaged remain less advantaged, the cohesion funds will have failed in their purpose. but that is why, contrary to what mr mussotto and the committee on regional policy demand, we should stick to the 75% of average community gnp as a graduation point. having reached that level the pump will have been adequately primed and the graduating region, with a suitable transitional process, should be well able to continue up the escalator to 100% and higher. surely it is only reasonable that at that point these cohesion fund resources should be reallocated to those regions which lie further behind. that is why i will vote against recitals o and r of mr musotto's report. there must also be financial discipline. an open-ended honey pot is not conducive to encouraging self-help and self-reliance. this is why i cannot countenance leaving open-ended the possibility of an even higher percentage of european union gdp being committed to cohesion policies. 0.45% should be quite adequate and will make us hone our priorities and procedures, even in the context of enlargement. so the second half of paragraph 57, or any compromise of similar effect which leaves the amount be made available open-ended, is not acceptable. given these small but significant changes i will be very pleased to support mr musotto's report as an important contribution to the future well-being of all parts of our european union.
mr president, i also want to address a rigid commission policy. as a result of a recent competition policy decision, over eur 1 billion of much-needed uk regional regeneration investment in poor urban areas and derelict sites has been cut by 75%. following the conclusions of the belgian informal meeting in october, the commission must now undertake a review of the operation of state aids and regional regeneration policy. can the commissioner please state what follow-up action has been taken? can it also reassure us that competition policy will not continue to undermine the legitimate efforts of regional and cohesion policies? secondly, unlike my conservative colleague, mr purvis, i do not believe that we should take a rigid view of the reform of funding post-2006 at this stage. poorer regions such as merseyside in my region, and in the rest of the eu 15, may continue to need objective 1 funding, but more importantly than that, today a delegation of trade unionists from manchester came to strasbourg to fight to save 650 jobs threatened due to industrial restructuring. last year 9 500 jobs were lost in the manufacturing sector in the region alone. can the commissioner therefore tonight give his support for the continuation of a strong role for european assistance post-2006 for our urban and industrial restructuring regions as well as our poorest regions?
as the last speaker i have two points to make and one question for the commissioner this evening. the first point is about making sure that the poorest regions of europe do not pay the price of enlargement. i disagree with what mr purvis said. areas such as south yorkshire and merseyside in the united kingdom must continue to benefit if they need it, and if they are shown to need it. the second point is to retain some kind of aid for areas undergoing industrial restructuring. my question is about competition policy as well, and about coherence between competition policy and cohesion policy. i am getting a lot of complaints about the way competition policy is being applied, particularly, recently, about voluntary and community sectoral organisations being treated in the same way as private sector organisations and being told that for projects they cannot receive more than 50% in total in public sector intervention. i want to know whether it is commission policy to treat the voluntary and community sector the same as the private sector. does that apply to other public sector organisations? it is an extremely important point because if this is the commission policy, a number of projects which are going ahead in some our most deprived regions will simply cease to go ahead. it is not what the commission worked for many years. regional policy pushed to put these projects in the hands of the voluntary sector and now they seem to be disadvantaged. i would like to know what the commissioner's position is.
mr president, i am quite sure that we all accept the premise that an inappropriate speed by any vehicle can cause accidents. but more often than not accidents are attibutable to the manner in which the vehicle is being driven, or the carelessness of drivers failing to be vigilant, especially in bad weather for example. accidents are also caused by drivers crawling along at a snail's pace on motorways and in some cases they could be avoided by having a minimum as well as a maximum speed limit. there has to be recognition that there is a world of difference between motorway and urban driving. whilst clearly agreeing with the commission and my colleagues, including mr hatzidakis, that we must do all we can to improve road safety across the european union, i cannot agree that the way forward would be the introduction of this directive, which advocated a one-speed-fits-all approach. it is recognised that the united kingdom has the best safety record in the eu. it is equally true to say that it was one of the first countries to fit speed limiters on coaches, for obvious reasons. in addition, this directive is also meant to improve the environment and congestion and again i would refute that claim. to extend this directive to those categories of vehicles included in the proposal, and to impose the upper speed limits as outlined, would be a mistake. it is bad enough struggling along motorways when two heavy goods lorries are running parallel because one decides to overtake on a hill and clearly cannot accelerate. if this directive comes into play i believe that congestion and environmental pollution will increase. finally, the right way forward would be to seriously consider advances in technology, for example the proposed voluntary agreement on pedestrian protection. in addition, there is also the possibility of isa and i would support a study by the commission along those lines. nevertheless, ultimately, it should be left to the discretion of the member state to decide what would or would not be appropriate. with the exception of a couple of amendments, my delegation will be unable to support this report.
- madam commissioner: the ppe-de broadly supports the galileo project in principle. we recognise the case for a complementary and alternative satellite radio navigation system. we recognise the importance of maintaining european technological capability for space activity. we welcome the emphasis on a civil project intended ultimately to be commercially viable in a number of fields such as communications and earth observation, as well as position – finding. the difficulty lies in determining how to fund a venture until it becomes self-financing, particularly in view of the large sums of upfront investments required. we want to see industry fully involved in the planning, specifications and preparatory stages to ensure a better chance of technical success. that is why we have reintroduced amendments to lower the entrance fee for business to be part of the joint undertaking. we see no particular merit in the proposal for a development company at this stage which duplicates the joint undertaking structures. we are mindful of the difficulties of funding such a large-value infrastructures project solely from the private sector, which is why we have put forward the amendment enabling some funding to come from defence budgets provided it is used only for peacekeeping purposes. this merely supports the comments made in annex 1 of the commission's own information note concerning strategic considerations. in closing i would say that it is a great pleasure to be here as the other half of "les deux gilles ciel et espace" club, with my colleague, mr savary.
mr president, the eldr group would like most sincerely to congratulate mrs hermange on her report and on the unanimity that it achieved in committee. that said, it is only fair to give notice to the house that we may find ourselves less able to form part of a consensus when the commission brings forward some of the proposals referred to in paragraph 14. in some cases it will depend on the form of the proposals, given our commitment to subsidiarity; in others, it will depend on their exact content. i would, for example, express my own concerns in both respects over the second indent of the paragraph and any proposals for providing a tax and legislative framework for the development of the social economy, the third sector. many voluntary organisations have already expressed their worries to me that such a measure, unless we get it exactly right, could well prove more of a hindrance than a help to their activities. this is just one of the reasons why i would like to give wholehearted support to the first indent of paragraph 14. knowing how much volunteers contribute to our well-being, i sometimes wonder just how much of a society we would have without their efforts. we urgently need a proper legal base for the civil dialogue. without one, we will find it much more difficult to do what the president of parliament urged us to do yesterday: involve eu citizens in the creation of a europe fit for its future.
mr president, i would like to inform the house that at the end of the debate yesterday afternoon, mr napolitano, in response to statements made during the debate by myself and others, made the following offer: he suggested that we ought to withdraw amendments nos 18 and 12 in order that he might, through the committee on constitutional affairs, propose the bringing forward of a specific report on the issue of constitutional regions in the architecture of europe. many of us believe that is a very important question. those who think it is important are divided at the moment between those who would wish to include it in this report and those who would wish to deal with it in another context. the best course – and my group agrees with this as i believe the liberals do as well – will be for us to accept mr napolitano's generous proposition that this should be raised as a separate topic in its own right through the constitutional affairs committee and that we should withdraw these amendments. i therefore propose that be done. (applause)
mr president, i am content with that, but they are on different points. the other two amendments make this observation: there are exactly 15 member states in the union at the moment and that is not disputed. whether there are more nations is a different question. however, in a spirit of goodwill i withdraw these amendments as well.
in writing. - i wholeheartedly support the report drawn up by my socialist colleague, because it will provide europe with an independent technology which can be used for many practical purposes, including transport and telecommunications. it is increasingly vital that europe develops technology independent of the only other two options in russia and the united states. at present we are in a precarious situation because the eu is based on the systems of these two countries; systems which could at any time be used for military purposes. the financing of this project has always been a bone of contention: if its backing must inevitably come from the private sector, the link between the joint undertaking and this sector must be precisely defined. this will avoid any conflict of interest or unpleasant ambiguity between the partners in this project. in the light of the above, it is appropriate to propose the establishment of a promotional company to act as an arbiter between the project partners. finally, a monitoring committee, which would monitor the project throughout its creation phase, will ensure its transparent and responsible implementation.
mr president, as vice-president of parliament responsible for relations with national parliaments, i very much welcome both the tone and the content of mr napolitano's report. i am convinced that his ideas will help us enhance what is already a good relationship between ourselves and our national counterparts. i strongly believe that this relationship is vital if we are to ensure that the eu is built on democratic foundations. however, i agree with some of my colleagues when they emphasise that the regional parliaments which have legislative powers are an equally important part of ensuring democracy in all eu decision-making. to take my own country, for example, over half the work of the scottish parliament is not about implementing laws thought of in edinburgh or even implementing laws coming from london, but in fact about implementing laws from brussels – about ensuring that eu laws are properly transposed into scottish legislation. so while it is important that we look at national parliaments – and i continue to welcome the emphasis we give to that – we should also now consider how we might embrace the regional parliaments in our work.
in writing. - (de) my group supports the own-initiative report by mr pohjamo. the existing legal rules and the reform of the structural funds under agenda 2000 do not yet indicate the extent of the positive effects expected. in particular, there is a need to optimise: - the long-running programme negotiations between the commission and the member states; - the complicated financial rules; - the participation of the regions in the implementation of programmes and projects; - administrative expenditure; and - the non-binding control of projects carried out. without further structural reform in the management of the structural funds, it will be virtually impossible in the future to eliminate the problem of disparities, which are indeed decreasing between member states but not between regions within states. these reforms must include the following: - limiting the time limits for project proposals; - stopping the financing of projects whose completion exceeds the timeframe; - redistributing the structural funds resources of countries which do not take them into account to those which have submitted sufficiently qualified projects; - giving a higher weight to investment projects promoting employment. in the context of eu enlargement, it is imperative that the commission submits concrete proposals before 2003 to ensure that the current member states will not suffer any deterioration in the contribution of the structural funds they receive and to guarantee equal treatment of the applicant states, in accordance with the tasks defined in the framework of a common structural policy. the objective of sustainably reducing existing development disparities and strengthening economic and social cohesion will not be achieved otherwise. the amendments tabled by my group also support this political line.
in writing. - i fully support the call for the structural funds to be made more effective and relevant. the structural funds are an ideal way of making european citizens feel that the eu is doing something for them and it is essential to dispel the widespread feeling of an excess of paperwork and bureaucracy. all too often, the implementation of the structural funds has been bureaucratic, while their implementation has been slow and inefficient. in view of the considerable growth in the resources allocated to the structural funds, it is essential not only to reaffirm the principles of productivity, regional added value and quality, but also to ensure that they are applied with vigilance. the effective allocation of funds requires the cooperation of all levels of european governance. national governments must help to ease the implementation process and i agree with the call by some members for more direct funding to the regions. in addition, the commission should adopt a more proactive attitude in approving guidelines and directives, which would further ease the process. finally, it is good to consider the structural funds in the context of enlargement: the eu could use this opportunity to allocate funds more efficiently from the outset.
in writing. - i voted for this report but would like to stress some essential aspects of the fisheries policy. the protection of historical interests in this area is inextricably linked to economic and social cohesion in fishing-dependent communities. in accordance with the principle of relative stability, the shares of stocks allocated to a given state for a given fishery remain constant. when the fishing opportunities for a given stock increase or decrease, all states with a legally recognised interest in that stock shall share in the benefits in a proportional manner. relative stability is essential for fisheries policy and the maintenance of fish stocks and must not be compromised. in addition, the importance of the hague preferences must also be stressed. these preferences recognise the extent to which many coastal communities depend on fishing and provide them with additional protection. the socio-economic role of these provisions cannot be overstated - they must be preserved because they are not only fundamental to the common fisheries policy but also an integral part of the fundamental objectives of cohesion policy. finally, it is important to emphasise the importance of fifg funding for fishing communities, particularly in the renewal of the fleet for safety reasons in a sector that clearly operates in a hostile environment.
in writing. - the labour delegation to the european parliament welcomes the conclusions of the musotto report on cohesion. we believe, however, that it is premature at this stage of the debate to take a firm position on future options for the designation of areas eligible for european aid. there will still be areas in need in the uk after 2006 and we would like the commission to assess the role that a safety net mechanism and transitional funding could play in helping the uk's most deprived areas after 2006. it is disappointing that the british conservatives, like others, were unable to support this amendment. furthermore, their failure to support the strengthening of the role of local and regional governments in the management of european funding is a blow to democracy and partnership.
mr president, this report creates a depressing picture of the situation of women in some mediterranean countries. it demonstrates that they are disadvantaged economically, that they are disadvantaged in terms of health and, perhaps most significantly, in terms of education, with the levels of literacy among women in some mediterranean countries way below that of men. it is important that parliament draws attention to that issue, but that is not sufficient. we should also ensure that eu policies are designed to help women improve their standing in some of those countries. for example, the meda programme so far has no lines particularly dedicated to the education of women, to improving the health care of women. we should look at that. we should also look at the way our economic relations with some of the mediterranean countries operate and see if they could be used to enhance the status of women, for example, by supporting women's cooperatives and other activities.
in writing. - the labour delegation in the ep voted in favour of the hermange report on the scoreboard for the implementation of the social policy agenda as it demonstrates many positive aspects of the social policy agenda. however, there are also several areas of concern, on which the report calls on the commission to provide information on how it intends to respond to a number of demands in the agenda which were not supported by the labour delegation in the 2000 plenary. in paragraph 14, our delegation was unable to support the call for the introduction of a right to strike at european level and therefore abstained. we believe that this issue is already dealt with by the legislation of the member states and is also covered by the charter of fundamental rights.
madam president, let me say from the outset that i condemn terrorism wherever it takes place. but i condemn in particular the attacks on the indian parliament and the us cultural centre. there is no justification for terrorism, whatever the perceived provocation. but we have to look at the root causes of terrorism. that is why i am delighted that we have widened this resolution, even though we were unable to change the title; i would not like us to think that we are linking any country or organisation with these attacks. we still have no real knowledge of who perpetrated them so i am very pleased that the indian government is investigating it and that pakistan is helping with that investigation. it gives me the opportunity to address the wider problem: the threat of war again between india and pakistan. i welcome president musharraf's announcement that he is clamping down on terrorism, but it is also important to look at the dispute over jammu and kashmir, which has been going on for over 50 years. i repeat the call for the eu to offer its services as a facilitator to both sides and to take account of the relevant un resolutions. what i am proposing is something similar to what senator mitchell did in northern ireland. the people who continue to suffer are the ordinary people and civilians of india, pakistan and kashmir. people who say a facilitator provided by the eu, the commonwealth or the un is no way forward are not offering any alternative. we have to find an alternative to the bloodshed and to the continuation of this dispute. i hope we will vote for the resolution, to demonstrate not only our horror of terrorism but also the desire to find a solution to the tension within this region.
madam president, on 13 december last year an appalling and vicious attack occurred on the parliament of the indian union in delhi, which is their most visible symbol of democracy and secular nationhood. let us not underestimate the danger this posed as, had it succeeded in killing the assembled government ministers and opposition leaders, it could have heralded a war between india and pakistan, both nuclear powers with massive conventional land forces as well – although india has at least declared a policy of no first use of its nuclear arsenal, unlike pakistan. the responsibility was soon traced to militant islamic terrorist groups based in pakistan, with full support and training from the pakistani government, and also responsible for the earlier attacks in srinagar against the kashmiri state assembly. this is in clear violation of security council resolution 1373 forbidding states from sponsoring terrorism against other states. nevertheless, i welcome president musharraf's change of heart in backing the united states in their war on terrorism which toppled the taliban regime and destroyed the al-qa'ida network in afghanistan, even though this regime was largely a creation of pakistan's interservice intelligence agency; in particular, his speech of 13 january promising reforms of the madrassas, or religious schools, which fomented so much hatred of the west and bred an atmosphere conducive to the massacre of christians peacefully at worship last year. this is a promising start, but pakistan has yet to accede to the request to extradite the 20 ringleaders of the plot. there are deep concerns that the kidnapping of wall street journalist daniel pearl may have involved renegade pro-taliban members of the pakistani security forces. there is now also some evidence from e-mails that the controller of the shoe-bomber richard reid, from my country alas, may have been based in pakistan. i call, therefore, on pakistan to ratify the saarc and all un conventions on terrorism and i congratulate india on its restraint in the face of provocation and on its joint declaration with the eu in november last year against terrorism. during the afghan war in the 1980s we in the west supported islamic militant ideology in order to oppose the spread of communism. america, alas, paid the price on 11 september. will the west again repeat this mistake?
madam president, i should like to express the socialist group's deep concern about the growing phenomenon of fundamentalist terrorism, not only in india but all around the world. i express our concern about the threat this poses to democratic societies and reaffirm that acts of terrorism anywhere in the world threaten peace and stability, but no more so than in india and pakistan at the moment. both of these possess nuclear weapons and one of them at least has not disavowed first use of those weapons. we support india's demands for pakistan to contribute to a full investigation into the attacks on the kashmiri state assembly and the indian parliament. but we urge both sides to do all they can to avoid slipping into the prospect of war. that will require willingness and leadership on behalf of both india and pakistan, and president musharraf in particular. the only way forward is through negotiations. we hope that india and pakistan, with the support of the european parliament, can take that road rather than the much more dangerous road for themselves and the rest of the world.
madam president, i fully support the usa in its handling of the detainees in guantanamo bay. it is fully in the interests of europe's citizens that the american security forces be allowed to interrogate these suspects. this would not be permissible were they classified as prisoners of war under the 1949 geneva convention, since pows are only obliged to divulge their name, rank and number, whereas unlawful combatants – their correct classification, in my view, according to the provisions of article 4(2) of the geneva convention – can be interrogated. i have to say to speakers on the other side of the house that a declaration or non-declaration of war is an irrelevancy under the geneva conventions. the us needs to interrogate these individuals as it is an essential part of the worldwide struggle against terrorism. the decision by the us to classify them in this way is, therefore, not vindictive but practical and necessary, but it exposes the inadequacy of the anachronistic international jurisprudence in this area. furthermore, it is my belief that many of these individuals are so dangerous that they would not have hesitated to attack their own guards. if they became aware that one of their fellow detainees was likely to crack under interrogation, they would have made efforts to kill him as well. the only possible alternative – beyond the physical restraints which were placed upon them, both in transit, when they might well have bitten their way through the avionic cables in order to down the planes, and on land – would be the use of high doses of intramuscular tranquillisers which, although effective, would have carried significant risks to the detainees and would have required medical and nursing personnel to accompany them. there is no evidence that the americans are treating them cruelly or inhumanely, and we should support them rather than engage in speculative and ill-informed criticism. my concern is twofold: firstly, as regards what will america do with those it does not file charges against who, if returned to their own countries of origin, may face torture and death for reasons of unrelated islamic militancy; and secondly, with regard to paragraph 5 of the resolution, which suggests a role for the international criminal court, which has yet to get off the ground? unfortunately, as well-intentioned as this may be, my understanding is that certainly domestic terrorists, rightly or wrongly, are excluded from the rome statute provisions, but it may be that international terrorists could fall under its remit. this is not clear at present. i have a number of additional concerns about the icc, such as command responsibility, which blames military commanders even if they had no knowledge of the crimes committed, and also the fact that amnesties and peace and reconciliation processes would become more difficult to achieve between belligerents. nevertheless, this whole area of jurisprudence ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, commissioner, i ask you to share the sorrow as well as the anger i feel in speaking as a friend of eritrea. from 1889 to 1952 eritrea was under the flags firstly of italy, then of britain. it was then given by the international community to ethiopia in federation, and then it was annexed by that country. it then suffered 32 years of war during which its economy and its environment were ruined and its people dispersed. we then came to 1993 and its referendum for independence. i was there as a un observer. there was a spirit of hope abroad in that country. the refugees were returning, reconstruction was beginning to take place. 90% of people voted in that referendum. 99% voted for independence. president isaias was elected president. with a moderate lifestyle and a period of optimism stemming from it, we hoped for the best. for some years the problem was border conflict. now sadly the problem is internal. human rights have deteriorated, opposition is not tolerated, eleven former leaders of the government party have been arrested, the press is suppressed and journalists arrested. the italian ambassador has been expelled. multiparty elections which were promised for last december were cancelled and now parties themselves have been banned. democracy has been cancelled in eritrea. eritrea is desperate for support in rebuilding a country ravaged by war. they need our aid, but aid must not be without guarantees of good governance. to our friends in eritrea we say: "come back to the world community of democratic government. turn away from totalitarianism". to the commission i say: "be firm". human rights are not just for our benefit. they are not to make us feel good. they are for the benefit of the people of eritrea and eritrea needs those human rights now.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on fisheries. – mr president, as draftsman of the opinion of the committee on fisheries, i would like to compliment mr koukiadis on his report and thank him for the consideration he has given to the conclusions of the committee on fisheries, for whom issues of safety are a high priority. mr koukiadis' report directly concerns only the first of what are now three directives on working time. he pinpoints variations in interpretation, types of derogation and manner of transposal as contributing to defects in its implementation. such problems could be compounded by the fact that different rules apply to different sectors. for example, fish processors are covered by the first directive but those engaged in fishing as such by the second. it is difficult to predict the effects of this for two sectors that are so closely related to one another. similarly, potential changes in the nature of aquaculture may mean that different rules are needed for the future from those that fit its character today. that is why we are asking the commission to monitor these aspects of implementation in future reports. it may be that there are other sectors for which a similar approach would be helpful. it is desirable that individual sectors are covered by rules that are genuinely appropriate to their own particular situations. however, many implementation problems might be avoided and quicker adaptation made to technological and other change if such rules could come out of agreements between the social partners. we point to the agreement between the european community shipowners' association and the federation of transport workers in the eu as an example of best practice in this regard. finally, with safety so much at stake, we hope that the rules will become accepted as setting minimum standards to improve upon, rather than maximum ones to adhere to simply because that is what the law demands.
mr president, i should like to sincerely congratulate the rapporteur on his extensive and critical work on this report on the working time directive. it was indeed quite an urgent issue to be tackled, given the controversial discussions at the several sessions of the court of justice on this very matter. before i speak on a number of matters to do with the working time directive, i must say that i am very pleased that a couple of member states have already implemented a huge number of different legislative, administrative and collective agreements in this regard. i also feel that the measures taken by the supranational decision-makers go in the right direction, since the commission's new directives cover the areas excluded from the scope of the original directive. however, there is still a lot of work to be done. we all know – and the rapporteur did well to criticise it – that some member states resort to the tactic of claiming that their existing legislation covers the provisions of the directive. i cannot understand, therefore, why they hesitate to implement a fairly flexible directive in the large amount of time available. i therefore agree with the report's encouragement of the commission to investigate why the member states refuse to comply with some of the directive's provisions. we should insist as well on controls on the conditions of application of the directive to new working-time patterns, for example, precarious work, part-time work and fixed-time work. in addition to that i see a strong need to focus more intensively on the increasing number of homeworkers. the commission itself has made strenuous efforts with regard to open and distance learning within the leonardo da vinci programme, for example. i feel obliged then to ask you: why do we not give stronger encouragement to the social partners to negotiate the relevant working-time issues? nevertheless, the report could have gone further into detail, as it unfortunately neglects so-called self-employed workers. i am convinced that the need to include this category within the directive is a matter we should all support and in doing so we should merely be adding further to a well-drafted report.
mr president, i should like to welcome mrs diamantopoulou here this afternoon. i know she will be speaking on behalf of mr liikanen. we are obviously disappointed that he is unable to be here. we understand the pressures on the time of commissioners. we know that across the commission there is great interest in this subject and, in particular, in a number of the areas for which mrs diamantopoulou is responsible, this issue will also be of crucial importance. the thrust behind our question – which is tabled at a timely point in the run-up to the barcelona summit – is that the need across the european union to deliver access to information society services and to encourage the climate in which new services will develop has to be at the foundation of the lisbon goal to deliver the most competitive knowledge-driven economy in the world. i emphasise "knowledge-driven" because what we are talking about is the ability to achieve the widespread dissemination and availability of that knowledge. part of the problem with this topic is the whole issue of jargon, and our question perhaps falls into that trap by talking about flat-rate internet access. perhaps colleagues will bear with me if i just set out why that is so critical. if the internet is really to deliver its full potential as a global knowledge network, as an instantly accessible medium, then we have to encourage people to use it in such a way that they become detached from the feeling that, with a time-based connection, they have to hurry through what they are doing, that the facilities are not always there and available to them. that really is what this is all about. it is making that huge library of information and services available in such a way that people can have continuous access to it at a price they can afford. that is really at the heart of this question. we know that quite a lot has moved forward. i am pleased to have been a member of the teams in the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy and the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, which have worked very hard with the commission to push through directives on matters such as the unbundling of the local loop and the whole of the electronics communications package. we understand our role and responsibility here. the ultimate delivery of these services will have to come from the marketplace. it has already happened successfully in mobile telephony; it is already happening now in the marketplace as new investment is going in. however, we have to encourage investment in the backbone capacity that will carry these services and encourage people to develop the new services that will take advantage of that increased capacity. what we are talking about is moving from the relatively small knowledge pipelines that are coming into our houses and our businesses to much larger pipelines of knowledge. new services will be delivered with them. for example, a full-length movie will be delivered in seconds rather than hours, as it is at the moment. in conclusion, we look forward to hearing how the commission is going to encourage that development of fast internet access, how it is going to stimulate that provision across the member states, what further action may be necessary, and what further support we can give to this crucial aim for the future of the european economy.
mr president, since 7 november the sncf has suspended all cross-channel rail freight services because of fears for the safety of its staff at calais following threats from those seeking to enter the uk illegally. as a result, channel tunnel freight services are now in a state of deep crisis. however, we are pleased today that both french meps and british labour meps have pushed for a debate, and indeed that the eldr group has joined us in calling this debate this afternoon. we need cooperation, not conflict, to resolve this particular problem. no more naming and shaming, no more buck-passing; we need the british government, the french government, the sncf, eurotunnel, ews and others to start working together more effectively. a lot has been done, but there is a lot to do. added to my list is the european commission. articles 28 to 30 of the treaty and regulation 2679/98 guarantee the free movement of goods. that means free movement through the channel tunnel. i thank the commissioner for intervening in this particular crisis and for responding positively to requests from myself and others. in the past few days a security fence has been built and we welcome that. but policing is still only between the hours of 9 p.m. and 3 a.m. we hope to be able to persuade our french colleagues of the need for 24-hour policing and adequate police numbers. we need the sncf to resume services as soon as possible and we need urgent modifications to locomotives to ensure they do not need to stop at calais purely for technical reasons. these are practical measures that will make a big difference in the short term. we hope you, commissioner, will continue to act to ensure that this vital link in the single market is restored.
the commission. - mr president, the commission is concerned about the reduction in rail freight transport due to the safety problems at the sncf station. this situation has a negative impact on the breakdown by means of transport of freight transport activities on this important transport route. this is detrimental to rail transport and contrary to the commission's collective view of the role of rail transport as set out in its white paper of september 2001. the partial closure of rail traffic through the tunnel reduces capacity utilisation, and therefore the return on investment, for a very important european transport infrastructure. the commission has been fully aware of the situation since it began in november. in accordance with regulation (ec) no 2679/98 on the free movement of goods, the commission services had already asked the french authorities in november to take all necessary and appropriate measures to restore the smooth flow of traffic. they also asked to be kept regularly informed of developments. according to our latest information, the situation has improved slightly. police forces are constantly on the scene, railway capacity has been increased where possible from 1200 to 1600 tonnes. work on the commercial terminal at fretane started in december and an aid grid is expected to be completed in early february. the facilities to fully protect the site, such as video cameras, heat sensors, will be in place by the end of june. the commissioner also stressed that the commission would continue to be in contact with the french authorities and proposed to meet with his french and british counterparts and the ministers responsible for the internal market to discuss the matter on the sidelines of the next market council on 1 march. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the free movement of goods is restored by june at the latest, when all the work on the terminal is completed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the policy of the union and its member states on asylum and control at the external borders is also at risk. the commission believes that the adoption of harmonised rules will make a major contribution to ensuring that some member states are not more attractive than others. the commission has already tabled proposals to this effect.
mr president, we used to have a joke in the united kingdom about there being fog in the channel and the continent therefore being cut off. now it seems more a case of people loose in the tunnel and trains and trade cut off – which is altogether more serious. the effects of the restrictions are very damaging to free movement and employment: thousands of jobs are at risk. i have to say that for those affected, removing the restrictions by june sounds a very long way off. the problem is the proximity of the sangatte camp for refugees: it is too close and should be moved, and makes policing very difficult. this tunnel is an asset and enterprise which is jointly owned and benefits both france and britain, as well as the wider community of member states. it is probably the single most important physical link drawing britain and the continent together. the difficulty of policing illegal immigrants is damaging to this process and must be resolved soon. i call on the commission to press the french authorities to take action. i call on the united kingdom government to offer more assistance to its french counterparts and to the hauliers and businesses concerned, rather than seeming to turn a blind eye to their concerns and difficulties and spending more time harassing truck drivers and train operators with prosecutions and fines. the authorities need to take action and not take it out on other innocent parties.
mr president, firstly, i should like to pay respect to my colleagues mr watts, mr savary and mrs darras for bringing this point to the house for our consideration. it is ironic that i speak on this subject because, as a rapporteur, i helped push through this house the issue of free movement of goods at border areas where there was disruption. primarily it was meant to attack the issue of industrial relations at borders. but this is interesting: i praise and applaud the commission's lateral thinking about the application of these articles that have been laid before them. i knew then, as i know now, that the requirements set down in that particular set of articles were merely mechanistic, that it comes down to political goodwill. people here today will appreciate that it requires all parties to pay attention to what is happening at the channel tunnel and to make sure that they do not allow it to be obscured by the mere arguments, cultural or political, that exist there. there are problems. in this particular issue there are problems of slender resources – we understand that – whether of the police or of security personnel at the areas where they are involved. but we need to get freight through unfettered. let us also recognise that this is an international problem. people have been displaced as a consequence of wars and of major disruption and there are also economic émigrés who will pay any price to get into the uk. quite often it is a price paid to criminal gangs, there to exploit the motivation of these people. real solutions, therefore, lie in the hands of politicians coordinating their actions at government level. peace and development in the areas of the world facing crisis are also what we must strive for. in france we have also seen, all too unfortunately, human tragedy that has left in our minds the human aspect of all that is going on there. the attempts of the french authorities to tighten security are welcome. the highest level of vigilance must continue to be demanded, as mr watts has said. attending to this question in the house confirms the international status and interest which it deserves. not just the channel tunnel, but other issues as well, will be resolved by such processes. this gives us just such a platform to launch that process.
mr president, first of all i would be grateful if commissioner diamantopoulou would convey to commissioner de palacio my personal thanks for the work that i know the commissioner has already undertaken in this regard. coming from one of the more remote parts of europe, namely scotland, it is so important for us to be connected with the centre. the problems we face at the moment are acute. i refer to exports and the logistical problems that are being created, as well as the problems for the rail freight companies generally. what is an acute problem could, if matters are not dealt with properly, become a chronic one. commissioner diamantopoulou has already referred to the fact that what is happening with the channel tunnel is counterproductive to the policy which we all want to see pursued, namely that of getting freight on to the railways and off the roads. given the present situation within the united kingdom, the difficulties that it has in exporting and the railways there, and looking to the future of the whole transport policy of the european union, i sincerely hope that as much pressure as possible can be brought to bear from all quarters to get this problem resolved as quickly as possible.
mr president, i follow mrs attwooll as one of the other members for scotland in this house. i am very grateful to mr watson and to the liberal colleagues who put forward the questions which promote this debate today. it is a vital debate. to try and make the point mrs attwooll was making yet more vivid, 30 miles away from the house in which i live in edinburgh, midway between edinburgh and glasgow, at the town of motherwell, lies the most northerly freight outpost of the trans-european network into the united kingdom, the motherwell eurocentral depot. we have been told in recent weeks that the carrier out of that port, ews, will not be able to afford to continue providing a service out of scotland at the current available number of trains per day. it would be a crisis for scotland, and therefore a crisis for transport across the union, if that happened. it is well known, for example, that the scotch whisky industry depends heavily on rail freight to get malt scotch and blended scotch into the european market. heavy losses are being made on a vitally important trade. in these circumstances it is encouraging to be told that the commission takes this matter seriously, but it is not encouraging to be told that all will be well by june, because the information we are receiving from the commercial parties involved is that they cannot last until june at present levels. this is a time when people throughout the european union people are asking themselves the question: do we obtain the benefits which we are promised from our membership of the european union? these benefits particularly relate to the opportunity to trade freely across the union. other benefits which have been promised are those arising from intermodal transport – that not everything should go on the roads. that affects not just people in scotland; it even more affects people down the motorway routes through england, if far too much heavy freight traffic goes down there. we need traffic on the railways. we also need traffic by sea. we are very grateful to commissioner de palacio for the work she has put into securing the new ferry link between scotland and zeebrugge, but if we are going to have a sensible transport policy which really does spread the load and save the roads from excessive use by heavy traffic, we must have this railway line kept open. i am grateful to colleagues who have raised this question. i am grateful to the commission for taking it seriously; but i want to know as well what compensation will be available to ensure that those who have lost money are not prevented from trading altogether by the uneconomic conditions now prevailing on this route.
mr president, i join my scottish colleagues in asking the commissioner to help us to resolve this situation as urgently as possible. it may surprise the commissioner to have such a representation from scotland, but scotland is probably one of the greatest victims of this situation in the channel tunnel. because of the reduction in transit through the tunnel, we do not have a mere three services a night – we have none, because the service from scotland to the continent has been withdrawn completely. as mr maccormick said, it is no longer possible to transport scotch whisky to the continent or to send our microcircuits to paris, frankfurt or milan. but more than that: it is no longer possible for us to import parts and continental products by train. costs for both exports and imports are increasing, as are road congestion and pollution. a service which did something to bring scotland closer to the golden triangle of europe has been lost, and so scotland returns to the periphery. this is a tragedy, and why? because we seem incapable of organising our immigration systems on a european basis and of providing adequate security to ensure that any such arrangement works. clearly there are faults on the french side of la manche and on the english side of the english channel, but the victims are my constituents – hundreds of miles from dover and calais – in scotland. i call upon the uk government to resolve its immigration system, in collaboration with its neighbours, so that it does not attract tens of thousands of desperate people. it is surely not coincidental that the uk is one of the only european countries without identity cards. i call upon the french authorities, from their old allies of the auld alliance, their scottish cousins, to enforce real security at their end of the tunnel so that the rail freight service to and from scotland can be resumed. i call upon the commissioner and the commission to knock all their heads together urgently in order to reach a solution to this absurd state of affairs.
rapporteur. – mr president. in these cases which are before us, there are very serious allegations levied against two members of parliament, which are stated on the first page of the explanatory statement of my report, which i recommend to members to take a look at. the procedures were commenced in july 2000, concerning illegal arms trading, influence peddling, misuse of corporate funds, breach of trust and receiving stolen goods. this concerned the sale of arms to several african countries in breach of french law on arms trading by companies through which countless transfers and even cash payments were made to a string of different people. there is a charge against mr pasqua, but not against mr marchiani, which concerns illegal funding of an election campaign through acceptance of donations and funding of the european election campaign in breach of the provisions of article l52.8 of the electoral code. these being the charges, the first charge concerning illegal arms trading, etc., against both mr pasqua and mr marchiani, the second against mr pasqua only, the examining magistrates are requesting the waiver of parliamentary immunity of these two gentlemen, so that certain judicial supervision measures may be taken against them. the members would be forbidden to enter into contact with certain witnesses, or co-accused, or to visit certain countries and they may be required to put up bail. this notification order was forwarded first to the public prosecutor of the republic at the level of the court of first instance, then through the public prosecutor at the paris court of appeal and then from that public prosecutor to the minister of justice and by the minister of justice to the parliament here. it should be noted, at the first instance, that the public prosecutor of the republic firmly supports a request for judicial supervision by the examining magistrates, stressing the gravity and nature of the case and describing it as necessary in principle. however, the public prosecutor at the court of appeal considered that, and i quote, "contrary to the view expressed by the other prosecutor, the present request for waiver of immunity gives grounds for reservations". on the one hand, the request for judicial supervision does not stipulate what countries the accused would be forbidden to visit and on the other, following a ruling by the cour de cassation, the scope of the proceedings finally to be pursued is still to be determined by the relevant court of appeal. the minister of justice, however, forwarded the request for waiver of immunity, together with the forwarding letters from the public prosecutor at first instance and at the court of appeal, without attaching any further remarks. this is the situation in which we have to take a decision. i want to say, first of all, that the crimes of which these members are charged are serious ones. we have an absolute rule that we form no opinion either way about the merits of the charges but that the members enjoy the presumption of innocence. the public prosecutor in france is entitled to pursue his duties under law and parliament takes no side on that issue. they are serious crimes and of a kind that would not ordinarily attract parliamentary immunity because they do not relate to the ordinary and proper activities of a member of this parliament, or a politician operating in a democratic society. it does make it important that i should acknowledge that both members strenuously affirm their innocence and denounce what they consider to have been abusive elements in the prosecution process. however, in the nature of the case, i can have no view and parliament should take no view about these points. the present request for waiver of immunity, therefore, does not concern the issue whether these prosecutions may or should continue in accordance with french law. under article 10 of the protocol of 1965, there is no relevant immunity, either for a deputy of the french national assembly or, therefore, for a french mep in the face of prosecution on charges of this kind. the issue of immunity and the request for waiver relates only to the issue of whether the court may issue binding orders restricting the meps' freedom of movement, or their freedom in making contact with other persons. i would draw to the attention of all colleagues that if there are freedoms which are vitally important to the exercise of public representative office, especially in a parliament of this kind, freedom to communicate with other citizens and the citizens of other countries, and freedom to move as one chooses, is critically important, as part of doing the job. in its present form, the request for waiver of immunity seems unacceptably precise and indeed the documents of the case seem to indicate that no attention has been paid to the recommendation for the request of waiver to be taken forward only on the basis of a more specific statement, concerning places and persons involved. there is one other aspect of the case which, i regret to say, gives rise to a suspicion that regard for the conditions of free parliamentary debate has not sufficiently animated the prosecution, and that is the fact, which was disclosed in the course of this, that the prosecutor at one point asked our president, your predecessor, for details of the voting records of these two members in order that the possibility of their having exercised improper influence could be pursued further. article 9 of the protocol, as president fontaine sharply reminded the prosecutor, makes us entirely free from any legal proceeding whatever in any expression of opinion of vote cast in performance of our duties as members of this parliament. in these circumstances, the legal affairs committee, and i wholly endorsed its view, proposes that the request received from the french minister of justice for waiver of immunity ought to be rejected in the form in which it has been presented to the parliament. i hope that decision, together with the explanatory statement, will be forwarded, if it is adopted by the parliament. this may not be the end of this matter but, in the form we received it, this request for waiver of immunity was in the view of the legal affairs committee unacceptable, and i commend that view to the house.
mr president-in-office, this house will vote tomorrow on an amendment on your national hydrological plan, so we hope you enjoy your glass of water today. if the european union were drawing up an end-of-year report card on the lisbon process, i suspect that the report would say "must try harder". over the last year, we have seen some progress on this agenda, in particular the adoption of the telecoms package in council, the agreement on the european company statute, reduction of the tax burden by three-quarters of 1% of gdp. all of these things help to promote growth and jobs, provided they are consistent with the growth and stability pact, and clearly we need to be shifting the tax burden away from things we want more, like jobs, and onto things that we want less of, like pollution. but i am afraid this report card would also show that the union is failing in too many areas. the commission communication to the barcelona european council speaks of a firm commitment to the growth and stability pact, which will help build confidence. if this is so, it was sadly lacking when the finance ministers fudged an early warning decision on germany and portugal just recently. the rejection of the take-over bids directive is a major setback to competitiveness in the union and i challenge the other political groups and the council to join us in speeding through the new commission proposal under a fast-track procedure, so that we can get it onto the statute book by the end of this year. another area where we have failed is the failure in council to adopt a common position on the pensions directive which is essential, not just for a secure retirement for an elderly population, but also for labour market mobility. the european parliament has done its job. we gave you our first reading opinion in july of last year and we now look to the spanish presidency to send us a common position by june of this year, if we are to meet the commission's target of adoption by the end of this year. another area where the schoolteacher would rap the council over the knuckles is the european patent. if we want to close the innovation gap between europe and the united states, we need easier and cheaper and faster pan-european patent protection. when it comes to behaviour in class, i am not sure that the union would score well. i welcome the commission's decision this afternoon to take the council to the court of justice for an attempt to take away the commission's powers over state aid. the reason we have state aid rules is to ensure a proper functioning of the single market and we need to abolish barriers to competition and to free trade to allow the commission to be the policeman, and the council should frankly be ashamed of challenging the commission on that. finally, our report card would show a pupil which is lacking ambition. if the european union is to be a star pupil, we need progress on liberalisation of energy and gas markets, on implementation of the financial services action plan, on agreement of a public procurement framework. the process of economic reform is not an end in itself. it is about increasing prosperity of our people and preparing the european union for enlargement. what message is it that we are sending to applicant states if we are incapable of implementing ourselves the demanding reforms that we are expecting of them? when it comes to reviewing what happens at barcelona, we will be judging you by the report card. at the moment, the pupil has to work harder.
mr president, this is a debate which is going to take very different routes depending on which committees members sit on. as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, i want to concentrate on environmental issues in the context of barcelona. the first thing is to stress the importance which the committee on the environment, and i hope the european parliament, places on the addition of an environmental dimension to the lisbon process of annual assessment of economic growth and social cohesion. indeed, we were really rather surprised in the committee on the environment that the environmental pillar of sustainable development should not be considered of equal importance to the social and economic pillars. i would like to take this opportunity of expressing thanks on behalf of myself and my colleagues to the european environment agency for the work that it has done in relation to the environmental indicators. the director of the environment agency, mr beltrán, will be retiring soon and we are very grateful for the work that he has done. it is also important that we should not leave these indicators floating in the air while congratulating ourselves on the fact that we have produced them. in the view of the environment committee, it is very important that we link their production to clear targets and timetables for the work of the commission and of the parliament. i would make a domestic point to my colleagues here, namely that we really address the issue of sustainable development better in this parliament. we ought to organise, for example, an annual debate with an annual assessment of progress in all our committee areas. it is essential to continue to see that environmental considerations are taken into account in other policies. this is something which environment commissioner, mrs wallström, has always been very keen on. she faces a tremendous uphill struggle. one policy which illustrates the desperate need for environmental considerations to be taken into account within it is fisheries. i represent the south west of england. we have a number of fishing ports and we are currently facing the consequences of a desperate failure to take environmental considerations into account when operating the common fisheries policy. we have exhausted fish stocks. we have fishermen with no fish to catch. we have dead dolphins being washed up on the beaches of brittany and cornwall because industrial trawlers are trawling them up in the middle of the channel and then leaving them for dead. that is a very good example of non-sustainable development and the parliament ought to get involved in doing something about it. sustainable development is going to be very important in the context of enlargement. the likelihood is that the applicant states in eastern and central europe will want to be like us as soon as possible – heaven help them. that means that they will want more roads, more cars, more transport emissions and so on. more damage to the environment will probably be done and we have to find a way, without being culturally imperialist about it, to ensure that rapid economic development in the countries of eastern and central europe does not damage the environment, particularly the natural environment, in the new member states. rio and the rio summit is going to bring forth an absolute cascade of words. whether or not rio means anything and brings about any concrete results remains to be seen. it is a pity that the commission has produced its document so late that we cannot give at this point our collective view in the context of barcelona. that document for rio contains some very good points, especially the emphasis on providing incentives for environmentally and socially sustainable trade. one thing i would highlight from the position of the environment committee is the need for the european union to sort itself out when it comes to addressing the issue of genetically modified production in the countries of the third world. in december in south africa there was news of a large increase in the acreage in south africa which is under cultivation for genetically modified products. what is our message to a country like that? do we say that the more you produce of that, the less you can export to us? is that going to be a sustainable message to give them when they want to make a living for themselves? finally, a word on the dreaded spanish hydrological plan which has moved across the screen of the european parliament increasingly frequently. it is not a good idea to condemn one member state for action taken in good faith by a democratically elected government. in this instance, the spanish government has submitted an environmental impact assessment in relation to the plan and the european commission is considering it. this is not the point at which we should start condemning spain. the spanish hydrological plan will be a very difficult issue for the british labour members of the european parliament to decide how they are going to vote. even at this moment, mr tony blair is desperately cultivating mr aznar as an ally, so the british labour members are caught between supporting their prime minister and voting against mrs roth-behrendt who has tabled the amendment. that is not an enviable position to be in and i do not envy them.
mr president, while of course the liberalising thrust of the lisbon process in the barcelona summit is welcomed, i would like to bring to your attention two warnings. firstly, what we do not do, and what we refrain from doing, is as important as what we are positively trying to do. we should learn in the name of competitiveness to refrain from burdening and cluttering the european union from excessive regulation or initiatives which are not strictly necessary. in that perspective, i hope the barcelona summit will turn its attention to the crucial issue of regulatory impact assessment. too often, initiatives are launched without the full impact on business, on the environment, but also on consumers and administrations, first being fully examined. let us all turn our attention to tightening up the hurdles which we need to leap over before we actually launch initiatives. the second warning is this. the lisbon process – and no doubt this will be picked up at the barcelona summit – is now groaning under a whole series of targets. targets are fine, but they can quickly undermine the credibility of the process if the targets are either not met or are simply met by member states through a statistical sleight of hand. i would appeal to the council and the commission to be wary about implementing and establishing too many targets if those targets are clearly not always going to be met.
my group has long been critical of the lisbon process, not least because of its unquestioning belief in economic growth per se, with no attempt at any qualitative evaluation of it at all, yet we still cling to this as a key indicator of economic wellbeing and assume that that means social wellbeing as well. if i have to fence my house, put up burglar alarms, catches on the windows, etc., it may be good for the economy, but it is not good for my quality of life. we also criticise the ambition about being the most competitive knowledge-based economy, on the basis that in any competition, there are going to be losers, both within the european union and globally. what we are looking at with lisbon is that we have to beware that social cohesion, which was another of the goals, does not become a casualty of our search for competitiveness. we are also very much aware that lisbon is not enough. gothenburg added the environment and the promise of spring summits, which barcelona is, as sustainability summits. in my group's view, all summits should be about sustainability, but i would settle for at least one a year as a start because the environment underpins our economic development, and if you do not have sustainability, you can kiss goodbye to the stability pact. mr bullmann's original report gave us a comprehensive reminder of a number of issues concerning employment, social cohesion and the importance of sustainability, but i think we saw considerable tension introduced with that report, with certain emac resolutions; not least, paragraph 25 and its push for liberalisation with no qualitative evaluation on the social and environmental side whatsoever, and paragraph 36, which tells us that the european union did a very good job at doha in our push for the liberalisation of world trade as the catalyst for international growth. we have to get away from this idea that sustainable growth somehow means 3% year after year, if that is going to eat up our finite resources and pollute our environment. we have to decide as a european union what we mean by sustainable economic growth and it is not what we are voting about here.
i want to address three points. firstly, the liberalisation of the energy market, secondly the european research area and the flanking measures which need to accompany the sixth framework programme, and thirdly, entrepreneurship. on entrepreneurship, is it not about time that we heard some of the results from the many benchmarking exercises which have been undertaken? is it not time that we named and shamed those member states who are not taking the actions necessary to improve entrepreneurship and competitiveness? the european parliament's committee on industry, external trade, research and energy has voted on the liberalisation directives for gas and electricity and we have reached the conclusion that if liberalisation takes place without paying attention to the environmental, consumer and social consequences, you are embarking on a dangerous journey. we would ask, for example, that energy efficiency be used as an indicator in the lisbon and barcelona processes. if a member state is so inept that it does not use energy intelligently, it will never be competitive. it is one of the best indicators of the will of that country to do well in today's world, so we ask for indicators there. and please, tell us what your many benchmarking exercises have shown.
mr president, often it seems that education plays second fiddle to the issues of market liberalisation, technological innovation and indeed the promotion of telecommunications and entrepreneurial infrastructure. however, the bullmann report calls to our attention that all these measures come to absolutely naught if we do not have an educated citizenry that can create, operate and service these sectors. therefore, education in the context of a sophisticated manufacturing and entrepreneurial milieu in a society that requires frequent switches in skills basis and a society that requires mobility across borders, becomes a precondition, a predeterminant, of our success in a knowledge economy, not simply one of the results of its successes. how can we hope to have a competitive, dynamic economy when member states today have substantial proportions of illiteracy, huge inequalities in linguistic capacity, protectionism and discrepancies in occupational and educational qualifications, and numerous financial and legal barriers to mobility. the changes we need, require fundamental cooperation across member states of a kind that education ministers, vice-chancellors of universities and national qualification agencies find enormously difficult. therefore facing these extraordinary difficulties, the one thing at barcelona that would move us forward immensely would be to provide the framework, the joint commitment and a realistic appraisal of the resources required to ensure that we make these fundamental leaps to promote education as the fundamental step in the future of the competitive knowledge economy in europe.
mr president, the parliament's committees on which i sit have in the last few days made important progress with legislation on both financial services and energy market liberalisation. it will be tragic if the european council cannot also match europe's urgent needs and their own rhetoric at lisbon and bring this area of legislation to completion and soon. beyond this, i stress the critical importance of research and development and innovation to the future of europe. mr prodi highlighted this policy area and said quite rightly there is no reason why europe should not lead the world in biotechnology, which is undoubtedly going to be the leading area of science and industry, of employment and improved quality of life for the next few decades. and yet, what do we have? bickering over the community patent, moratoria and antagonisms, procedural obstacles which have forestalled all progress in genetically modified crops and a tremendous promise they offer to us in europe and the developing world especially. what do we have? over-complex and expensive approval procedures and patenting processes for new products in healthcare and pharmaceuticals. we cannot afford to lose our best scientists to our competitors where they are better appreciated, given scope to realise their ambitions and are suitably rewarded. we are already two years past lisbon, there are only eight more years to 2010 when we are to be the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world. action will speak louder than words, mr president-in-council, there is little or no time to lose.
mr president, the prosecution of the people's democratic party stems from disturbances at their party congress as long ago as 1996. since then, the pkk has declared a ceasefire and turkey has started its long programme of political reform. in particular the revision of article 69 seems to be designed to expand the scope of party political activity within the political system. the reform should be taken further quickly so that no regionalist party, nor those of mainly kurdish origin, should be under threat. it would be a very good signal of the resolve of turkey to carry on with european integration should the supreme court decide this case at the very moment when turkey takes its seats inside the convention. the banning of the fazilet party last year was a poor signal. if there are serious allegations against persons for connections with terrorism they should be charged, but the party itself should be saved for parliamentary democracy.
it is a pleasure to be speaking under your gavel for the first time and to offer you my congratulations, and i hope i can have 10 seconds extra at the end for saying that. it is a pleasure once again at second reading, to be supporting this very important measure on behalf of my group and also to pay tribute to colette flesch for the energy and time that she has put in, particularly in handling very astutely the negotiations with the council and the commission over the last few weeks, so that we quite rightly have a compromise deal which i have signed up to on behalf of my group, and which we urge your colleagues to support tomorrow. one of the crucial reasons for that, as mrs flesch mentioned in her speech just now, is that we need to get this new .eu domain name operational as quickly as possible. we are working in a crowded market, colleagues. the .eu has to survive in a whole world of new domain names, and it will only be of real value to commercial organisations and ngos and other institutions who want to use it, if the procedures that are put in place for registration are the best possible that can be achieved. people want to be able to have their registrations handled quickly and clearly and to have the sort of guarantees about their copyrights and trademarks that we expect, because after all, with the institutional backing it has from the european community over all the european union, people will expect it to be nothing less than the best. it is going to be under scrutiny, so best practice is all-important. but we must get this done and get it through as soon as we possibly can. we look forward to the declarations of the council and the commission. i will be withdrawing my amendment, which put down a specific timescale of 6 months for getting the registry authorised, or rather to get the tender documents out in 15 months overall. i have been criticised in the industry for being too generous, so i hope that will be the absolute maximum. we look forward to hearing your declaration, and i should like to say in conclusion that this is an important measure, which must be done well and be done quickly.
rapporteur. – mr president, i am very happy to be able to introduce my report at this evening's plenary session. colleagues will recall that this is an own-initiative report and in our early discussions in committee some concerns were expressed about the potentially enormous scope of a report on such a broad subject as transport and health. we agreed that in order to be useful, we would need to prioritise the issues that we focussed on very rigorously. for that reason i focussed this report on just two key issues: gaps in existing legislation and where further work can have genuine added value. first, the introduction of health impact assessments for all major eu transport projects and policies is probably the single most important initiative which could help integrate transport and health policies and help to minimise the negative impact of transport on health. the second issue i focussed on was the promotion within the bounds of subsidiarity of cycling and walking within eu transport policy. this would have an enormous impact on maximising the positive effects of transport policy on health. to demonstrate why action is urgent and necessary, my report summarises some of the key negative health impacts arising from transport growth. these include air pollution, noise, lack of physical movement and others. to take just one of these, transport is now the dominant source of air pollution in urban areas and despite the past decade's improvements in air quality in europe, close to 90% of the urban population is still exposed to excess ambient levels of particulate matter, no2, benzene and ozone. these can affect respiratory functions and lead to other health problems and diseases like cancer and cardiovascular diseases. although it is true that vehicles have become relatively less polluting, the effect in absolute terms is offset by the increase in the number of vehicles on the road together with the increases in the length and frequencies of journeys. the significance of this was demonstrated by a recent study that found that air pollution now causes a higher mortality rate than road accidents. this is also a very timely debate. new evidence from scientists in california in just the past few weeks demonstrates that car fumes can actually cause asthma rather than only exacerbating asthma in existing sufferers. new research in the uk, part-funded by the uk government, reveals that children find it increasingly hard to breathe the closer they live to main roads. so having focussed on two priority areas, i should explain the process used to identify those areas. first, on health impact assessments: in all the relevant literature it is clear there is still a lack of integration of health issues into transport policy at eu level. this was most recently and clearly evident in a synthesis report produced by the who and the un economic commission for europe in january of last year. that report was called for by european ministers to provide an overview of relevant existing agreements and to provide further recommendations. their overwhelming conclusion was: "the main gap seems to lie in the lack of an overarching integration strategy which would bring together and use the synergies of policies and legislations relevant to transport, environment and health." we also have an eu treaty obligation to better integrate these fields. having spoken to a number of experts, it seems to me that health impact assessments should be introduced for all major eu transport policies and projects so that we can understand better the potential health risks and benefits of different proposals. these analyses could be very helpfully integrated with strategic environmental assessments. this proposal actually complements and builds on proposals that are currently being considered in the commission's proposal for a new programme of community action in the field of public health. what i am proposing is that this commitment should now be implemented urgently as regards transport and health. some people will say that this methodology is not yet ready to be implemented. i would counter that very strongly. while this methodology, like all methodology, is still evolving there is more than enough knowledge to start implementing now. we need to be very clear about that. the other part of my report focuses on promoting cycling and walking within the bounds of subsidiarity. i make a number of proposals which would help to promote those modes of transport in the eu. but i want to finish by coming back to an amendment that i notice that the pse has tabled to the report which will have the effect of delaying the start of the health impact assessment until 2004. i regret that amendment since the methodologies exist for starting this process now. there is really no need to wait three years until the commission comes up simply with proposals. for that reason, i will be making an oral amendment, which i understand has been agreed to by the pse, to change the year 2004 to 2003. i hope very much that the other groups will accept that too. action in this field is urgent. until we are prepared to give health concerns a major place in transport strategy, our children will go on paying for our inaction with their health, and increasingly with their lives.
mr president, members of the house need no telling how useful to us the publication recent and forthcoming work in committee is. it gives us a way to plan forward. a week ago i was asked by a colleague who works as an advisor to the scottish parliament if there was anyway i could help her with the problem of foreseeing business coming forward in the european parliament in order that committees of that other parliament should be aware of our work and able to plan in relation to it. i said that there was a marvellous publication and i would get it for her. my staff asked for it in parliament this week and i asked the parliament office in edinburgh if they could provide it. i was informed that this is a rare work of which members of parliament get one copy each and which may not be copied for anyone else, and no further copies can be obtained. in these days of transparency in the conduct of our business, it seems to me that is a provision which ought to be re-examined. this very useful publication should be made widely available. a second point: yesterday, we approved minutes which drew attention to mrs doyle's statement of thursday, 7 february, that in respect of the watson report the ppe-ed group by mistake failed to vote in favour of the habeas corpus amendment. had they not made that mistake because of a late change in numbering, that amendment would have been carried in parliament. this is a momentous fact which i hope will be drawn to the attention of commissioner vitorino, the president-in-office of the council and mrs palacio vallelersundi as chair of the relevant committee of this house.
mr president, i very much welcome the establishment of the second phase of socrates and thank mrs pack for her excellent work. we have undoubtedly seen increased cooperation in the field of european education combined with a new commitment to life-long learning and that is heartening. in wales, my own nation, and indeed the whole of the uk, there is a problem in encouraging the acquisition of language skills across the board. erasmus has gone a long way to improving this and i would like to see an increase in the figure of 460 000 participating students a year. such exchanges make a distinct commitment to better linguistic skills, but also promote cultural cooperation. the commission must continue to do its utmost to ensure that the application procedure is more user-friendly and i agree with comments by other speakers that at the moment the administrative side of the programme makes it difficult for participants. there has been a real administrative burden on the applicants throughout this programme, particularly under the comenius scheme which needs to be addressed urgently. regardless of how successful this programme is, it must always be as open as possible for those wishing to participate.
mr president, education, education, education – the british prime minister once said this was his priority. i have some doubts about that and i really wonder whether this is our priority in europe. certainly not if you look at what we spend on it. in europe we spend eur 2.5 billion each year on olives, we spent less than eur 2 billion over six years on the socrates programme. the rapporteur even had to fight to get a separate debate on education on our agenda this morning. for the single market to flourish and for europe to flourish we need an educated and mobile workforce, confident about crossing national boundaries. the socrates programme is important for that and so making it more efficient as ms pack's report urges is really very important. linguistic skills are certainly important for labour mobility. we all know that those students who participate in the socrates programme benefit tremendously from it; sadly, not enough students do. for students from my own country there is always an imbalance between the number of continental students wanting to go to the united kingdom and the very limited number of british students prepared are willing to go to continental countries. what is the reason for that? it is very clear – the lack of linguistic skills among students in britain. we must send a message to the british government that they should reverse their appalling decision of the last few weeks to allow secondary students in britain not to learn any foreign language at all. that is certainly not the way to ensure that europe will flourish or that britain will get the best benefits from its membership of the european union. (applause)
madam president, last year with the european parliament’s committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport, i had the opportunity to visit cracow in poland. we learned a great deal from that visit, not least that the applicant countries will make a tremendous contribution to the cultural life and vitality of europe. we asked a question of one of the professors at the cultural institute in cracow: is there a distinctive european culture the reply summed it up neatly: he said he often visited america, and clearly we share a western culture with the united states, but nonetheless when he went there was something missing and that was the historic environment. he said that in city like cracow you can see, touch, feel history and culture all around. i can certainly see why as a citizen of that city he made that point. so i endorse mr graça moura's comment that it was regrettable that the historic environment was not included in the forum on cultural cooperation last year. we must never neglect the historic environment in all our countries. i simply endorse the rapporteurs call to include our mediterranean neighbours, our islamic neighbours; we must cooperate with the islamic countries. in particular we must remember that europe today is a multicultural society. we must rejoice in that and we must make sure that our programme contains significant elements to deal with that. there has been comment today, some of them fair criticisms, about difficulties in administration, but i want to cite a success story. i was delighted in my own constituency of portsmouth that a grant of eur 150 000 was given to a consortium of museums, including portsmouth's d-day museum, dedicated to peace across europe. that is a project that certainly has been very successful and they are delighted to have received european support. we must monitor projects very carefully. that is one i am sure that will pass with flying colours. if we want more money for culture in europe, let us think seriously about a european lottery to get the money for it.
mr president, i welcome mrs gröner's report very much. despite a belated start, the youth programme has proved to be an invaluable programme. why is this programme valuable? it is important because one of its main objectives is to include a higher proportion of disadvantaged young people: individuals, groups, or organisations, which otherwise would have no access at all to any kind of european funding. there has been some criticism, of course, concerning the high administrative costs, as the programme comprises so many small projects, which are naturally therefore more expensive to administer. i have been fortunate to have worked closely with a disadvantaged youth group from wales, my own nation, who received funding under the programme. the young people involved gained so much and to see them speaking here in brussels, some of whom were previously young offenders, highlighted to me the importance of this programme. the inclusion of worthwhile projects with disadvantaged youth groups, i assure you, is worth every penny of the expenditure. we must safeguard the programme and protect its main objectives of targeting disadvantaged young people.
- we now move to the votes. report (a5-0032/2002) by mr maccormick, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, on the request for waiver of the immunity of mr charles pasqua parliament shall adopt the decision. report (a5-0033/2002) by mr maccormick, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, on the request for the waiver of the immunity of mr jean-charles marchiani parliament shall adopt the decision. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union, including the european union's external borders, and to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu's external borders. the internet: a first level domain for the eu, in operation (rapporteur: mrs flesch) before the vote
- it is on the ballot, but i will read the draft council statement publicly. 'the council shares the parliament's desire to ensure the rapid implementation of the .eu top-level domain. in view of the presidency conclusions of the stockholm european council (23 and 24 march 2001), in which the council committed itself to taking the necessary measures, together with the commission, to make the internet a first-level domain.' the commission has also proposed that the member states should ensure that the information on the use of the 'european electronic commerce' system is made available to users as soon as possible, and that they will do their utmost to ensure that the relevant measures necessary for the implementation of the regulation are adopted swiftly. member states shall recognise that, in order to ensure that the registry responsible for the organisation, administration and management of the internet top-level domain ". the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new regulation and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new regulation.
- i'm sorry about that. i've tried to be as balanced as possible, but we don't debate this. i believe that the response to mrs diez's comments shows that this house absolutely condemns any terrorist attack and expresses its solidarity with the three victims mentioned. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the definition of the concept of 'commercial'. parliament adopted the resolution. the european parliament has voted in favour of the report, which calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism. parliament adopted the resolution. the european parliament adopted a resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of the congo (drc) and the situation in the democratic republic of the congo (drc). report (a5-0024/2002) by mr blak, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the measures taken by the commission in the light of the observations contained in the resolution accompanying the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european communities for the financial year 1999 (com (2001) 696 - c5-0577/2001 - 2001/2123 (dec)) parliament adopted the resolution. report (a5-0028/2002) by mr gahrton, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, on the communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament on relations between the european union and the south caucasus in the framework of the partnership and cooperation agreements (com (99) 272 - c5-0116/1999 - 1999/2119 (cos)) parliament adopted the resolution. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. report (a5-0021/2002) by mrs pack, on behalf of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport, on the implementation of the socrates programme parliament adopted the resolution. report (a5-0018/2002) by mr graça moura, on behalf of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport, on the implementation of the culture 2000 programme parliament adopted the resolution. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. - i 'm not .
- voting is closed. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union.
in writing. - the vote by the british conservative delegation today reflected our considerable reservations about this report, which are not only related to the importance it attaches to fiscal coordination and the benefits of the single currency it mentions. the member states face a crucial task: the full implementation of the lisbon council conclusions on stimulating employment, mainly by encouraging the competitiveness of their economies, their businesses and their citizens. we are firm believers in social inclusion. despite the adoption of some of our amendments, we believe that this report implies that social inclusion leads to full employment. we believe the opposite is true.
in writing. - as a party we have stated in our national parliament that we are in favour of the establishment of a court in principle, but the problems lie in the details. that is essentially the american position as well. the main problem they raise - and this affects us too as we supply more un peacekeepers than any other country - is that the provisions on so-called "command responsibility" are so vaguely worded that crimes committed by soldiers or groups of soldiers could result in military or political leaders all along the chain of command being charged for acts they did not plan, did not participate in or even knew about. the americans have constantly raised the risk of malicious prosecution and we share these concerns. that is why the conservatives voted against it last april, and that is still our position. it is not a question of appearing as englishmen opposed to the international role of the united kingdom, but of playing the role of a country with real responsibilities and being careful about what we sign. mr. clinton signed it at the last minute, but said (publicly) that he recommended his successor not submit the treaty to the senate for ratification. mr. bush said he wouldn't, and anyway, this treaty has virtually no support in the senate. there is also the problem of paragraph (a) of the joint resolution which suggests that terrorists committing war crimes and crimes against humanity can be tried under the provisions of the court. many legal experts - including the house of commons library - and governments are strongly opposed to it. some of them have ensured in rome that legislation on terrorism is not specifically included in the statutes. i refer you to the french government's declaration on ratification, which states the following: the government of the french republic considers that the term 'armed conflict' in article 8 (2) (b) and (c) refers, in itself and in its context, to a situation which does not include ordinary crimes, including terrorist acts, whether they are collective or isolated. the uk government made a similar statement in june 1999, in the hope that a way could be found to reach an agreement on the future inclusion of terrorist acts. after 9/11, it is clearly more difficult to say that everyone, except terrorists, should be covered by these provisions. to say that they can be targeted would be an attempt to solve the square of the circle, but that's a disputed interpretation, to say the least. some tories, such as douglas hurd in the house of lords, have also raised the problem this might pose for the settlement of international disputes, although this concern is tempered to some extent by the residual powers of the un security council to prevent prosecution in the interests of international security and peace.
- voting is closed. communication of common positions of the council - composition of committees - transmission of texts adopted at this part-session - calendar of next part-sessions: see minutes.
- i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 12.11 p.m.)
mr president, on a point of order i would have appreciated being given the floor before you called the vote. it is extraordinary that the plenary part-session should allow these appalling ethnic clashes last week in gujerat to pass unremarked. they are one of the worst examples of ethnic violence, certainly in india, for a considerable time. they raise very worrying issues about india as a secular state. they also raise side issues which could affect kashmir. it is quite extraordinary that parliament has refused to take the opportunity to mark its views on this issue. it is quite extraordinary that we are debating clementines rather than ethnic violence in india, given the huge importance of that subject.
mr president, on a point of order, can we assume from that intervention that all the other members of the british labour delegation believe in socialist principles? (laughter and applause)
mr president, on a point of order. i am always pleased when my fellow graduates from the london school of economics get up to make clever speeches. i would point out that i am here in this group to assist mr blair, whose main allies in europe, according to the labour party press, are mr aznar and mr berlusconi. i will be able to help mr blair far more from this group than i could from the other group! (laughter)and anybody who imagines that i have been putting forward socialist principles in the socialist group for the last two or three years has clearly not listened closely to the nuances of my position. i stood as an independent and i am still an independent – as everyone who has had to deal with me realises!
mr president, on a point of order. i would like to respond to mr perry's challenge and confirm that all the labour members in the european parliament are committed to socialist principles! (laughter)* * *
mr president, i would like to draw attention to a matter which is of direct relevance to this house, namely the situation of near anarchy that exists around the entrances to the channel tunnel at present at the freight depot. since saturday night, rail freight has been prevented completely from going through the tunnel. this is a direct consequence of the activities of illegal migrants coming out of sangatte. the tunnel was closed last wednesday. it has been effectively put on quarter-time since november 2001. this is affecting jobs in the uk and elsewhere. it is affecting businesses. nobody seems to care about what is happening here. the authorities in france are not doing anything; the commission is not taking action. i have asked the commission to address this situation. what about the single market and the free movement of goods between france and the united kingdom? no-one seems to care. this is a matter which requires immediate attention.
i rise as a member of the mashrek delegation, to mention to the house that since the last part-session there has been an announcement by his majesty, the king of bahrain, that the national parliament, which was suspended in 1975, will at last be reconvened later this year. i wonder if you, mr president, would write to send fraternal greetings and to say that this parliament looks forward to establishing direct contact with it at an appropriate time. meanwhile, to share with colleagues another piece of news about that, i am sure that everyone would be delighted to hear that, in these very first elections in october, women will be entitled to stand for the first time.
six months on from the tragic events of 11 september, now must be the time to reassert the need for effective global governance. while i welcome the commissioner's statement, i regret the fact that the commission's work has not been more balanced – recognising, for example, that there is a dark side to globalisation, too – and has not been more ambitious. why did the commission not take up mr verhofstadt's suggestion that we should have a g8 not based on wealth and composed of the richest nations, but based on population and composed of the world's major regional bodies, thereby involving the african union, mercosur, the south asian area of regional cooperation (saarc) and so on? globalism has led to a world of interconnected communities. technology and language learning have transformed our ability to communicate. trade and investment have changed our economic perspectives and vastly increased our wealth. travel has opened up new horizons and new opportunities for human contact. and yet all this has not come without a cost, because criminals have organised themselves into global networks; humankind's damage to our natural environment threatens the future viability of life on our planet; and powerlessness and alienation are restricting opportunities for far too many to develop their own abilities and to improve the lot of themselves and their families. history, mr president, suggests that if the world were truly a global village, many more would be shocked by the misery of the poor. of 6 billion human beings, half are living on less than eur 2 per day and 800 million are going to sleep hungry every night. i say, therefore, to our friends on the right that yes, the market economy, if intelligently regulated, is the most powerful instrument known to mankind to lift people out of poverty. that we have not yet learned to use it properly, however, is shown by financial crises, by environmental degradation and by the continued spread of preventable disease. moreover, our failure to reach 0.7% of gdp in development aid is depriving the poor of eur 100 billion per annum. i say to the left that we need to reform our trade policies because aid and debt relief for developing countries without access to our markets can be nothing more than a palliative. to the greens i would say that access to scientific progress is also important. it is the key to better nutrition, to improved health and life expectancy and to rising living standards. we must not starve the developing world of the benefits of innovation. the challenge to humankind is to establish effective instruments of international government. the united nations, the international financial institutions, nato, etc. have not succeeded as much as they should. yet, in the european union we may have a model for wider global governance. we need from our current leaders vision and commitment such as that shown by the founders of the union. it involves the self-confidence to engage with the world economic forum, the world social forum and others and the self-confidence to say to our friends in the united states that their legitimate sense of vulnerability after 11 september should not lead them in a unilateralist direction – whether in matters relating to military or economic security, the environment or fighting crime. global problems require global solutions. (applause)
, draftsman of the opinion of the committee on citizen's freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs. – mr president, first of all, i start from the premise that information equals power; and, quite frankly, we need to empower our citizens. let me also congratulate mr andreasen on an excellent and innovative report, looking at the problems, but, i believe, bringing fresh and new solutions. may i thank him for his support and may i also thank the libe committee for its support for my opinion which it voted upon and adopted unanimously. it is a sad reflection for me that i did not gain that same support from my own group within the culture committee, for various reasons which i hope will become obvious at some point in the debate. let me turn to mr andreasen's report. the implementation of existing policies and future development of the european union needs to be based on active and informed participation of its citizens. i particularly welcome moves to coordinate the information activities of the institutions and as far as possible provide information in a one-stop shop so that it is not necessary for citizens to understand the institutional structure of the union in order to obtain the information they require. another key aspect of information policy of the eu institutions is access to documents, and as i repeatedly noted in connection with the adoption of regulation no 1049/2001 on public access to documents of the institutions, documents – and i stress this – cannot be separated from the information contained in them. it therefore follows that the information and communication policy of the institutions should be coordinated with the activities for the implementation of the aforementioned regulation. it is therefore sad that we fail to grasp the political opportunity to have the interinstitutional group on information which is responsible for cooperation on information activities working and taking on board the activities in article 15 of regulation 1049/2001. i hope we will revisit this and take this wonderful opportunity to combine the information policies, transparency and access to documents.
mr president, the ppe-de group is in full agreement with the rapporteur, mr andreasen, on what we regard as an excellent report. the communication from the commission calls for cooperation, and that is the key word: there has to be cooperation in communication. we will be proposing a very slight amendment suggesting that the committee of the regions and the economic and social committee should be allowed to sit as observers on the proposed institutional group. we all know the present dire state of citizens' knowledge about the organisation and policies of the eu. eurobarometer showed that only 6% of eu citizens thought they knew a lot about the eu. 83% said that they know a little, or even very little. this influences the low and declining turnout in european parliament elections – down to 49% at the last election. that is a problem for democracies all over the world, and not least the united states of america, but it is a real problem for the eu as well. when the people of ireland rejected the treaty of nice in the recent referendum, the most telling slogan was: "if you don't know, vote no". that was precisely what the people did. i would be the first to admit that my own country, the united kingdom, is probably one of the worst examples. according to eurobarometer again, we are bottom of the list in terms of knowledge, but not surprisingly top of the list in having reservations and objections to the eu. mr andreasen is absolutely right to say that the eu must concentrate on factual information. diverse and balanced information must be free of propaganda; but the people of all countries are crying out for information and explanation of what the eu is doing. according to eurobarometer 66%, that is two out of every three european citizens, want more information. that has to be within proper cost constraints but again, as has already been said, at present we are spending just 25 cents per annum – for english ears, that is 15 pence per citizen per year. citizens will also judge us more by what we do than what we say. this report calls on the council of ministers to be more open in its decision process. its secrecy does a profound disservice to europe. we in parliament need to ask ourselves whether we are getting value for money. we are always delighted to see visitors in this parliament, but 43% of our budget goes on the visitors service. are we really getting value for money? we certainly need to target the media and information formers. we need to be more positive about euronews. we should also not neglect radio as a good way of getting information. it is properly addressed in the report. all i would say is that the eu has created a stable and prosperous continent. half of europe is queuing up to join the eu and yet 48% of present citizens wonder whether it is a good thing. this report is not before time. it must not be allowed to gather dust.
, rapporteur. – mr president, in the aftermath of the enron scandal, it is tempting simply to say that these proposals for the introduction of international accounting standards into the community are an idea whose time has come. but it is wrong to see it simply in those terms, because there is more to it than that. if europe is to match the united states economically, we need to create a single capital market; otherwise borrowing will also be more expensive here, which in turn inevitably favours the united states. one of the over-riding imperatives of europe's economy must be to compete in the global market, and this change is a necessary precondition to that end. in its consideration of these proposals by the legal affairs committee, a very wide-ranging rewording of the text has been carried out which i understand is acceptable to both the commission and the council and which also meets the concerns of the committee. i therefore hope that if parliament as a whole agrees, we may be able to deal with this proposal in a single reading, which will in turn convey a significant message around the globe. in particular, some important elements have been introduced and a number should be mentioned. these include the following: firstly, following president prodi's statement to parliament last month about the comitology aspects of the lamfalussy proposal, the commission has agreed that the relevant and appropriate principles contained in it will be applied pari passu in this instance. i would therefore be extremely grateful if the commissioner will be able to confirm this to the house now, since it is an important and crucial point to members. secondly, in the special case of european community companies filing their accounts in u.s. gaap on a regulated exchange in a third country, they will be able to defer implementation of the relevant provisions of this regulation until 2007 as opposed to 2005. thirdly, it has been clarified that the agreed international accounting standards will be published in their legally binding form in the official journal in all the official languages. fourthly, this proposal expressly excludes the mandatory application of international accounting standards as far as smes are concerned. it is of course open to member states to apply them nationally, but that is a matter for them and not for us. in any event, as a result, i understand, of a community initiative, the international accounting standards council is going to consider the whole question of accounting issues and smes, which of course is something which is entirely separate from what we are discussing now. it is also important to explain to the house that this regulation is in any event contained within the parameters of the existing european community accounting code and that the standards themselves can only be adopted by the international accounting standards committee after a rigorous and transparent process agreed by the iasc in its own properly adopted and legally enforceable constitution. it should also be made quite clear that the commission plays an important role – as do the member states' standard setters – in the formulation of the standards according to the iasc's due process procedures. in addition, a wide range of affected sectors in europe have a formal relationship with the commission in this regard through efrag, the european financial reporting advisory group, which has been established for this purpose. as i said in my opening remarks, in the aftermath of the enron collapse in the united states, this proposal is timely because it is highly unlikely that such a debacle could have occurred under this approach to accounting standards, which is purposive or teleological as opposed to prescriptive. but of course, in itself, that is insufficient to avoid fraud and misfeasance. proper enforcement, as is always the case with all legislation, is essential; and elements to achieve that are distinct from but obviously associated with standard setting. in a world where accounting standards generally register low on the richter scale of political newsworthiness, they have a much higher profile now than is normal. for europe to pass this legislation and apply international accounting standards would be a major step towards establishing a worldwide set of accounting rules and, what is more, a set of worldwide rules in the establishment and creation of which europe will play an important part. mr president, this is the prize. it is now, i believe, within our grasp. if we in parliament support this proposal, it will mean that parliament is seen to be serious about business and commerce, and it will show the world that europe means business about business. and that is the goal of the financial services action plan.
mr president, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the draftsman for the consensus that they have drawn together. when this report first appeared it seemed to cover a small technical matter, but this is in fact a small technical matter with the ability to make a huge difference. it is of great importance, as has already been said, to the financial services action plan and to the better functioning of the internal market. as lord inglewood has already said, it is a proposal that, politically speaking, has come at the right moment. the collapse of a corporate giant like enron and the reverberations of such a collapse for employees, for small investors, for pensioners, convince us that, if there is a way of helping prevent such misery for some of our citizens, then we should of course pursue it. these international accounting standards seem to hold out such a promise, both within and beyond the european union. i hope that is so. i hope also, as other speakers have said, that the system involving a regulatory committee – a technical committee set up within our institutions – will provide the openness and, most importantly, the democratic accountability that this parliament seeks. our society, our citizens, have a huge stake in the success and health of our large corporations. it is clearly our duty to ensure that the standards by which they are governed or regulated attain the best levels of corporate governance. this report is an important step in achieving that and i can assure the rapporteur that he will have the full support of the eldr group in this house.
mr president, firstly i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr ferber, for all his work and, indeed, thank the commissioner for his work. some of you might find that a little surprising, as it is well known that commissioner bolkestein and i have not seen eye to eye on this matter all of the time. however, what we have from the council is the result of some good work all round. i want to highlight what we as a parliament asked for in the first reading and what we actually got. we asked for controlled and gradual liberalisation. did the council agree with that? yes, they did. we asked for codecision for the european parliament for any future steps to full liberalisation. did we get that? yes, we did. we asked for special services to be taken out of the directive. did they agree with that? yes, they did. we also asked for the universal service to be guaranteed. did they give us that? yes, they did. the one thing they did not give us was the starting point of 150 grammes for that controlled and gradual liberalisation. as the rapporteur said, they came up with a compromise of 100 and then 50 grammes. that is not bad going for a european parliament to put five demands to the council, get four of them in full and half of the other. therefore, i would like to make those people who wish to stick to the 150 gramme level aware of what their actions will lead to should they pursue that particular policy. if we go for 150 grammes it will lead to a failure of the agreement. the council common position will unravel, and collapse. all our gains, including codecision on future moves will be lost and the commission will then move in under article 80 – as i am sure they are keen to do – and give us full liberalisation sooner rather than later. if ever there was a classic case of cutting off your nose to spite your face, it is that of those people advocating 150 grammes. finally, through this chamber i wish to make a plea to postcomm, the british postal regulator. you now have an opportunity, through this directive, to end your self-declared war on the british post office and the british people. we have all been impressed by your macho image, clearly learned from watching too many world wrestling federation bouts. but europe has showed you how to maintain a viable post office offering a universal service of excellent quality at an affordable price. so for god's sake, postcomm, get off the battlements and see sense!
commission. – mr president, this subject has been debated in many places over many years and is of great importance, and i therefore welcome the fact that many speakers have given their opinion on it. i am fully aware that i do not need to re-emphasise the importance of postal services for the european economy and its citizens. i would like, however, to reaffirm the need to make progress with the social reform that has been initiated and to move forward towards the accomplishment of the internal market for postal services. in this context, i am happy that the in-depth debates held in the european parliament and the council are about to bring appropriate solutions to the key challenges which have been widely discussed. i am grateful to the institutions of the european union for together planning a road map for supporting the ongoing modernisation of the postal sector whilst maintaining the asset of the universal postal service. may i, in particular, praise the rapporteur, mr ferber, and also the shadow rapporteur, mr simpson, whom i thank in particular for the kind words which he addressed to me. i should like to thank both the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur for their support and their constructive attitudes which have greatly contributed to making all this possible. steering such a difficult dossier was a challenge which they have successfully met thanks to the support of their colleagues. the common position reached in council sets out a clear path for a gradual and controlled implementation of the internal market for postal services. it provides for sufficient time for all the market players to be prepared, and for guaranteeing that the universal service is maintained. the belgian presidency – mr sterckx referred to the presidency of the country of which he is a citizen- the belgian presidency has found a good compromise which successfully meets a triple challenge: firstly, to reconcile divided member states around a common approach; secondly, to largely reflect the european parliament's position from the first reading – mr simpson enumerated the five points of which he said four-and-a-half were achieved by parliament; and thirdly to gain wide endorsement from the industry stakeholders, including unanimous support from the 15 incumbent postal operators. if i may say so, mr president, the european parliament can indeed be proud of its significant impact on the common position. let me mention four points. firstly, the definition of special services was deleted, as mentioned by mr simpson. secondly, the timetable and weight limits were significantly modified to meet the demand for a more gradual and controlled approach. thirdly, derogations will be possible concerning liberalisation of outgoing cross-border correspondence to the extent necessary to ensure the provision of the universal service. fourthly, the european parliament will be involved before any subsequent decisive step, confirming, if appropriate, the full accomplishment of the internal market in the year 2009, or determining any other step in the light of the results of a dedicated study. it would therefore seem that parliament has significantly influenced the common position, and congratulations on that accomplishment are due. furthermore, the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur have managed to maintain this widely supported compromise. they have succeeded in strengthening the common position by updating its monitoring and controlling provisions in order to ensure that the stakeholders will be kept properly informed and fully involved during the process. the commission supports the demand from a majority of members of this parliament for regular reports on the application of this directive. i certainly appreciate their wish to be kept informed of developments. a similar process has proved to be successful in other sectors, such as telecoms and transport, as mr sterckx pointed out. this demand from parliament is not only legitimate but also beneficial, since it ensures that the next codecision procedure can be as successful as this one in gathering wide support among the stakeholders for such an important community policy. the commission also appreciates parliament's improvements to the accuracy of the common position drafting. in this spirit the commission can accept, and i can personally support, all the compromise amendments worked out during this second reading to further strengthen the common position. this concerns amendments nos 1, 2 and 3. on the other hand – and in the same spirit – it will be no surprise that the commission is not able to support other amendments which diverge from the largely supported approach of the common position. this concerns the remaining proposed amendments to that common position. finally, with regard to the proposed legislative resolution "asking the commission to involve all the relevant actors in the sector as well as the european parliament and council as closely as possible in the preparation, implementation and follow-up of the prospective study", i have already covered that point. i should like to state again my best intention to meet this wish of the european parliament when the time comes, using the most appropriate means and in full respect of the applicable agreements between the commission and parliament on follow-up procedures for european parliament resolutions. in conclusion, i should like again sincerely to thank this parliament for its attitude on this report. the expected result, thanks to the contribution of all who have been involved in its preparation, is good for the postal market as a whole and will, i trust, give a lift to the barcelona summit which is to take place in a few days time when it reviews progress on our ambition to become the most competitive and dynamic economy in the world by the year 2010. this report demonstrates in a clear and practical way that european institutions can transform their commitments into action.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0054/2002) by mrs paciotti, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament, council and commission decision on the status and general conditions for the performance of the duties of the european data protection supervisor (com (2001) 411 - c5-0384/2001 - 2001/2150 (aci)).
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs andthe internal market. – i can only endorse what my colleague mrs buitenweg has said, on behalf of the legal affairs committee. i have to say that it is rather disappointing that the two opinions from the committees have been largely ignored in the committee of citizens' freedoms. it is important that we say here and now that the mere fact that we strongly approve of the principles of protecting data and that we want to move forward, and also the fact that this needs to be done quickly, does not absolve us from the job of scrutinising this proposal properly. normally, as he knows, i am very supportive of what mr bolkestein does, but in this case i do not feel that the commission has in any way justified to us the salary and status of the staff that it proposes to administer this work. i very much echo what mrs buitenweg has said. if this goes through as proposed, to carry out the task that we have set down here, we will be appointing someone who is substantially higher graded and better paid than someone running a major community institution such as the trade mark protection office in alicante – a major autonomous institution. as mrs buitenweg said, we do not yet know how many staff will be engaged in this process. i asked the commission to give me more details about the establishment, the organisation, and the responsibilities and particularly the role of the assistant. yet the commission is proposing that we should appoint an assistant on the basis of someone who manages 1 000 staff in the european court of justice – now that does not make sense. frankly, i have to say to mr bolkestein, if this goes through tomorrow – and i hope that we will actually have the opportunity to discuss in more detail and look at some amendments that you will accept – the fact we have come in at the end of the process has made it very difficult for those of us who want change to put forward acceptable amendments. if this goes through, you will have got off pretty lightly and i hope you will give us assurances, firstly that you will properly justify this grade and position, and secondly, that we will be scrutinising every move you make when you put it in place, to make sure that it is done properly.
mr president, first of all may i say that i have much sympathy with the remarks that have just been passed by mr harbour. he has spoken very clearly and i am sure that commissioner bolkestein has listened carefully to what he had to say. i take this, however, from a slightly different tack. the position of the data protection supervisor is of enormous importance. the charter of fundamental rights which i helped to prepare states that everyone has the right to the protection of personal data concerning him or her and the amsterdam treaty called for the establishment of an independent supervisor by 1 january, 1999. this deadline is, of course, well past and our main priority, therefore, is to create this post as soon as we possibly can. the urgency of the matter should not in itself be an excuse for us to rush it through without proper discussion. indeed, the salary of both the data protection supervisor and his assistant has resulted in numerous discussions within our committees. many people, myself included, were unhappy about the unreasonably high salary of the supervisor, which will of course be comparable to that of the ombudsman. but i contrast this discussion with the kind which one might have in a national parliament where, frankly, the issue itself is of such dramatic importance to the establishment of this role that it ought perhaps to be dealt with not in this particular plenary but elsewhere. we are not as flexible as i would like. most of the matters relating to the post have already been laid down in council regulation (ec) no 45/2001 and published in the official journal. i know that the secretariat has also declared a number of the amendments to be out of order for various reasons and this has caused concern among many colleagues. internal politics has also been a feature of this debate. it is unfortunate, that there is no single data protection instrument for all the pillars. as a member of the future of europe convention, i do hope, indeed i might even anticipate, that at the conclusion of the work that we shall be doing, it may well be that the protection of the private citizen and the interests of the private citizen, both in terms of the work of the ombudsman – which i highly value and respect – and also in connection with data protection issues, will be spelled out very clearly as something in need of development in the future. i hope, therefore, that whatever we decide – and i do hope that we decide to proceed with this post when we vote on this week – we will return to the matter and at an appropriate moment, perhaps, during discussion of the next treaty or before then, we will look at ways of endorsing the position of citizens and making sure their relationship with institutions in europe is a properly balanced one.
mr president, the commission has argued that the right of access to documents and the right to privacy are both legitimate rights and that when they both enter into consideration, a balance has to be struck. however, the idea of striking a balance between them on a case-by-case basis whenever a name is mentioned misrepresents the nature both of dealing with openness in the public sector and the right to privacy. the principle of openness means that public bodies should take decisions as openly as possible and is now defined in the public access regulation. that regulation provides for exceptions to access. the point of this exception is that a public body may, in carrying out its public duties, come into possession of information about the private and family life of individuals. however, there is nothing in article 286 of the ec treaty or in the data protection directive to suggest that data protection rules should be applied as a general principle of confidentiality in public administrations so as to require a public balancing exercise whenever a document mentions a name. such an over-interpretation would damage not only the right of public access to documents, but also the genuine purpose of data protection and the performance of the duties of the data protection supervisor.
commission. – mr president, the aim of this draft decision is to ensure the full implementation of article 286 of the amsterdam treaty and of regulation (ec) no 45/2001 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the community institutions and bodies, adopted under codecision procedure on 18 december 2000. before going any further may i stress that the regulation we are now debating was adopted by this parliament in codecision in a single reading, so it is a little late for some members of this parliament to complain about the contents of this regulation, for example where it stipulates that there should be an assistant regulator in this area. it is a little late to start complaining about that, but today we are dealing with other issues and, therefore, i should like to continue my contribution to this debate by saying that it concerns the place of data protection in relation to the right of citizens to transparent administration. some members who have spoken tonight have expressed concern that this initiative might impede, or even reverse, the significant progress made towards achieving the greatest possible transparency in community administration. i must assure these members that the principle of transparency, and in particular the principle of public access to documents as enshrined in the amsterdam treaty, in regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 and in the charter of fundamental rights, is applicable to the community institutions and bodies and in particular to the european data protection supervisor. on the other hand neither of these two principles – data protection on the one hand and public access to documents on the other – has absolute force or takes precedence over the other. the human rights convention as interpreted in the case law of the strasbourg courts and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union require that a balance should be struck in specific cases in order to reconcile the various interests at issue. any attempt to change this by putting an artificially narrow interpretation on the field of application of the fundamental rights governing data protection by denying the representatives of the new body to be set up the institutional status they need to assert their independence, would be on shaky ground. the european court of human rights here in strasbourg has built up a body of case law on the interpretation of the scope of protection of private and family life which cannot and should not be called into question by this decision. in accordance with this case law the professional life of individuals – employees and employers alike – is not excluded from the field of application of data protection. amendment no 1 would introduce an unacceptable ambiguity in this respect. the status of the european data protection supervisor and his deputy, who together form a sort of mini-committee, must, above all, ensure their independence in the community institutional context beyond the mere budgetary aspects. the ombudsman is a good community-level reference, given his role in monitoring administrative procedures. at national level – i should like to say in particular to mr harbour but also to others – a judge or even a chief justice is often taken as the reference. the draft decision takes account of the two references. any reduction in the status of the deputy would mean loss of independence without any corresponding budgetary savings. amendments nos 10, 11, 13 and 14 are not sufficiently precise to determine the level of remuneration of the president and his deputy. amendments nos 12 and 16 contain excellent ideas but the present decision's legal base of article 43, regulation 45/2001, is not sufficiently large to carry them. amendments nos 9 and 15 refer to parts only of the evidence and need redrafting with a view to achieving more balance. parliament and the other institutions concerned have a great responsibility towards the citizens of europe to ensure that the data protection system, including the supervision provided for in the treaty as long ago as 1999, is put in place as soon as possible. with that in mind the commission intends to be very flexible with regard to the amendments accepted in the civil liberties commission in the tripartite dialogue with a view to establishing a final text of the decision by agreement between the three institutions. it also hopes that the council, which has already expressed its agreement with the commission proposal, may be able to act likewise.
i feel i should raise a point of order in relation to what the commissioner has just said. he referred to a number of texts on the definition of privacy and he referred to article 8 of the european convention on human rights, which guarantees the protection of privacy and family life. as the rapporteur on the regulation on access to documents, i feel it only right to point out that in the judgment of 16 february 2000, the european court of human rights confirmed its earlier case law, that it is data relating to the private life of an individual that falls within the scope of article 8. the preamble to the data protection convention and recitals to the data protection directive also make clear that their purpose is to protect the fundamental right of privacy, not to restrict the information available to citizens about public activities. if the commission pursues the line indicated tonight, it is on a collision course with parliament. (applause)
- mr. cashman, whether this is a motion of pure and simple procedure or not, i cannot make a decision at this time. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0046/2002) by mrs malmström, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the legislative and work programme of the european commission (amendment of article 57 of the regulation) (2001/2110 (reg)).
mr president, my group will support mrs malmström's proposals, and i would also like to offer her our congratulations for the hard work she has put in for more than nine months and in negotiating intensely with the commission. parliament and the commission have long recognised that legislative planning is a matter of common concern. the commission has the right of initiative. my group does not seek to change that. we have the right to call upon the commission to make proposals already given to us in the treaty. it has the right of initiative. we are a parliament that is master of its own timetable, unlike some national parliaments. we both therefore have an interest in reaching an understanding on the legislative programme coming up in any given year so as to plan our work, so as to exchange views on priorities, so as to reach agreement and convergence as much as possible. that has long been the case, but the actual procedures by which we have done it have not always been working satisfactorily, and i welcome this updating and rationalisation that has been put forward. given the number of times that we will be discussing and looking at the following year's programme in the different fora over a year, my one fear is that, if we are not self-disciplined, we will spend an enormous amount of time looking at what will come up well over a year ahead, without being very concrete. we must be self-disciplined and make sure that problem does not arise. there is a ghost missing from this feast, namely the council, and the role of the council presidency. council presidencies often present a programme to parliament as if they were assuming executive office. council presidents must remember that they are not taking over executive office when they become president of the council. they are merely chairing the body which is the co-legislative body with parliament for a short period of six months, with an inherited agenda. we must make sure that this legislative planning works without upsetting the whole balance of the system by delivering it in the wrong way.
i too would like to begin by congratulating mrs malmström on this report. it is an important proposal because it introduces a more formal structure into the process of parliament's scrutiny of the commission's legislative programme, which is, after all, a very important component of one of our most important functions – that is to say, scrutinising and holding the commission to account. following what the commission is up to is always slightly difficult unless one is a true initiate of the workings of the european political system. most people are not, and so to introduce a more formal structure into this process is, in my view, a very desirable development because it should assist those outside the circle of initiates, by providing as it does a series of markers for the cycle of the year's business. ignorance of the way in which the european union works, coupled with the failure of national parliaments to oversee and scrutinise european matters properly, are two of the great weaknesses in the european political structure as it has developed. now, while it is for national parliaments themselves to determine their own agendas, i as a member of the british second chamber as well as a member of this house feel that the formal structuring of the way that the european parliament scrutinises what the commission is doing may well be a very useful template for scrutiny by national parliaments and at the same time for disseminating accurate facts about what is going on at european level, to the benefit of all our citizens.
commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very grateful to you for the opportunity to take part in this debate on the reform of the rules of procedure of the european parliament and, in particular, the proposal for the revision of rule 57, which reflects the agreement we have reached between parliament and the commission on the modalities for presenting our legislative and work programme. the contacts we have had over the past few months have enabled us to find a solution to a constructive dialogue on this important subject. the text which the committee on constitutional affairs proposes to include in an annex to the rules of procedure of the european parliament respects the institutional role of the commission and parliament and honours the mutual commitments we have made over the last two and a half years. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs malmström, the entire parliament team and the representatives of the various political groups for the collaborative and constructive work - not always easy, but i think the result is worthwhile - in our debates and discussions, because i believe that this has enabled us to come up with a proposal which i hope will be beneficial to the functioning of the european institutions. the college of commissioners has discussed this matter in detail and has agreed that the right of initiative provided for in the treaties in its present form, with the commission's collegial responsibility, should be maintained. the european parliament must also be informed in good time and not only informed but also able to contribute its ideas and suggestions to the better definition of community policies. in this sense, i think that the agreement, which i will not explain, because mrs malmström has done it magnificently, perfectly captures a procedure which will allow these elements to be brought together. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must find a formula, which of course must be approved by the council. in any event, the commission hopes that this structured dialogue will enable us to concentrate, as mrs malmström has rightly said, on the political and strategic aspects of the broad lines of action, with realism, as the new president of the european parliament, mr cox, also said at the time. the prodi commission fully shares this objective and we want to avoid this process becoming a mere bureaucratic accounting operation, which is not obvious in order to maintain the corresponding rigor and to accompany the debates with general lines and policy approaches which - as has been said at some point - translate into specific proposals and policy lines. i hope that through this dialogue we will discuss our political priorities for 2003, in order to define concrete lines of action for an enlarged europe. in any event, the commission, as it has done since it took office in 1999, will faithfully implement the agreements with this parliament and we hope that the trust and cooperation between the two institutions will encourage the better functioning of the institutions and that, in addition, we will be able to find a formula in due course to involve the council as well. i would like to congratulate mrs malmström again. i think the discussions have been long, but the end result is worth it. in any case, we shall see it soon, because in a couple of months' time a first round of contributions from all the commissioners - through the specialised committees - will be made to our future plans for the coming year.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the next item is the report (doc.
- i declare the 2001-02 session of the european parliament closed. (the sitting was closed at 9.15 p.m.)
mr president, i want to raise a point of order on a very serious matter dealing with scotch whisky. a year ago, this parliament selected two whiskies to be put on sale to members of parliament, to visitors and to people visiting our shops in brussels and strasbourg with parliament's own label and own brand placed on the bottles. the college of quaestors has agreed all of the conditions necessary for having these whiskies placed on sale in our shops, yet the administration is still blocking their sale in our shops. this is a serious matter because it raises the question of who runs this parliament – the members or the administration? i would ask you, mr president, to intervene in this matter to ensure that the request of the college of quaestors taken on behalf of the members is carried out and that these branded whiskies are placed on sale in our shops. (applause)
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the year 2003 will be marked, if we are to meet the enlargement timetable, and we all want to do so, by the fact that preparations for enlargement must be made. this has already been emphasized here. in the enlargement countries, the negotiations will be concluded in 2003, the referenda will be held, the ratification processes of the accession treaties will be under way in the member states, the convention will present its recommendations for the future of europe in an enlarged union, and the european institutions will have to prepare themselves personally and organisationally for the fact that from 2004 onwards they will have more members, that from 2004 onwards they will exercise their responsibilities for many more people and many more member states. the three reports on the priorities for 2003 rightly focus on this essential task. i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mr färm and mr stenmarck, for their rigorous reports which make this very clear. on 27 february the commission adopted its priorities and its annual strategic plan for 2003. we have agreed on three priorities: firstly, preparation for enlargement; secondly, measures to strengthen stability and security in the european union and beyond; and thirdly, the priority of promoting sustainable economic development. the president of the commission has already had the opportunity to present this strategic plan to parliament and next week the debate will take place in the plenary to discuss the implications for the legislative programme. today we are concentrating on budgetary issues and the implications of the setting of priorities for budgetary planning. the budget for 2003 is set at a maximum of eur 102 billion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the agricultural policy will receive the largest share of the funds, as a result of the legal bases. we will of course be presenting the mid-term review of the agricultural policy in 2002, and this review will be accompanied by further reform proposals, but i think it is a little too optimistic to assume that these reform proposals will be reflected in the 2003 budget, which is simply not the pace at which the agricultural ministers are accustomed to agreeing to agricultural reforms. new initiatives under the 2003 priority are therefore focused primarily on the field of internal policies and on the field of external policy. the commission proposes to allocate some eur 270 million in the next year, i.e. 2003, to these priorities. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. once again, the action taken to promote an integrated strategy for joint civil protection: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the field of foreign policy, as we have seen time and again since the beginning of this parliamentary term, we will again be faced with increased demands. we will have to continue our involvement in the balkans, also in order not to jeopardise the successes achieved so far, and we will have to take on new tasks as the european union. i am referring specifically to the police operation in bosnia-herzegovina. the commission considers that the financing of the international police task force should be at least partly financed from the community budget as far as the operational costs of the joint operation are concerned. this is, of course, a new step. mr färm pointed out that this is a new measure, but the commission believes that it should also be clear that this is a joint measure. the council has given the question of the financing of this operation the highest priority for 2003, and i believe that we are in agreement in principle in all three institutions, but we must also agree on the conditions, that is to say, how the funds from the common foreign and security policy will be allocated. but it is quite possible that, in the case of further measures in the field of foreign and security policy for 2003, the appropriations in heading 4, the foreign policy budget, will not be sufficient to cover further measures of civilian crisis management, and i therefore urge the budgetary authority to examine swiftly the commission's proposal to create a new financial instrument. i think that in the coming months we should focus on discussing the views of the budgetary authority on the further development of the budget line for the common foreign and security policy. in the field of foreign policy, i should like to mention that we have given afghanistan a commitment to provide aid for the reconstruction of the country. this year, in 2003 and in the years to come, the people who have suffered under 20 years of war and oppression by the taliban desperately need help. this will be a priority for the next few years. i would also like to mention in the field of foreign policy that we will be faced with a new task for cyprus in 2003, which i hope will be the case. if we succeed in finding a political solution, we shall of course also have to provide financial support. i would remind you that the budget for aid and preparation for enlargement has so far been allocated only to the southern part of cyprus and not to the northern part. we shall also be faced with a new challenge. the commission also proposes to make a further transfer to the global health fund for external aid. the commission considers that the commitment to support the barcelona process in the mediterranean regions should be strengthened, in particular by increasing the availability of financing for private sector development. the commission has therefore proposed to the council the creation of a subsidiary of the european investment bank as an important possibility and has already planned a capital contribution of eur 25 million in the budget. back to preparing for enlargement. the preparation of enlargement means that the institutions of the european community will have to make use of additional human resources, specifically administrative resources. for example, the commission has to examine state aid in the enlargement countries from the first day of enlargement, to name just one of the tasks. we also want participation in the structural funds or the agricultural funds to be operational from day one, so that there is no time-gap. in concrete terms, this means that the administrative structure must be set up before enlargement. the commission therefore proposes the creation of 500 temporary posts in the commission. why temporary staff? we would welcome the possibility of recruiting staff from the enlargement countries to the commission as early as 2003. of course, we must be aware of the tight situation in heading 5, that is to say in the area of administrative expenditure. the commission fully agrees with mr stenmarck's report. that is why we have proposed in our proposal that staff be made available for the new political priorities by redeployment, and that is why it is absolutely necessary - and we agree entirely with mr stenmarck on this point too - that the report of the secretary-general which is on the table be examined in detail to see what savings are possible. the commission has presented a first such screening and nevertheless concludes that in all likelihood additional appropriations beyond the heading 5 budget will be needed in 2003 to finance the preparatory measures for enlargement. the proposal to use the flexibility reserve for this purpose is, in my view, entirely in line with the wording of the interinstitutional agreement, since it is a temporary situation, i.e. the financial planning did not provide the european institutions with the means to prepare for enlargement. it is obvious that the funds earmarked for enlargement cannot be used for this purpose in 2003. the budget doesn't allow it. i think, however, that given the special situation in 2003, we should examine intensively whether the flexibility reserve instrument can be used for this purpose. the last word on the flexibility reserve: it will be used anyway, because we agreed last year for the 2002 budget that the last tranche of the specific programme for the restructuring of the fishing fleet in spain and portugal should be made available in 2003. i think we are all aware that, as in previous years, we will again be faced in 2003 with new demands on the european budget. i would like to stress that the priorities set out in parliament's reports are very much in line with the commission's priorities. i therefore expect that we will again work together in the budgetary process to bring about the necessary flexibility and willingness to compromise to meet these requirements for 2003.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. – mr president, i should like to begin by thanking parliament's rapporteur, mr färm, for his extremely cooperative and helpful approach to the budget this year. for the first time in my parliamentary career i can honestly say i am looking forward to working with the committee on budgets on this year's budget. the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy fully supports the commission's reforms, which have increased its effectiveness and efficiency of delivery in the field of foreign affairs. we have some concerns, however, for the 2003 budget. firstly, as we take on more responsibilities and as the council goes around the world promising support here there and everywhere, insufficient thought seems to be given to where we get the money from. if we are to maintain the ceilings as they are, the only ways we can pay for increased responsibilities are either through the increasing use of flexibility instruments – and we have reservations about that – or quite simply through cuts in other lines. how can we maintain long-term programmes of support for the poorest parts of the world if we are constantly robbing peter to pay paul? we must try to address that question, or at least get the council to address it. secondly, we must have greater transparency in the budget, and that has to begin with this year's pdb. far too much time is spent playing hide-and-seek, trying to work out what the commission is actually proposing and why it is proposing to do it. it may be understandable to our budget junkies in the committee on budgets, but for us normal human beings most of it is incomprehensible. we cannot have cooperation between parliament and the commission unless we have greater transparency. thirdly, we need to work harder still on implementation to make sure that we are spending the money and not just committing it, and that we are spending it in accordance with the priorities which are set out by parliament during the budgetary procedure. fourthly, we must have greater clarity in financing the cfsp – particularly the difference between administrative and operational expenditure. i would support the commission's proposal on civilian crisis management and oppose the council's clear intention of cutting parliament and the commission out of that. finally, we must take more effective action in the field of small arms and light weapons; and if that is to be achieved, i believe it has to be moved into the first pillar.
mr president, our group can support the guidelines at this stage, but will make a judgement on the overall budget later in the year, depending on the outcome of various policy debates that are of key concern to us. firstly, the eu must be able to welcome new member states in the best possible circumstances, meaning that they must be able to fully benefit from the funds originally earmarked for them at berlin by switching, if necessary, underspends from accession to pre-accession, depending on the pace of individual countries. secondly, another matter related to enlargement is the reform of the common agricultural policy. instead of getting into a heated debate about whether or not to give the new member states direct payments, would we not do better to concentrate our energies on reforming the common agricultural policy by encouraging integrated rural development schemes and sound environmental working practices suitable not only for the existing member states but for our applicant countries too? the third area of concern is the funds available in category 4 (external policy). every year we face new international crises and we want to help solve them. we have a duty to help solve them, but if this has to be done year after year without new money, then of course we will run out of money and will have to make difficult decisions such as cutting off aid to one poor area to help another, or spreading our aid so thinly that it does not have the desired effect anywhere. surely this cannot be our aim. also in this respect, we would like to know to what extent countries which receive aid will be encouraged and enabled to tender for contracts in public works and services themselves, so as to give long-term benefits to their economies.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on development and cooperation. – mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr färm, who is a true friend of development. i look forward to working closely with him during the course of this year. in my contribution i should like to refer to paragraph 26 of the report, which states explicitly to the commission, on behalf of this parliament, that we are not satisfied that development aid is sufficiently focused on poverty eradication and that we need to build on the agreed benchmark system. let me explain that for everyone's benefit. two years ago parliament voted a series of input targets on development aid to ensure that the large amount of spending that takes place through the regional budget lines was actually held to account and to insist that more be focused on social infrastructure, and in particular on basic health and education policies. the extent to which the commission took action in this regard is questionable, particularly as mrs schreyer herself issued a so-called reservation, something that this parliament does not recognise. last year, therefore, when we undertook the same discussions, we had further and more intensive deliberations with both external relations commissioners, mr patten and mr nielson, and agreed that a minimum of 35% of eu external assistance would be focused on social infrastructure, and in particular on basic health and education. i say to the commissioner this morning and to this parliament that we are relying on this being implemented this year within the budget and we will, as we say in this resolution, be looking to build on it next year. i would also like to say in relation to paragraph 33 that it is a matter not just of development aid to the african, caribbean and pacific countries, but also of the funds to asia, latin america, the mediterranean and other regions. all of it should be poverty-focused. the commission has brought forward a development policy statement and it is time, through the budget, that it matched its words with deeds.
mr president, i would like to join those of my colleagues who have already thanked our two rapporteurs, mr färm and mr stenmarck, for their very helpful contributions to our debates this morning. on the commission, firstly, i would like to see us having an ongoing monitoring of the budget to follow up the work of our colleague mr costa neves in last year's budget. i think this is particularly relevant as we have now changed the way in which the work programme of the commission is formulated so as to have more input from our specialised committees. i fully support that particular point. secondly, i would like to join with what our colleagues and in particular mr titley have said so far about foreign affairs expenditure. i guess it is the big spenders from the foreign affairs committee who are seeing all these commitments being made and we in the budgets committee who are querying where the money is coming from. it seems to me that we need a priority-setting, forward-thinking agenda, which is why we are supporting the idea of a study, so that we in the budgets committee should have an idea where the money is coming from. lastly, we would like to know if the reform of the institutions has continued. i would like to ask the commissioner when we can expect a final decision on the early retirement scheme. insofar as the parliament budget is concerned, we support those colleagues who have criticised the administration for trying to suppress the ep-rom study. we need a proper resource management discussion in this parliament, and, particularly, we would like to see a coherent, effective and politically balanced administration. the reason for that comment, mr dell'alba, was precisely because there had been parachutages. there is an imbalance in the administration and i would like to be sure that the administration is seen from the outside as being effective and politically balanced. secondly, insofar as the political groups are concerned, to ensure effective control of the administration, we would like to see them strengthened. lastly, in terms of enlargement, we would like to be sure that in interpretation we have controlled multilingualism; that in translation, we are looking at the aspects of teleworking; and, above all, in the buildings, that we do not take on any commitments to construct new buildings until we know they are absolutely essential.
mr president, i add my congratulations to the rapporteurs on the work that has been done but have one criticism to make on the guidelines in general, which is not necessarily the fault of the rapporteurs, but of the committee and the other committees. guidelines should be just that and they should be concise. they should not form a volume on the scale of great expectations, which is what they invariably turn out to be. there are 41 paragraphs in mr färm's report, 34 paragraphs in mr stenmarck's report and another 38 amendments to vote on later on. that is my gripe. i would like to make a couple of points on each report. the first is on the färm report. the problems highlighted concern categories 4 and 5 and i would like to bring to members' and parliament's attention the fact that these issues were raised with the spanish presidency at the trialogue meeting to try and find some sort of solution. on category 4 the commission has made proposals for a new flexibility instrument for humanitarian aid. i said then, and i say again now, that as far as the council is concerned hell will freeze over before it agrees to a new flexibility instrument. what we did propose – and what may be negotiated with the council – was to use existing humanitarian aid reserves and to find wording, without changing the legislation, to make sure we can use them for the problems we find ourselves with in category 4. regarding category 5: how do we fit everything into the existing ceilings? with great difficulty, unless we make some radical changes. the one thing we have asked the council to do is to try and find an agreement on these two items during the july conciliation procedure. rather than drag them out until the conciliation procedure in november or our second reading in december, it would be beneficial to everyone if we could resolve those two issues, in principle, in july. i now turn to mr stenmarck's report. one part relates to category 5, where the committee on budgets has created a working group to look at administration expenditure in all the institutions. the reason for doing this was to get some political commitment from the council to do exactly the same thing or to do it with us. that has not yet been forthcoming, but we live in hope. for those members who have seen the comments in our working documents, do not be too fearful of them. we are trying to look at things that people would not normally touch, but to at least stimulate some debate. finally, the stenmarck report touches on what mr elles has just mentioned, that is the reference in paragraph 15 to a politically balanced administration in parliament. sometimes we vote on things which on reflection we regret. to have a comment asking for our administration to be politically balanced would not give the right signals to the outside world. the term 'politically neutral' would be far more acceptable. i am one of those people who think that civil servants should be politically neutral. they should not wear political colours. i also believe that people in the civil service should win promotion because of their ability, not because of their political allegiance. a split vote has been asked for on that matter and i would ask all groups to consider carefully how they will vote.
mr president, 2003 will be a key year in terms of preparation for enlargement. therefore, it is disappointing that the report on the other institutions does not really grasp this challenge and, i believe, has missed an opportunity to build on the reform agenda that parliament had embarked upon in the last few years. i have three main issues i wish to touch briefly on. firstly, i am concerned about the lack of perspective and the narrowness of the focus. there is far too much concentration on parliament, and the other institutions do not appear to merit much comment. i understand that the rapporteur did not have an opportunity to visit luxembourg before the vote in the committee on budgets; that might explain the lack of emphasis. i hope this is not seen as a negative message by them. secondly, it is imperative that we iron out some of the contradictions and inconsistencies in the report. with reference to staffing, the report calls for a politically balanced administration. this is a ludicrous statement and i completely disagree with what mr elles said earlier. my understanding of the executive of this and of many other parliaments across the world is that the administration is generally neutral. i have grave concerns about what has been suggested and the implication that the administration is not neutral or that it should not be, and i shudder to think of the consequences of this. are we really going to ask the staff to tick a political affiliation box before they are appointed to a new job? even more fundamentally, this runs in direct contradiction to the emphasis that the committee on budgets has put in this report, on the staff appointment or promotion always being based on ability and merit. that is the principle i wholeheartedly support. therefore, i would urge the rapporteur to distance himself from such negative statements. these sentiments, if carried, will be to the detriment of the standing of parliament. thirdly, with respect to the freelancing of translation and interpreters, i have no problems with improving efficiency and exploring ways to achieve this, but the statement we have here is an ideological standpoint with no evidence to support the assertion that freelance translation will be more cost-effective and of the quality required to meet members' needs. this also runs in direct contradiction to the emphasis in the report on developing the podestà report further with regard to the linguistic regime for enlargement. speaking on behalf of the socialist group, we are interested in working in cooperation with the rapporteur at the next stage when we get to estimates, to strengthen the report and to achieve consensus in this key budget area. however, cooperation is only achievable if it is a two-way process.
mr president, madam commissioner, first may i express my regret at the delays in working on this portfolio last year because the commission declined to accept our advice of splitting the proposals into two separate proposals for gas and electricity. i also regret that the timetable has now been compressed from may to march because of the council's desire to have this proposal before it at barcelona. i hope this will not be a case of 'legislate in haste and repent at leisure'. we strongly support the aims of the directive and the regulation. the present situation is a flawed and inequitable market. french and german utilities are able to buy uk power companies, yet it is impossible to have reciprocal opportunities to buy into edf or acquire whole companies. the german market is almost as difficult to enter, despite so-called full competition. this must change. i recognise that the step-by-step approach is a realistic one: first all non-domestic consumers then domestic later, as a progressive opening, is a more orderly process. i have to regret that one rapporteur has chosen to introduce too much detail in amendments and tried to over-elaborate some of the measures, for example, the question of the detail demanded on energy bills. this is an unnecessary amount of detail. finally, i would like to commend the proposed amendments on establishing a committee of european energy regulators so as to improve cooperation and coordination in implementing the regulation on cross-border trading.
mr president, a french-owned company is able to sell electricity to the british prime minister. i would like to ask the commissioner when we are likely to see a situation when an english-owned company will be able to sell electricity to the french prime minister. until that situation is reached, the idea of an internal market in energy is a political mirage. there has been a lot of comment about the pressure under which this debate is taking place. when the commission's proposals first came out, it was the view of the british government that they could be accepted as they stood. we have managed to bring in hundreds of amendments, which says a lot for the fertile imagination of parliament. we make a bit of a rod for our own backs at times. by trying to bring in issues such as energy efficiency, renewable energy and social issues we complicate the matter further, these are better left for other types of legislation. i should like to make two points. on independent regulation, we regard this as essential if an internal market is to develop, because it provides the predictability and stability which consumers and new entrants need; but it should be for the member state to reflect the different structures of national markets. on the question of third-party access to infrastructure, market entrants need to know that they can access infrastructure on the same terms as those that already exist. and they should be approved by the national regulator, rather than be the subject of one-sided negotiations between a monopoly infrastructure operator and a potential user.
mr president, reading the newspapers one would think that the european council in barcelona is going to settle every detail of this legislation. the press suggests that barcelona will determine whether energy liberalisation takes place at all or not, and yet i do not see mr blair, mr aznar or other prime ministers here. this is an important point: the liberalisation of the energy sector, one of the last components of the single market yet to be subject to single-market disciplines, is a legislative process. we must assert our fundamental role in that legislative process. this legislation will go through to second reading well after the political pyrotechnics of barcelona are long forgotten. it is essential, therefore, that at first reading we establish the principles of the legislation so that at second reading we can indeed push through a proper liberalising energy package. mr chichester referred earlier to the need to get the details right. he is absolutely correct. in that spirit i have two specific questions for the epp-ed group, which has been keen to promote itself as the liberal voice on this issue and yet, i fear, may be voting quite differently tomorrow. firstly, will the epp-ed group support the amendment adopted in committee to make sure that nuclear decommissioning funds cannot be used as a cross-subsidy for electricity operators? if not, it should explain why not, because of the risk of destroying the level playing field. secondly, will it withdraw its own amendments, passed in committee, which insist on negotiated access? if those amendments are retained the package will be severely undermined. i look forward to working with you in the vote tomorrow. this has been an excellent cross-party endeavour and on behalf of the eldr group i wholeheartedly support the result.
mr president, as usual, very sincerely meant congratulations to the three rapporteurs involved in this package. liberalisation of gas and electricity is certainly part of the lisbon process, but this does not mean a free-for-all in the electricity and gas markets. our concern must be for those we represent: customers both commercial and – the majority of us – domestic. we want the lowest prices possible for them in line with choice, and for choice you need information, including labelling about the source of electricity. you need reliability and no discrimination; you need help, particularly at domestic level, for energy efficiency measures; and you need strong emphasis on public service obligations. and i would like to emphasise that research and development should be a public service obligation, because in a free market research is one of the areas that is most at risk. we have amendments on subjects such as renewable energy sources, energy efficiency, and combined heat and power. this is relevant. we must have joined-up thinking, and there must be references in this directive to those areas which may be covered by other directives but which must also be mentioned here. we want joined-up thinking, and we expect confirmation from the commission that those measures, as important as these directives, will be part of the programme in the immediate future. we hope, therefore, for some limited success at barcelona to take forward in a responsible way not a free-for-all, but a controlled competitive market.
mr president, if the house follows my recommendation – which i hope it will – this will achieve an outcome that was agreed by the committee on legal affairs and can be accepted by the commission and the council. the pattern of the voting list is slightly convoluted because the text is complicated and what is proposed deals with drafting points. i have endeavoured to be open about this and i know that the socialist group has had concerns. this morning i spoke with mr berenguer, the shadow rapporteur, who i believe can now confirm that he is content with what i am suggesting, i.e. that we should vote against the second half of amendment no 3 and against amendment no 6. if my suggestion is followed, it should lead to the adoption of this important text in a single reading.
- the next item is the report (a5-0053/2002) by mr georg jarzembowski, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the establishment of rules and procedures concerning the introduction of noise-related operating restrictions at community airports (com (2001) 695 - c5-0667/2001 - 2001/0282 (cod)).
mr president, i should like to thank my colleague, mr jarzembowski, for all his hard work. as mr jarzembowski has explained, it is extremely important that this directive repeals the original hushkit regulation within the timeframe laid down. without doubt, having discussed the hushkit issue on and off since many of us were elected in 1999 and for many years before, it will come as a relief that this debate can reach a conclusion. it is worth reminding some of our colleagues that, when the agreement was reached between the eu and the us at the icao meeting in montreal, all member states were represented and agreed with the proposals that were put forward. the key to those proposals was to take the balanced approach. if we are to have any credibility it would be ludicrous if we in this parliament then reneged on what has been agreed. speaking as someone who has lived close to london heathrow, the busiest international airport in the world, for 30 years, and acknowledging the prosperity and jobs which flow from a successful industry, i find it extremely disappointing that perhaps some members would prefer to score party political points rather than take on board the broader picture of what is required. what would not be acceptable would be for any airport within the eu to be in a position to arbitrarily prevent or stop legitimate carriers from operating into and out of their airport. the decision has to be made at member state level in order to ensure a uniform application of any rules laid down. however, if we are to improve congestion and noise pollution for the future, i suggest that member states and local authorities take responsibility for proper land use planning and think carefully before using the aviation industry as a scapegoat for their failures. finally, having read through the additional amendments, many of which have been retabled predominantly by the committee on the environment, i found it somewhat disappointing that those members found it necessary to go along that path. i hope that they will think seriously about their actions and support the rapporteur when we vote on this report tomorrow. international agreements are the way forward and we should continue to build on the agreement which was reached in montreal.
mr president, i have listened very carefully to the debate so far and i was very interested in what mr stercks and mr lannoye said. to understand properly much of what they have said, one must consider the history. for many years, there was no sign at all of icao taking any action to deal with the problem of growing aircraft noise so we in this parliament took action. we introduced the hushkits regulation which suspended the use of aircraft not retrospectively fitted with noise suppressors – the hushkits starting in april 2002. then suddenly, there was action. the americans threatened legal action and sanctions and icao seemed to wake up. icao proposed new and better noise standards and guidance on sensible operating restrictions around airports. we are now asked though to rescind our regulation and to accept this new directive, which is quite clearly much watered-down, and to expect icao to agree on some new international standards as soon as possible. i will probably go along with this at the vote tomorrow because i agree that something is better than nothing, but we can only expect only some small improvements, and only potential improvement at that. i have to say that i am not convinced that there will be any real improvement at international level unless it is very slow as is the custom with icao. therefore, if the commission does finally get around to sending us a report in five years' time, we might just get a chance to see what this muddled arrangement has produced. i look forward to the report. i look forward to returning to the debate and i hope mr jarzembowski is happy with himself because i am not sure that i am.
the commission is not going to insist on the precedents that have led us today to a discussion which i hope will lead to a positive outcome tomorrow, because we all know what has happened after the refusal of a number of icao member states and we all want to make progress in the fight against noise at airports. we are also aware of the decision taken at one time by the european union concerning certain types of modified aircraft which are in conformity with chapter iii and the circumstances which have led to the present situation. what i want to do, first of all, is to thank very sincerely mr jarzembowski for the excellent work he has done on a very delicate subject and also mr blokland for the series of very positive amendments - from the point of view of the environment - he has brought to this commission proposal. i think it is very important - and we have all said so here - that we reach a solution today which, as mr sterckx said, and i support his view, is not the ideal solution, but which at least represents a step forward and prevents further clashes with third countries. we must understand that we are in a multilateral system; that, thanks to the decision of the european union, things have moved in the icao and the situation has improved and that we now have a proposal which gives us, looking to the future, clear possibilities to improve the situation at airports. i fully understand that we have many amendments and that, unless we have international commitments that bind us all, perhaps you would like to support them. i would be grateful if you could help us tomorrow to understand the scope of this international agreement, so that we can have a proposal that supports what the 15 countries of the union have decided, voted and supported at icao. i therefore want to thank mr jarzembowski and mr blokland and the two committees for their work and their efforts of ambition and at the same time of realism, common sense and support for the decision of the 15 countries in icao and therefore for the international decision. i think that, by removing the requirement of an alternative airport, the definition of an urban airport broadens the field enormously and is positive. we could not reduce the number of movements and bring it down to 30 000 because, among other things, it would be contrary to the limit of the directive on ambient noise, which was recently adopted by this parliament. i think the definition of competent authority has improved and allows for the appropriate margins. i would also like to stress once again that we are not forcing any state in the union to set up a new body, but that the competent authority will be in each case that which the state defines and determines, for which it is necessary for the state concerned to define and determine it, and i would point out that we agree with parliament that it is essential to make it clear that the operational restrictions, according to the noise level, are based on the methodologies described in the third edition of volume 1 of annex xvi to the oici. this document has been agreed at international level and we would not accept any less rigorous document. it is also clear that if the operating restrictions were not based on the sound level but on the time or track, we would have difficulty referring to this annex. as regards the obligation to carry out analyses, the amount of information has been a matter of careful balance: article 5 (1) and (2). on the one hand, we do not want to impose unnecessary burdens on airports and on the member states, but on the other hand we must ensure that a proper basis for decision-making is provided. even if an airport does not propose significant operational restrictions, we believe it will be to its advantage to make the most thorough analysis possible in order to make informed decisions. we have studied very carefully the pace that airports could impose with the withdrawal of aircraft from the fleets concerned, convinced that the reference should be made in terms of movements. i think that a minimum of five years is a very strict requirement and in that sense we could not shorten that period any further. as regards the developing countries, the commission has carried out a detailed study which has concluded that these countries have acted responsibly in reducing their fleets of chapter 2 aircraft and we welcome their action in this regard. we must be fair to these operators and i think the transaction amendment which has been put forward is a solution which we support. we would also like to express the commission's support for a general exemption for genuinely exceptional services, for example, for humanitarian reasons or maintenance work that cannot be done elsewhere. ladies and gentlemen, the fact that decisions are being taken in a coherent way throughout the community is a fundamental advance. this means that we have the opportunity to replace the current patchwork of restrictions with prepared measures using a coherent framework of analysis, so that similar solutions are implemented at european airports with similar problems. i believe that we already have a directive in place in accordance with our international obligations and that it will also help to improve the quality of life of citizens living near airports. in this connection, mr president, i would once again like to thank the two rapporteurs and the honourable members for their work and for the cooperation and understanding of parliament, which has wanted to take part in this, admittedly difficult, exercise of bringing forward legislation in record time, but which will allow us to avoid other kinds of problems in international arenas. thank you very much, mr. president. i hope that tomorrow's vote and your support will enable us to settle this matter once and for all, which has been dragging on for too long.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0365/2001) by mrs izquierdo rojo, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, on women and fundamentalism (2000/2174 (ini)).
mr president, many congratulations to the rapporteur. she has produced a very well-balanced report. it proposes sensible amendments which will not impose unreasonable burdens on firms, but which will improve the directive and reduce the risk of hearing loss resulting from exposure to noise at work. that is what this proposal is all about. too many workers within the european union continue to be at risk of hearing loss due to exposure to noise at work. mrs thorning-schmidt has shown herself to be reasonable and willing to listen to reasonable and reasoned argument and evidence. she did, after all, withdraw many of her initial amendments, tabling new ones which move closer to, or back to, the common position on a number of elements including key action and exposure limit values. but others in this house are straining to carve a new and retrograde path in the social field. for the first time in conciliation in the social field we are seeing moves, particularly on the right and centre groupings of the house, to weaken significantly common positions established in the social affairs council, and even, at times, to exclude significant sectors of activity from the legislation altogether. we have seen this in relation to this proposal on noise and the parallel proposal on vibration. compromise amendment no 23 on the music and entertainment sectors is a response to such a danger. do not get me wrong: it might conceivably be necessary to weaken the common position when new information or evidence previously overlooked comes to light, but in my view that has not been the case in the examples i mention. we have instead seen something tantamount to a panic response to concentrated, manipulative lobbying and adverse media coverage fed by deliberate disinformation and misinformation. these developments are to be deplored. at least two factors seem to be at work. firstly, lobby groups have woken up to the pressure points in the codecision procedure. they know how to apply political pressure, much of it far from evidence-based, on parliament. they think we are the weakest link, and the signal we are sending them is that they are absolutely correct. secondly, too many members of this house delight in issuing press releases seeking to trivialise legislation that is entirely necessary, justified and proportionate. they will not let facts get in the way of seeing their own name in print and it is not hard to see why so many ill-informed articles have appeared concerning this proposal. they have been fed by grossly misleading or totally factually incorrect press releases and briefings from members of this house. i hope that we can all grow up quickly and bring a little more dignity and integrity to our role as co-legislator. my own father finds it difficult to converse with my infant son because of industrially-induced hearing loss. that seems to me a very good reason to promote sensible legislation like this.
mr president, if the rapporteur's original draft report had gone through and had been accepted, it would have decimated industry across the eu. yes, by all means protect workers, but do not throw workers out of work! it was essential that hearing protection should be taken into account, and i congratulate those industries and everybody else who convinced the rapporteur of the need to do so. if this had not been the case, with the exposure limit set at 87, hammering steel at 95-100 decibels, bottling at 98 decibels, and pig-feeding at 100 decibels would have ceased to exist, as would the construction and mining industries. cement works and part of the engineering industry would have been decimated. i recognise that the rapporteur has moved and i welcome that. i welcome the fact that she has moved from daily measuring to weekly measuring in exceptional circumstances, but i would like her to move further to weekly measurements, to go back to the main body of the text as in the common position. i am very pleased that we have got the compromise amendment on music and leisure, whatever the rapporteur says: to have five years' exemption for the music and leisure industry, for the commission to do a report, and then to come back to this house, but to consult with both sides of industry. i hope it goes through and i hope all meps will vote for it. otherwise, we will have the ridiculous prospect of bar staff wearing ear-muffs when people go in to order a pint of beer. i am also glad that we have a chance to debate this because if it had been rejected on a second reading in committee, we would have had no chance to debate this today in the plenary session – no chance to put forward the amendment to exclude music and leisure for five years, and parliament's view would not have been taken into account. so i say to those people who voted against the report in committee: if you had got your way, there is no way we would be standing here today.
mr president, the rapporteur has come a long way in recent weeks in terms of dumping some of her more extreme amendments. however, i take little comfort from this. i hope the rapporteur will not take this personally, as i know how much thought and work she has put into the report. however, in my view, the amendments that remain are neither necessary nor helpful. this is not just my own view. i am delighted to see the extent to which mrs lynne echoed this view so powerfully a few moments ago. in the words of the uk health and safety executive, the body set up to give the uk government the expert and impartial scientific advice so necessary when dealing with such issues, these amendments provide "no benefit for health and safety and their sole effect will be to place unnecessary and unwelcome burdens on industry, particularly on small firms". the executive advises us to oppose most of the socialist amendments. independently, uk conservative meps had come to the identical conclusion. one of these is amendment no 18, which i see the trade unions are supporting, while curiously claiming that many employers support it, too. i have not come across a single employer who supports this. it will be interesting to see whether uk labour meps vote as their government has advised or their trade unions have instructed. i suspect the answer will be no surprise. we shall be supporting the amendment to exempt music from the directive, an amendment originally conceived by my colleague mr pronk. however, that still leaves us with the problems facing industry if other amendments also pass. it is very telling that in the week eu leaders are in barcelona, calling for eu businesses to become more competitive, and on the very day that the uk prime minister, mr blair, is spinning the line that he is so much against red tape, his socialist meps continue to pursue the same old agenda, regardless of the impact on jobs. i urge them, even at this late stage, to vote against these amendments, to vote for jobs, to vote for reform and to vote for barcelona.
mr president, i have a quick question for the commissioner regarding the point of providing proof. if a third country does not provide the information that is required to discover whether they are involved in unfair competitive practices, what would the commission do?
i should like to congratulate commissioner verheugen and his staff for the consistent concern and attention they have shown with regard to this important issue. is the commissioner aware that 93% of romanian people are against inter-country adoption as a solution for abandoned children in romania, as is the romanian government, and that the romanian orthodox church to which 89% of romanian citizens belong, wholly opposes such a practice? is he further aware that the payments made by these spanish families have gone to romanian foster families over a period of time, and thus these children are not officially abandoned according to international conventions, particularly the un convention, which has been ratified by the governments of all the member states, including spain and therefore forms a part of the acquis communautaire?
commission. - the question concerns the impact of the wto dispute settlement mechanism on smes. the wto dispute settlement mechanism is, as you know, an essential element in ensuring the security and predictability of the multilateral trading system. the suspension of trade concessions, sometimes improperly referred to as sanctions, is only the last resort for a state that invokes the dispute settlement mechanism in the event that the offending state has not complied either with the agreements or with the decisions of the wto dispute settlement mechanism. in our view, the main benefit of this system for european companies, including smes, is that it puts strong pressure on them to comply with the rules of the world trade organisation. this acquis is the main benefit for our companies, and therefore also for smes. there are no doubt cases of non-compliance with international agreements. they must, of course, remain exceptional. on this point, we believe that compensation should be preferred to the withdrawal of trade concessions and in the context of the wto, compensation - a voluntary measure agreed by the complaining state - is a better route. moreover, the measure is only temporary. otherwise, the security and predictability of the system would be compromised. let us take two examples: firstly, in the case of hormone-treated beef, we have indeed lost a case at the wto. the commission submitted a proposal for a directive in 2000. we hope, and i say this in this house, that the co-legislators will take a close look at this. we regret that this is not the case at present. in the meantime, we are negotiating with the united states a temporary solution which would basically be to allow them to export more hormone-free meat. this is one case where compensation can be a temporary solution. secondly, as part of the reform of the dispute settlement mechanism, we have just made a proposal to the wto to facilitate the use of compensation as a real alternative to trade retaliation measures, in particular by providing for an arbitration mechanism on the amount of compensation. this would have the immense advantage of allowing parties to a dispute to negotiate on the basis of a figure set by a third party. that, mr rübig, is what i can say about the solution sometimes envisaged, namely the possible introduction of such a supranational punitive system at the wto level. we don't believe in that. it would be a fundamental change in international relations. that is why the international fine does not seem to us to be the right way at this stage, if only because it does not allow us to answer the question of the coercive means to be used to force someone to pay a fine that he wants to avoid. in contrast, we prefer the present system and the compensation system. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is the principle he wants us to pursue.
commission. - so i think the answer to your question, mr rübig, is that in the eventuality we are working on, we are moving from a system of sanctions to a system of compensation which, of course, has the advantage of being much more voluntary. but the idea that companies, which are the victims of a sanction system at a given time, are entitled to compensation in one form or another is not part of either international or community law. we have, for example, attacked at the wto the american system, which was invented a few years ago and decided last year, of giving the benefit of the anti-dumping duties to the companies which would be the victims of the anti-dumping proceeds. we consider this system to be an incentive to fraud and therefore, from our point of view, we are not thinking of compensation schemes. again, sanctions are only there to enforce discipline and if we can move them from sanctions to compensatory, then the voluntary nature and, if i may say, less random and punitive than sanctions, would be achieved.
many of the problems that affect injured parties in trade disputes, especially smes with limited resources, arise from the time it takes for the wto to make its rulings – often many months, if not years. no doubt this will be the case with the new steel dispute with the americans. but rather than granting compensation, which would probably arrive too late to prevent the business concerned from going to the wall, would it not be better for the wto to have a system of temporary injunctions, which would require the suspension of such actions on the basis of prima facie evidence of illegal action until substantive decisions can be made? would the commissioner be in favour of such a system? if so, could he suggest how one might go about implementing it?
commission. – the water framework directive has set the objective to achieve good status for all waters in the european union. it will address all relevant sources of pollution, including industrial activities. as a tool to achieve this objective the directive follows a combined approach of emission controls addressing pollution at the source and water quality standards to be achieved for the particular water body. complementing existing community legislation on major sources of pollution, urban waste water discharges, pollution from agriculture and impacts from large industrial installations, the water framework directive foresees emission controls for particularly hazardous substances and water quality standards at community level. commission proposals for these to parliament and the council have to be submitted by december 2003, also taking into account cost-effectiveness and proportionality. participation of all relevant stakeholders will be one of the key elements of the directive. this will be achieved by mandatory public participation when developing and adopting the necessary river basin management plans, but also by broad participatory processes at eu level, facilitating the implementation of the directive. this process is to ensure input and participation by all interested and involved parties. further, community research efforts under the sixth framework programme will support the implementation of the directive, as will the life financial instrument in the field of innovative and integrated techniques and methods. beyond those measures the treaty provides for clear guidance as regards financing community environmental policy being, as a rule, the responsibility of member states. on state aids the commission does not intend to propose changes.
i am slightly disappointed with the response from the commissioner. while i am fully in support of strong, effective and costed legislation to force improvements in environmental standards governing water quality and other matters, and of the proper policing of such legislation, i would also like to see this stick approach complemented by, as it were, a degree of carrot. in my own region – and particularly in cornwall, which is an objective 1 area – we have very many small and medium enterprises that will find it most difficult to comply with this legislation. i would like to see some financial incentives or rewards introduced to enable them to stop polluting water. if we merely have, if you like, the stick approach and no carrots, then i am afraid we are going to find it more difficult to reach these standards and, at the same time, increase suffering in some of the very small enterprises in the uk county hardest hit by job losses, when we are actually spending considerable sums of money trying to create jobs there.
i hope commissioner fischler understands that members of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy fully endorse what the commissioner has just said about the need for extra resources to ensure that environmental legislation is properly enforced. but it is not just ireland that is causing difficulties. in october last year a reasoned opinion against the construction of the odelouca dam in portugal was issued and yet i understand that construction on the dam started in january this year. what steps has the commission taken to try to persuade the portuguese authorities to stop construction of this dam?
mr president, on a point of order, i wanted to announce, before mrs emilia franziska müller gets started, that the fact that the screen showing the list of names of the speakers has gone wrong may perhaps explain why people might not come to the debate. also, we are only getting the german interpretation in our offices. this is a great help to me because i am doing a course at the goethe institute, but other people may find it a little difficult.
mr president, this is a bad directive. i do not say that on the basis of any emotion or the fact that doctor rath has lobbied me. oddly enough i have not received many e-mails, so my machine has not been stuffed full of e-mails from doctor rath or anybody else. i do not know why that is, but i am very quick with the delete button. i do believe this is a very bad directive, not in its intention but in its method. it is designed, as everybody has said, to bring about a common market in food supplements. it may well bring that about, but in doing so the risk is – and there is a risk – that some products currently on the market in some countries will cease to be available. i, like many british meps, have received many letters from people in the region that i represent. these are not circular letters that they have just signed, they are letters that they have written themselves. the people who write them fear that they will no longer be able to buy over 300 food supplements that their good health depends on. we do not need to go into why this fear has arisen and who stirred it up, if anybody has stirred it up. the fact of the matter is that the commission has created a situation, by bringing forward the directive in this form, that has given people reason to voice and to have such fears. i have no quarrel with the german members or with the rapporteur. she has done a valiant job. they are standing up for the system they have in place. they believe our – british, in this instance – more liberal system may allow unsafe products onto the market. we contend that consumers should be able to exercise as wide a choice as possible and that there is no evidence that products on our market are unsafe. where is the evidence that they are unsafe? why should we have to prove that they are safe when people buy them every day and believe that their health depends on them? i say to commissioner byrne: be careful. this directive tries to reconcile very different national approaches to allowing these products onto the markets and it fails in that attempt at reconciliation. small businesses have been allowed too little time to submit the required safety dossier on their products. we may put that right tomorrow, but why, commissioner byrne, is it that there is no cost impact assessment on small businesses in this directive? when it came forward two years ago there was no cost impact assessment attached. just as important, we need to have the whole process of reviewing what there is on the market much more out in the open. it should not be done by secret committees. meps on the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy will insist that we are much better informed on this, so that we can keep track of what is happening on behalf of our anxious constituents. we hope that we will be able to block any heavy-handed attempt to deprive people of the products they know and continue to need.
mr president, last year in britain alone, 5 000 people died from overdosing on alcohol. they drank themselves to death in one session. yet i do not see a directive before us to require alcohol to be submitted to all sorts of safety tests, or for bottles of guinness or strasbourg wine to carry the strongest possible health warnings. so why on earth are the manufacturers of food supplements being told that they must jump through a series of expensive hoops, which may be so costly as to drive some of them out of business, in order to keep their products on the market? my colleague, frederick ries, says that not all vitamins are safe, but of course you can kill yourself on anything if you eat enough of it. you can stuff yourself with baked beans until you die, but unlike alcohol or most pharmaceutical products, vitamin and food supplements do not have a track record of killing people. on the contrary, i, like mr blokland, have a stack of letters which testify that many do a great deal of good. this directive, therefore, is like taking a sledgehammer to crack a nut! better labelling would have been sufficient to provide such protection as is needed, but perhaps that would not have been enough to satisfy the big drug companies, which are seeking to control a lucrative market. i remember the commissioner telling us not long ago that under his regime we would have less interference of the kind which angers many european citizens for no good reason. however, when it comes to brussels proving that it wants to treat people like an interfering nanny, this directive really does take the biscuit. (applause)
mr president, circulating the streets of strasbourg this morning was a mobile advertising hoarding asking this parliament how it could ignore the wishes of 450 million voters. the obvious answer is 'very easily': it has been doing it for years. and if this parliament accepts the common position on this directive it will prove my point. it is a totally unnecessary intrusion into the freedoms of millions of people. never have i received so many communications from ordinary people asking me to reject it. the commission is entirely wrong to assert that lobby groups are scaremongering. as far as i can see the pressure is coming from ordinary people who are very worried by this proposal. it is those ordinary people whose interests are under threat. accordingly i will be voting for the uen amendment no 7, calling for the rejection of the common position. i urge every member of this house to do likewise.
mr president, it is not every day we have to congratulate a rapporteur for sheer civil courage in standing up to one of the most unscrupulous lobbies of our time. i do not believe that i have seen anything like it before. like most of us, she has been accused of being a stooge of the pharmaceutical industry, of being ignorant and insensitive. we should say to those who made these accusations that we cannot be bought in this house and that we cannot be bullied either. we owe our constituents our judgement, and mine is that for all its flaws and deficiencies, the directive is one that should be commended, with amendments, to those many people who are frightened and nervous, who depend on these food supplements to preserve their health, and some of whom even believe it is a matter of life or death. they fear this directive because they have been told that these products will be banned, that testing will be prohibitive, and that what remains will be swallowed up in a restrictive and prescriptive regime. we owe it to them to make certain that is not the case, and shallow populist rhetoric is not the way to do it. we need to make certain that small producers can come forward and be reassured that it will not be a costly and prohibitive process. time after time, we see that this is ignored in directives. it has been ignored in the ppp directive. the people who have the greatest need of our protection now are the small producers and we should help them. they should be able to register their product for simple and cost-effective evaluation. it should be a positive list which is rapidly expanded, with maximum dosages linked to real needs and not to outmoded daily allowances. people such as mr davies have said: 'well, we have not done this for alcohol'. my god, we have tried! we know what lobby it is that stops us doing this on alcohol, which stops us having the labelling that is necessary. two wrongs do not make a right. we have to look at this directive in terms of the way in which it will be interpreted. the more people make claims about their health, the more we see that this needs a safety evaluation. you cannot have the one without the other. if you make the claims, you must expect to see them tested, but they should be tested fairly, simply and in a cost-effective way to leave a regime of light-touch and user-friendly practices. that is what my country has had and i believe we can keep it. it is also possible to fit that in to the framework of this directive. (applause from the left)
mr president, commissioner, for 60 years we have had two traditions in europe and had no significant health problems. as long as we have acceptance of the upper safe limit, consumer choice should prevail. millions of people in europe have bought vitamins and minerals of their choice. not only have they had no problems, but their health and well-being have benefited. now we are faced not with a health measure but with a single-market measure which threatens to omit 300 items on this list from the 'positive' list of items available. these 300 items are currently legally and safely on sale in the shops of my country and yours, commissioner. they are not oddball items – they are things based on boron, calcium, copper, iron, manganese, potassium, selenium, zinc and so on. if these items fail in 18 short months to get the scientific committee's approval or to get their dossier in, then they will come off the market. that is not a problem for large manufacturers, but it is a very serious problem for the small ones. the cost and time to them may be prohibitive, and if items go off the market, then it is the consumer who will suffer. if they do go off the market they may, as we have heard, go abroad, go offshore or appear on the internet, at some risk to the consumer. what we need, commissioner, is a simplified procedure for the items that have been omitted so that they can come onto the list quickly, and for that we need the 36-month timescale. however, may i say also that emilia müller has suffered one of the worst assaults by people outside this parliament that any member has had to put up with. it is one thing to be e-mailed; it is one thing to be lobbied; it is one thing to be mass-lobbied; but to endure threats of violence, bullying and harassment as she and her family have is something which this parliament will not accept. i say that to whoever is doing it outside: lay off, because we will not allow our fellow member to suffer in that way. she has more integrity in her little finger than those people have in the whole of their bodies and i demand, mr president, that you suggest to the president of this parliament that this matter be referred to the legal affairs committee, with a view to seeing how a member of parliament under that sort of assault can be protected and allowed to do her job properly as a member of this parliament, as a rapporteur and as someone for whom we have great affection and respect. (applause)
mr president, could i first of all thank mrs paulsen for the constructive way in which she has conducted the dialogue between the groups to come up with some compromise amendments? i am pleased that my group has been able to sign all the compromise amendments, with the exception of compromise amendment no 25. we very much support the ban on the use of catering waste in animal feed, not least because the likely cause of the foot and mouth disease outbreak in the united kingdom was the use of pigswill as feed. i am also pleased to see that catering waste from abroad, such as may come from aeroplanes landing in our country, has been upgraded to category 1. however, two problems emerge from this situation. the first is the use of used cooking oil in the united kingdom as animal feed. unfortunately, we will not be able to hide this oil behind the piles of fridges currently found in my own country and i am afraid that much of this oil will find its way into the drains of the country, causing environmental damage and also, i suggest, public health problems as it congeals and solidifies in the sewers of our major cities. we also have a problem in germany, where there are centralised plants for treating catering waste, unlike the on-farm situation in the uk, which was not very satisfactory. many of these installations are brand new and run according to the highest standards with typical german efficiency. we should recognise the situation in germany and austria and allow an extension on the use of some of these brand new plants. that is why i am pleased to support amendment no 10, which was proposed in committee by mr graefe zu baringdorf and calls for the commission to come up with a legislative proposal by june 2002 requiring member states to supply proof that these plants can operate safely. compromise amendment no 25 contradicts this because it calls for a four-year extension on the use of these plants. if, as i have been advised, the authors of the original amendment were to propose an oral amendment stating that this new legislative proposal could come forward in four years' time, then this would avoid such a contradiction. that would be a good way forward and my group would be prepared to support such a move. on the issue of sludge, could i ask the commissioner to clarify the situation? we have many slaughterhouses and meat processing plants that discharge effluent into domestic sewage systems in our major towns. although this process involves some initial filtration, there is no way that one could describe this discharge as sterile: it contains pathogens of all sorts. determining that the sludge from the sewage treatment plants in these large cities had to be incinerated under this directive would place unacceptable costs on slaughterhouses. the european union has already been responsible for the closure of many slaughterhouses and, in fact, in many cases, there would be no space for separate sewage treatment facilities. therefore, could i ask the commissioner to make it quite clear on the record that the primary filtration products of these plants would be covered, but that the sludge from sewage treatment would not have to be incinerated and could be spread on the land as before?
mr president, i congratulate mrs paulsen very warmly on her diligence and skill in bringing through another complex piece of food safety legislation. she always manages to steer between national positions and never loses sight of that corpus of food safety legislation which we are slowly bringing together. i would like to look at the very wide definition of catering waste in the annexes and in amendments 22 to 25. i will leave aside the feeding of carrion birds because i wish to look at a different form of carrion, that is the catering waste represented both by the recycled swill in some countries and by recycled cooking oils in others, including my own. catering swill arouses deep misgivings in my country because of the role it played in the recent foot and mouth epidemic. cooking oil is seen to be a problem after the dioxin scandals of recent years. the rapporteur has brought the two together in a complex series of amendments culminating in no 25, which i will support. i acknowledge her efforts. the uk's problem, as mr goodwill has mentioned, is that we need to have an effective and rewarded system of collecting used catering oils for fuel – not feed – reuse. that will take time. if no other outlet is provided, users will dump it in drains and ponds. they will become sumps of noxious material. one constituent demonstrated to me in the most vivid terms what exactly those consequences will be. therefore, commissioner, we really would like a statement of intent on whether the four-year transition period is achievable. i hope it is; otherwise, good intentions will founder here for sure and the old saying that the best can be the enemy of the good will be vindicated.
mr president, very briefly, this is a very sorry story. it has been a bad story for some time and it is particularly embarrassing if you are belgian, of course, or indeed anybody visiting brussels, because the city of brussels is one of the cities which has been in breach of this directive for the longest period. my questions to the commissioner, which she might like to consider answering either now or later at some time, are, first: does she not agree that the situation in this directive proves the need for a much more thorough impact assessment to accompany legislation such as this? i recall that when the urban waste water directive went through, the impact assessment was very feeble and never really gave any figures as to the likely costs. i am told that in the united kingdom between 1989 and 2005, gbp 26 billion will be spent on upgrading the water system to deal with this directive. that figure was not known at the time when the directive was brought through – not in my country and not in any country; so the question is: can we obtain better, more effective impact assessments? not just cost-impact assessments in terms of a global figure, but impact assessments as to the disadvantage of doing nothing set against the advantage of doing something. secondly, i wonder whether i might ask the commissioner to be very bold, because this really does come down to the question of mrs wallström's debates with the council of ministers. one of our problems is not only that the commission does not produce impact assessments, but that the member states are not honest about their capacity to put in place what they sign up to. what we really need is a system whereby each member state is asked at a council meeting whether or not it can comply with the legislation that its ministers are about to sign up to. a very good place to start would be the new directive on packaging waste. i am sure that every member state wants to send its minister to brussels to agree to environmental directives; that is just our problem. they agree to far too much; they do far too little; and this waste water directive illustrates the problem. i would like to congratulate mrs sornoza on doing this report so well. we had many problems getting the information out of the commission, for the simple reason that the commission did not have the information because the member states had failed to furnish it.
mr president, the commissioner has very helpfully outlined the major challenges that enlargement will bring – challenges such as the problems of kaliningrad, of the beneš decrees, of cyprus; and he has talked a lot about the cost of enlargement. i am, however, very pleased that the president-in-office drew attention to the cost of non-enlargement, which is by far the greater. it may well be true, as the president-in-office said, that for us these countries will have waited a "mere" 15 years to join the union. to them, however, those 15 years will seem more than half as long again as the decade that spain waited to come into our union. i believe it is incumbent upon us to do all we can to speed up the process of enlargement. the first step in that process is in the hands of the presidency this week as the council meets in barcelona. president, you have emphasised that we have a responsibility for reuniting our divided continent. we must welcome those who wish to join us as soon as they are ready. but it is not primarily a budgetary question: there are tremendous economic benefits to be gained, and that is where barcelona comes in; for we need to have the courage to undertake ourselves the difficult economic reforms which we rightly expect of the applicant states. this means, in barcelona, agreeing important economic reforms, finding the way towards reform of the common agricultural policy, and moving towards reforms of our institutions. the heads of state and government must not fudge the opportunity of real economic reform in barcelona. we must open up the markets for gas and electricity, both wholesale and domestic, by 2005 at the latest. we must recommit ourselves to the package of legislative measures in the financial services action plan, unblocking discussions in the council. we must also see progress on public procurement and a european patent. if we are to fulfil our objective of staying within the financial perspectives, enlargement must also mean reform of the common agricultural policy. the over-production and waste which characterise the cap and the worrying consequences for public health of intensive farming methods must be dealt with as we move towards a modern rural development policy, breaking the link with production and creating an environmentally sustainable policy providing aid to our farmers. the prospect of enlargement also requires us to make a success of the convention. our institutions and our decision-making procedures are like a trabant, when what we need is a mercedes. we need to design a constitutional settlement for the union of the 21st century which goes beyond nice, which is based on common rights and values, which addresses the legitimate concerns of our citizens, combining accountability, democracy and efficiency. here, above all, what is called for is a responsible approach from our member states. it is not helpful for financial discipline if the italian finance minister questions the finances of enlargement. it is damaging, when a community of 25 or 27 will need a strong executive in the commission, if the head of government of one of our large member states accuses the commission of a bias against his country, of wanting to smash the culture of one of his industrial producers, and of singling out his country. if we are to insist on a responsible approach from the countries of central and eastern europe, then we need a more responsible approach ourselves. i hope that as we move towards the danish presidency later this year and the historic decisions on enlargement, we will see a responsible, united and purposeful western europe welcoming these new democracies into the democratic fold. (applause)
the council has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels. i think that shows the sensitivity of parliament to the external action of the european union and is also a timely initiative in the light of the events of the last few months and the forthcoming first summit between the european union and the united states after 9/11. the european union and the united states have a partnership which is undoubtedly of historic importance. i use this term not only to explain the longevity of that relationship, but to graphically illustrate its importance and uniqueness. the relationship between the european union and the united states is based on strong and lasting ties between their peoples and their governments, and is based on fundamental values such as respect for human rights, individual liberty, the rule of law, democratic governance and the free market system. experience has amply demonstrated that when the european union and the united states work together, we can make a decisive contribution to creating a positive dynamic for change in the world by fostering the establishment of democratic regimes, opening up greater opportunities for trade and investment, reducing poverty in less fortunate societies or ensuring global environmental protection. beyond our political and economic ties, the events of 11 september remind us every day of the value that both europeans and americans attach to the principles of freedom, democracy and respect for the rights of individuals that shape our relations. i would like to remind you, as an introduction, of the terms in which the spanish presidency expressed its priorities for the current six-month period in relation to transatlantic relations: 'september 11 further reinforced, if possible, the indissolubility of the project of european integration with the transatlantic relationship. it is now time to remind the younger generations of europeans that this prosperous and peaceful europe we know exists, among other reasons, because of the generous and supportive vision that many americans had when, not so long ago, europe existed only as a battlefield and then as a ruined continent. it is now up to us to show that solidarity. in its presidency of the union, spain will be making a decisive contribution to this process. less than 24 hours after the heinous attacks in new york and washington on 11 september, the european union expressed its full solidarity with the united states government and the american people. on 20 june, the european union and the united states pledged to work together in a broad coalition to combat the scourge of terrorism. the joint commitment to lead an unprecedented exercise of cooperation on a global scale aimed at eliminating the terrorist phenomenon, its leaders, networks and organisations is thus reaffirmed. this determination reflects the strength of the transatlantic relationship, the shared values and the determination to face together the challenges created by bigotry and intolerance. together with the united states, we are committed to the safety and well-being of our citizens and will spare no effort to preserve our societies from the terrorist threat. we shall ensure that individual freedom and the rule of law are always scrupulously respected. the presidency attaches the highest priority to advancing cooperation between the european union and the united states in the fight against terrorism, and in particular in view of the eu-us ministerial meeting to be held in madrid on 10 april and the eu-us summit to be held in washington on 2 may. we can welcome the efforts made in this area over the past few months, together with our american partners, but satisfaction with what has been achieved should not blind us to the long way to go. following the jha council of ministers meeting in santiago de compostela on 14 february, there was consensus that the presidency should request the council to give it a mandate to negotiate an extradition convention and a convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters, based on articles 24 and 38 of the treaty on european union. the presidency wishes to submit a draft mandate to the council for a decision on 25 april. we are aware that this mandate must be clear and flexible, and represent an added value in relation to the present situation, and must, of course, respect the limits set by the constitutions of the member states and the procedural guarantees inherent in european values. international affairs are another key part of the exchange of information and views that is part of the transatlantic dialogue. this dialogue on cfsp issues seeks greater coordination of positions on the most relevant such issues - including security and defence policy - and viable solutions to international conflicts. for example, we have been analysing and analysing every day, among other issues and at different levels, the conflicts in afghanistan and the middle east. over the past fifty years the european union and the united states have helped to create and develop the norms and institutions responsible for promoting peace and prosperity in various international forums, be they the united nations, nato, the international monetary fund, the world bank, the world trade organisation; for two generations the euro-north american bond has guaranteed peace on our continent; and at this time, when europe is closer than ever to achieving its longing for reunification, it is our responsibility to maintain and broaden our understanding with the united states, renewing our commitment to jointly meet the demands and challenges of the present. mr president, on the other hand, the european union and the united states share one of the most complex, rich and varied economic and trade relations in the world. trade between the two amounts to almost €1.2 billion a day, representing approximately 37% of world trade in goods and 45% of trade in services. the direct investment of the european union in the united states currently amounts to approximately eur 675 billion. three million jobs in this country depend directly on this investment, and one in every twelve american employees receives his salary from a european company. it is necessary to emphasize emphatically that the vast majority of trade and investment flows openly and without impediments, and that when this does not happen we prefer consultation and dialogue as the appropriate means of resolving our differences, in a constant - and sometimes not easy - effort to find practical, quick and balanced solutions. the decision taken at the wto ministerial meeting in doha last november to start negotiations for a new multilateral round of trade is a clear example of the beneficial effects of euro-north american coordination which can overcome different perceptions of objectives and interests in the interests of a common higher interest. but at the same time, it should not be surprising that the complexity of economic and trade relations gives rise to divergences and disputes which, despite their relative impact in relation to the total volume of trade, are sometimes given considerable importance. these disputes play, at certain times, a leading role and strongly permeate the debates of political decision-makers and also of the media. on the contrary, few remember our capacity for compromise and settlement of past controversies. let me mention the banana dispute, for example, which has been with us for a long time, until its final resolution recently. for this reason, one of our objectives is to provide a new positive approach, capable of enhancing and developing bilateral trade. this positive dimension is all too often obscured by the prominence given to disputes. the presidency stresses the need to exploit the untapped potential of trade relations to transcend any crisis and confrontation dynamics and turn them into a dynamic of cooperation. i am convinced that this will enable us to deal with other open litigation, such as that of foreign sales corporations or genetically modified organisms or the more recent steel trades. at this point i should like to make a specific reference to the emergence of this new discrepancy with the united states, as a result of the decision announced on 5 may to impose safeguard measures against imports of certain steel products. the imposition of tariffs of up to 30%, depending on the case, reflects a worrying us tendency towards unilateral protectionist options that frustrate the efforts of the european union and other producing countries in paris, under the auspices of the oecd. it is a very unfortunate precedent at this very important time for the fate of the new round of multilateral trade. all the member states and the council support the measures taken by the commission and, in particular, the policy being pursued by commissioner lamy. let me assure you of the importance which the presidency attaches to this matter, the future development of which will be kept in close contact with the commission and the member states, with the determination to take appropriate measures at all the necessary levels to safeguard the interests of the union. mr president, it is understandable that europeans and north americans sometimes express different sensitivities on major international issues, but this should not deter us from trying to act together, and i will give an example which seems clear to me: the monterrey conference. we have been able to reach a consensus between the european union and the united states, and all the countries of the world have joined in. i think it is a good precedent and an incentive for johannesburg. this is not the case in the environmental field, where the european union has just taken an important step in ratifying the kyoto protocol at the last council of environment ministers, just a few days ago, while the united states, with the adoption of the recent programme announced by president bush, seems to be moving further away from that objective. but even in this case, where the positions seem so far apart, the presidency considers it desirable to build bridges and in the coming weeks we will hold a high-level meeting within the working group set up at the transatlantic summit in gothenburg. mr president, i'm finished. the possibilities for each side to influence positively and beneficially the other's actions are by no means negligible and the european union, ever more united and ever more european, must fully assume its responsibility as a friend and ally of the united states. the presidency will therefore do all it can to ensure that relations with the united states are fully developed and will spare no effort, together with the member states and the commission, to ensure that the summit scheduled for 2 may in washington meets the expectations that both sides have placed on it. in this context, the contributions which will be made today at this part-session of the european parliament will be extremely important and i thank you in advance.
commission mr president, the presidency of the council has just begun with general considerations on the state of transatlantic relations, talking about our trade relations and finally the steel problem. i shall do so in reverse order, not out of a sense of contradiction - on the contrary, i think we work very well with the presidency - but because the commission is naturally more dependent on current events. so let's start with steel. as you all know, we have seen in the past week the latest outburst of steel protectionism, which is a chronic disease of american trade policy and is in total contradiction to the bush administration's rhetoric in favour of free trade. once again, the united states has reinvented what we might call intermittent free trade: it works one day, it doesn't work the next. well, march 6th was a no-go. the measures announced by president bush on steel are clearly political in nature. they have no legal or economic basis and we europeans who paid the price of costly social and financial restructuring in the 1980s and 1990s know that this is necessary to adapt and become competitive. the united states has chosen the opposite approach: instead of dealing with the fundamental problems of its steel industry - and they are considerable - it is shifting the apparent burden of these problems to the outside world. we know perfectly well that it is not acceptable to blame all the difficulties of american steel companies on imports, even though there are still excess capacity worldwide. in fact, these decisions are designed to shift the burden of adjustment of the american steel industry onto the rest of the world, and on us in particular. we are probably the main victim of these measures, given our export flows and the quality of what we export to the united states. that's a first effect, direct. we are also faced with a second indirect effect, probably of a much greater magnitude, since these measures risk diverting from the european market a large proportion of steel products which will no longer have access to the american market. the union will take all the measures at its disposal to protect both its industries and its jobs. unlike the united states, we will simply remain within the strict framework of the international commitments we have made. we will of course take the matter to the wto to obtain a condemnation of the us measures. we will not do this all alone: this is not a conflict between the european union and the united states; the commission has not yet taken a decision on the application of the measures. this decision is in flagrant breach of the provisions of the wto safeguard clause, which provide that such measures may only be implemented in the event of a significant and sudden increase in imports, which is not the case. we will also ask the americans for compensatory measures corresponding to the level of european exports affected by the american measures and, depending on their reaction, we will see whether a suspension of our tariff concessions to the united states is desirable or possible. finally, and this is the most important, we must protect our own market against the risk of diversion of steel products, which, as i said, will no longer be able to enter the united states. we have started all the procedures for this purpose and we will take measures which correspond to the risks posed by this influx of imports. we have already for some weeks now been implementing a system of prior surveillance of imports. so we're ready to go. we had taken the necessary precautions. we will take these measures in full compliance with wto rules. we will not close our market to steel imports. we simply want to make sure that europe does not become a dumping ground for all steel products originally destined for the united states and we will ensure that our own measures come into force at the very moment when the american closure measures take effect. why stick to the rules when the americans have clearly decided, in this case, to break free of them? because we consider that the world market is not a wild west where everyone can do as he pleases. there are rules, disciplines, which, in this case as in others, guarantee the functioning of the multilateral system and we consider, like the council and your assembly, that it is in the union's medium- and long-term interest to ensure the functioning of a disciplined multilateral system. we have a restructured, productive, strong and competitive european steel industry. we therefore have an interest in the application of clear rules of the game. in short, the union is hit by unfair and unfounded measures. the commission, in close cooperation with all the stakeholders - council, parliament, industry and metalworking trade unions - has decided to react vigorously using all the means at its disposal. we will protect our companies and jobs from potentially devastating spillovers and we will continue to hammer home our argument that the us decision is bad for the us economy, bad for our steel industry and bad for world trade. the recent events should not make us lose sight of the somewhat broader context of our business relations. i share the view of the president-in-office that these are generally of good quality and represent the largest volume of bilateral trade and investment in world trade. these trade conflicts, which sometimes make headlines, concern only a limited part of our trade. we also have a more positive agenda with the united states, both multilaterally and bilaterally. i'll just move on to the multilateral. i think it was clearly demonstrated in doha, as mr piqué has just said, that when the united states and europe work hand in hand on a number of issues, if not all, they lead to promising multilateral decisions such as the launching of the doha round. let us dwell more on the bilateral side. we do indeed still have bilateral priorities in the transatlantic economic partnership and we continue to support the idea that we must work together on positive measures in bilateral trade. this is not always easy. we must be firm and think in the medium and long term in the areas of mutual recognition, regulatory cooperation, food safety and data protection. in many cases we have had results, although not all of these topics are always the focus of the daily press. we need to think about other initiatives that perhaps have a little more political resonance or visibility, in order to renew a transatlantic agenda that some of you now consider too ritualistic, or even sometimes downright breathless. we are open to reflection. we have our own ideas. we are working, for example, on the negotiation of a possible transatlantic agreement in the field of air transport - we are looking forward to the court's ruling - on cooperation in the field of intellectual property and on a little more regulatory harmonization in the areas of accounting, finance and insurance. in addition, in view of the forthcoming transatlantic summit, we have begun to consider the advisability of initiatives in this field. i am personally in favour of such initiatives. but we will have to deal with conflicts other than those that oppose us over steel, and there are a number of them. the question of hormone-treated beef is not completely resolved, although promising negotiations are under way. the question of clementines is still unresolved, as is the question of us export taxes and the obviously considerable case of foreign sales corporations. our policy in these matters remains clear: international disciplines must be respected. this is true for us as well as for the americans, and in the case of export tax subsidies, the united states has already committed itself to the rules. we will use whatever means are at our disposal to ensure that this is the case. i would like to conclude with the general state of transatlantic relations, which the presidency of the council has already dealt with in detail. i think 9/11 did raise some hopes that us diplomacy and international attitude would be somewhat more multilateral. i think it is clear that this is not the case and that the few unilateral tendencies that existed before 11 september - the international criminal agreement, the abm treaty, kyoto - have not disappeared, on the contrary. the commission considers that if recent events call for change, it is probably more than ever in the need for strong multilateral institutions and greater application of international law. this is the message we are trying to convey to our american counterparts at our meetings. it is necessary to address together the challenges, excesses, opportunities and risks of globalisation and to develop together cooperation in an increasingly interdependent world. the next deadline for this is the transatlantic summit on 2 may. we are sparing no effort to try to use this occasion to relaunch a number of collaborations between the united states and europe in the field of the fight against drugs, judicial cooperation and, why not, including in the preparation of the johannesburg summit, at which i believe the world will need the united states and europe.
mr president, i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council and the commissioner for their comments this morning. i believe that we have reached one of those critical stages in the development of the transatlantic relationship in its global context. firstly, looking at the overall relationship, it is quite clear – as our two speakers have said – that since 11 september 2001 we have seen a significant change in the way in which the americans view their place in the world. we see an america under attack – one which we recognised on 12 september in this house, but which perhaps we now fail to recognise six months on. secondly, we are in danger of seeing an unravelling of the security side of our relationship, where a political consensus underlying nato cannot now be taken for granted for out-of-area responsibilities. we see the military gap widening and perhaps difficulties also in expanding nato operations. thirdly, the strong impetus that came with the 1995 new transatlantic agenda now appears to be under threat because of a lack of political vision and, perhaps, frustration at the lack of results among many of the parties involved in the dialogues. on the specific case of steel, i can only welcome the comments made by the commissioner in deploring the us decision. the commission should take action to seek compensation, and look for legal means of taking retaliatory action. i would also add that it would be very unhelpful, as mr aldonas at the department of commerce in the united states has suggested, for the us to link this steel dispute to the wider issue of problems in the global economy. that surely is not the way to go. fourthly, i come to what we might be able to do in the present context. it is indeed tempting to think of taking retaliatory action through tariffs. however, as the times stated on 7 march, in bush's folly, tariff walls would amount to an own goal. it would simply be a futile effort by the americans to preserve unviable jobs in steel. surely, therefore, we should be looking for a broader transatlantic partnership in which to define europe's role and america's role and build on our common interests together. as regards nato, that means ensuring that we can move nato on to more global responsibilities. furthermore, your meeting on 2 may at the eu/us summit to update the new transatlantic agenda to meet new challenges must ensure that the political communities are properly involved. in conclusion, it is up to you to provide leadership. we must be tough and take the necessary action to protect our interests in this steel dispute, but also think of the broader context and form a vision of how the transatlantic partnership should look in the 21st century. (applause)
mr president, the announcement last week was bad enough. the comments from some us officials, including mr aldonas, that somehow protectionism is warranted to correct wider macroeconomic factors is potentially even worse. it displays a dangerous and economically illiterate philosophy that needs to be strongly rebuffed. the question is: how do we rebuff it? firstly, we need to ensure that we consolidate our friendships with those allies with whom we wish to act together against american unilateralism. and if there is one tactical concern my group has about brandishing safeguard measures against those steel exports that might be diverted from the us to europe, it is that it might actually alienate countries such as russia, india and brazil, with whom we have to act together in the wto and the oecd to take on this american move. therefore, we would ask the commission and, of course, the council, as a matter of urgency to try and negotiate bilateral voluntary export restraint agreements with these countries, so as to avoid the diversion from steel going to america to europe happening in the first place. the obvious danger if we do not achieve this is that we end up having spats with precisely the people we should be teaming up with against this american behaviour. the second point is this: let us not be squeamish; this decision was taken for domestic political reasons. it will only be reversed or limited if domestic political pressures dictate that should be the case. in order to do that, we need to brandish big sticks which are felt on the domestic us political scene. and conveniently enough, if inelegantly, we do have such a big stick, in the form of the measures we can take within the context of the foreign sales cooperation dispute. of course, we do not wish to mix these things formally; but let us not be naive. the fsc dispute provides us with the best means by which to inflict the domestic pressure which is absolutely necessary in order to get some change in the american attitude and to reassert the international rule of law, rather than the rule of the law of george bush's economic jungle. (applause)
- the debate is adjourned. it will resume at 3 p.m. with a statement from commissioner solbes.
mr president, i should like to make a correction to what mrs banotti has just said because we will be dealing with spamming and unsolicited commercial e-mails at a later plenary. what we are being targeted with is not spam. spam is untargeted. we are quite clearly being targeted in this particular case.
- we will leave it to the quaestors to assess the actions to be taken.
- the agenda calls for a vote. the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment to men and women in matters of employment and occupation.
commission. – mr president, the commission's position on these amendments is as follows. the commission can accept all the compromise amendments to the common position put forward during the second reading, namely amendments nos 1, 2 and 3. on the other hand, the commission cannot accept the other amendments that diverge from the common position, which was largely supported.
- i have the pleasure of informing the house that a delegation from the standing committee on agriculture and forestry of the canadian senate has arrived in the official gallery. she's being escorted by senator leonard gustaffson. this delegation took part in discussions on agriculture in brussels and strasbourg. we welcome him. we appreciate the very close ties that we have with our canadian partners.
- we're going to take the vote now. report (a5-0046/2002) by mrs cecilia malmström, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the legislative and work programme of the european commission (amendment of rule 57 of parliament's rules of procedure) (2001/2110 (reg)) before the vote
mr. corbett, i understand you're familiar with the rules.
mr president, i think mr wuermeling is correct.
- as is customary and practice, we vote on the draft decision but i also agree with mr wuermeling and mr corbett. i shall ask the committee on the rules of procedure to look into this matter. just one correction: since this is now a draft decision, it no longer requires a qualified majority. we shall now vote by a simple majority.
i refer to the vote on the amendment by mr elles. it was not carried because it needed a qualified majority.
- it is in the draft decision; it is not therefore an amendment to the rules of procedure and does not therefore require a qualified majority. we shall, however, leave it to your committee to examine this point. you can tell me in six months if i was right or wrong. (parliament adopted the decision)
- i can't answer that question here and now. the president and the group chairmen began a debate on how to make the plenary sessions more interesting. this is the right place to ask that question. moreover, as all members know, mr corbett has produced an excellent report on how we could improve the working methods of our house. this question will also be discussed in this report. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
mr president, i rise on a point of order as the chairman of the committee which is bringing this report to parliament, and particularly on behalf of the rapporteur. members of this parliament will be aware of the very high degree of public interest in this issue and of the lobbying to which we have all been subjected. i am not against that lobbying – a lively parliament should welcome lobbying from all sides. (applause)but the situation regarding this particular directive is unusual and serious. firstly, the rapporteur, mrs müller, who has done her job very gallantly, has been subjected to unacceptable harassment and threats. lies have been disseminated as to her motivation. secondly, the people in question, led by dr rath from germany, have practised deception on parliament. they gained entry as a news team to the committee meeting when her report was adopted, and used the material to make a video that caricatures the views of the committee on the environment and its rapporteur. mr president, i ask you to consider what can be done about this. i would like to ask the presidency to find a means of dealing with such excessive, fraudulent and oppressive approaches. (loud applause)it is true that in this instance they have done more harm than good, as mrs mckenna has said; and it has to be said that there is a perfectly good case against this directive; but we need to put in place a procedure, as a parliament, to guard ourselves in the future. in some national parliaments in this instance the person concerned would certainly be called before the parliament, reprimanded and asked to apologise, and we might consider putting that in place. (applause)but given the fact that there are now electronic means to overwhelm us with lobbying, we need to do something. i ask the president of parliament to consider this very urgently. (applause)
- i would like to make it absolutely clear that mrs jackson was speaking (rightly) as chair of the committee and in defence of the rapporteur of her committee. i do not wish to have a full debate on this matter. mrs banotti has already said that the quaestors will look into this matter. i do not think it is necessary to discuss this further at this stage. if anyone has any objections to this, please refer them to mrs banotti, who will ensure that the quaestors take them into account when they consider this matter.
- you know the rules. if 12 members vote against an oral amendment, it cannot be tabled. i did. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
mr president, i would like to put forward an oral amendment to rectify an unfortunate typing error made initially. this will insert the word "not", so that the last phrase reads as follows: "independent from other activities not relating to the transmission system". i am sure the rapporteur understands this, but i do apologise to the house for the original typing error.
- i admire your efforts to rationalize the work of this house, although nothing in the rules says we have to be rational. before the vote on amendment no 136
- parliament's services have informed me that this change has already been detected and that the technical correction has already been made. the rapporteur recommends that you reject amendment no 136 and accept amendment no 162, but the house is obviously doing what it wants. before the vote on amendment no 149
- if there are no objections, we shall vote on the text as amended orally by mr jarzembowski. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
- you're right, i know. the dutch text must be aligned with the other texts. parliament's services have informed me that they are already aware of the matter and that the technical correction has been made. before the vote on amendment no 29
- that's very kind of you. you listened to your mother again.
mr president, i apologise for taking up your time. you are aware, as i am, of a campaign waged by the daily record newspaper in scotland, in the course of which some extremely unfair things were said about our colleague mrs thorning-schmidt, whose valuable report we adopted today – things which i deplore. it is the case, however, that this valuable report, which protects working people against noise in the workplace could have had unintended side effects on the music industry. i am very glad that amendments nos 23 and 25 were corrected, thereby saving the world of pipe bands amongst others. i think i am the only piper in this house, so i am particularly pleased about that! but i do want to say to mrs thorning-schmidt that her scottish colleagues regret the way she was unfairly pilloried in our press.
- we look forward to hearing the bagpipes played at the next robert burns dinner.
in writing. - i fully support this report drawn up by my socialist colleague with a view to strengthening the council's common position on the exposure of workers to noise. no worker should be exposed to noise levels which prevent conversation. we only have one pair of ears, and it's vital to protect them. moreover, it is better that measures to combat noise pollution and noise damage should be preventive rather than curative and that the emphasis in this area should be on collective rather than individual responsibility. in order for this directive to be as effective as possible, we should work with existing tools and avoid duplication. the european agency for safety and health at work should therefore be used to the maximum of its capacity. this will facilitate and promote the exchange of good practice with regard to acceptable noise levels. furthermore, it is logical that this directive should be broad in scope to include employers and selfemployed, as these constitute a significant proportion of the current workforce.
in writing. - i welcome the initiative taken to shake up the european energy markets. it will make these markets more open and accessible to all. while the final directive contains many of the sensible amendments proposed by the industry committee, european energy consumers will be in a much more favourable situation than they are at present. invoices will contain more essential information and consumers will be better informed about exactly what they are paying for. the proposal to introduce non-discriminatory access to networks for competing operators is even more important for european consumers. the fundamentals of economics tell us that increased competition for networks should ultimately translate into lower prices: good news for some consumers who, in the current system, end up paying far too much. it is also good news for small energy companies, which are sometimes discouraged from further expansion due to the high costs of entering a market. gas and electricity are basic services, not luxury goods, and this directive will win the case of most european consumers and some energy producers.
in writing. - i fully support the report on the commission communication, which aims to improve the exchange of information between the eu and its citizens. anti-european campaigns in some countries such as ireland have clearly demonstrated the need for a positive communication strategy. moreover, the practical policy recommendations suggested in this report show that the eu really intends to get closer to european citizens and to counter the conventional notion that it is run by an elitist bureaucracy. focusing on issues that affect people's daily lives, such as food security, the euro, justice and home affairs, will ensure that citizens are fully involved in the debate on europe. moreover, the priority given to decentralisation in this communication is justified: regions are very different from one end of europe to the other and local authorities are aware of regional needs and local issues. they are clearly best placed to disseminate information about the eu. it is also vital to involve regional television stations. finally, the suggestion to use the internet more in the information campaign will ensure that it is not only economical but also environmentally friendly. as the european parliament is the european institution closest to the european citizens, it would make sense to make it the pivotal institution around which this information campaign will revolve.
mr president, during the vote one of my dutch colleagues remarked that part of the report did not make sense in dutch. i had difficulty in finding any of it that made sense in english! this report has taken political correctness to a whole new level. it is counter-productive to approach such an important issue as religious fundamentalism with a tirade of political fundamentalism of the kind that this report is largely made up of. i am particularly critical of paragraph 29, even as amended, which considers the separation of church and state to be the most acceptable form of government. i do not have to remind you, mr president, that in my country, if not in yours, the head of state is also the head of the established church. that is a system that works very well indeed. i hope parliament is not calling on the queen to abdicate, so that maybe we can elect president kinnock in her place!
in writing. - i abstained on the amendments and voted against the final report because i am very concerned about the lack of balance in the report. this report implicitly assumes the superiority of western cultural values over women's rights in islam. i wonder about the wisdom of the parliament which produced this report and in doing so made a judgment on other cultures and their values. i think that this report looks at things from the outside, from a very narrow and limited experience of the islamic way of life. i am deeply committed to equal opportunities for all women in the world, but i believe it is essential that women in different parts of the world can have their own conception of freedom that takes into account their different cultures and values.
- explanations of vote are closed. (the sitting was suspended at 1.58 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
- the agenda calls for the continuation of the debate on the council and commission statements on the state and prospects of transatlantic relations, including the import tax on steel.
mr president, the greens have spent more than a decade endeavouring to expose the myths at the heart of the free-trade theory. now we know for sure, as we have always suspected, that the rhetoric of the us and its major corporations was a sham. far from being at the centre of a development agenda to help poorer nations out of poverty, the us tariff barriers reveal how that country uses trade rules to gain access to other people's markets, while protecting its own industrial interests at home. the us view is clearly that free trade is a one-way street for a superpower: good for us exporters, but not so good for us domestic industry. contrast that with the unequivocal lectures given by the us to developing countries at the wto meeting in doha, to the effect that, by liberalising their markets, they will automatically reap the benefits of globalisation. poverty eradication and sustainable development are somehow automatically meant to follow, yet poorer countries have known for a long time that this is often far from the case. perhaps the one good thing that could come out of president bush's unilateral introduction of tariffs on steel imports would be a much-needed serious debate about the flaws and weaknesses inherent in the free-trade model, because there is growing opposition to the global inequality inherent in its diktat that every country must put international competitiveness above all other domestic concerns. the reaction against this ranges from indian farmers calling for an increase in tariffs to protect themselves from cheap food imports, through to steel workers, including fully restructured uk steel workers, who find that they will now still be unable to compete with romanian steel exports. however, there are some retaliatory actions that the eu should consider, which will send the right signal to the us. i would like the council and commission's views on them. for example, since the us has refused to implement the kyoto protocol because of the perceived impact this would have on us business, the eu should levy an energy tax on all us-manufactured goods. or we might consider the issue of a complete ban on all imports of us-produced gm foods, since us pressure exerted under free-trade rules has prevented eu ministers from reflecting popular opinion by banning such foods from markets here. the time is long overdue for the eu to call mr bush's bluff.
mr president, behaviour which is apparently irrational usually has an explanation. president bush's decision to impose steel tariffs is irrational. the tariffs are a flagrant breach of world trade rules. there has been no sudden calamitous increase in imports. us steel has been uncompetitive and in deep trouble over a long period; it has not become so suddenly. tariffs will not solve the us steel problem, but they will badly harm america's allies. they will destroy american jobs in other sectors and they will damage world trade relations. knowing all this, why would president bush take this irrational decision? we know why. he wants to buy votes in steel-producing areas come november and is so desperate to do so that he will gladly sacrifice his international credibility – and we in the eu and others elsewhere in the world are meant to pay the price! talk about collateral damage! of course, this cannot be tolerated. we do not subsidise steel, we do not dump steel. we went through terrible times to make our steel competitive. our market is open. there is no possible justification for this deliberate attack on the livelihood of european steel workers. remember, this is the president who thinks he can provide world leadership. global leader in military power he may be, but he is a global dunce in citizenship and respect for others. commission: take him on. you have all of us behind you and you have the tools to ensure that you can act both legally and effectively. go for it!
mr president, i am dismayed at the united states' belligerency towards the free market in steel, particularly since free trade has been the hallmark of the usa since the 18th century. i am appalled at the concomitant weakening of the all-important transatlantic alliance that this creates: an alliance that is the world's greatest force for peace today and one that gives unrivalled opportunities for prosperity to the world's 1 billion poorest people. but since the european union and the usa share essential values, i cannot believe that the us seriously intends to follow this destructive course of action. i therefore see this as a purely political manoeuvre – president bush placating domestic and special-interest lobbies. we must be tough and then we will succeed. the cause is good. the arguments are correct. i firmly support the commission and the council of ministers and i believe that with eu backing and pressure, the world trade organization will act correctly and throw out the us position, and that president bush will welcome this.
mr president, i was minister for steel in the united kingdom between 1987 and 1989 and was responsible for an industry which was over-manned, uncompetitive, riddled with old-fashioned practices and heading for disaster. when it was privatised, it experienced a traumatic time with the loss of plants and jobs, and morale was at rock bottom. however, it had to be endured to secure any future at all. we do not want that to happen again because an outside agency such as the united states has seemingly broken wto rules, especially since the us itself should restructure old plants, rationalise employment and pension practices so that its own industry is improved, but not at the expense of european industry. i find it disturbing, to say the least, that romania is one of the countries exempted by the united states of america. romania is home to sidex, closely connected to ispat, the firm controlled by lakshmi mittal, which gave tony blair and the labour party gbp 125 000 for their general election campaign and then lobbied president bush harder than anyone else to impose 30% tariffs that would protect his united states and romanian steel interests at a potentially deadly cost to british plants and jobs. just whose side is tony's crony on? it does not appear to be british and european workers, since mittal will make an estimated usd 1 billion from this deal. that gbp 125 000 gift was a real steal – a cheap and cynical investment that will literally pay dividends. therefore, the labour government is not our answer – the commission is. we must support the commissioner in his determined attempts to protest and, if necessary, retaliate – but carefully. we need the oecd talks to continue and to produce success. how about some targeted action against products from pennsylvania, ohio and west virginia?
mr president, this week in barcelona the european council will gather in order to seek to build upon the lisbon process. at that meeting, we will be pressing for more action to be taken in relation to deregulation, for more liberalisation, ensuring that we learn the lessons of employment flexibility. there are those of us who have felt ever since we have arrived in the european parliament that there is a lot of rhetoric in this place about free trade, but that there is also a great deal of protectionism with member states here in europe. the entire agenda in europe of taking forward a uniform competition policy and bearing down on state aid is geared towards ensuring that we have free trade. in those circumstances, those of us who count ourselves as the best friends of the united states are hugely disappointed by the action that the us president has taken. it is not putting it too strongly to say that, in a sense, we feel betrayed by it. i do not link this to our support for the united states following the events of 11 september. the events of 11 september were so horrific that they should not be linked with any sort of agreement in any other policy area. but for those of us who have been pointing to the united states as an example of a deregulated and liberalised economy, it has been a shattering blow to see the way in which president bush, faced with the difficulties that his steel industry is encountering, has gone for protectionism. what is even worse is to read in the financial times today a justification of this action from robert zoellick, the us trade representative. i feel sorry for mr zoellick, whom again we would regard as a friend of british conservatives, because i must say that article destroys any credibility that he had in terms of discussion of trade issues. the united states representatives watching this debate need to know that, while we may have heard from the usual suspects in terms of anti-americanism, those of us who are friends of the united states feel very badly let down indeed.
mr president, we can all stand here today and condemn the actions of the us government in imposing these unjust, illegal and completely unfair tariffs on steel products imported into the usa. we all know that the tariffs have simply been put there for short-term political advantage and we regret it for that alone. but we must also stand united behind some clear, firm and serious action. we must show we mean business. the commission must now act swiftly within the wto to overturn these tariffs. we must see safeguarding measures brought in to prevent a flood of cheap imports from damaging our own industry. those measures must be implemented in respect of all non-eu sources of steel in the form of quotas based on 1998 import levels if we are to do a proper job in protecting our own industry. i do not recommend fighting fire with fire in this circumstance. instead, we must dump a large cold bucket of logic, common sense and international law onto the head of the us government and bring it to its senses.
the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and i am not sure that the council will be able to take a decision on it. as the foreign minister, who was the president-in-office of the council, said at the presentation, the trade policy is common and the european commission has full autonomy and authority to take the relevant decisions. and in the light of the above, i believe that the commission, on behalf of the european union, has taken a firm position on the steel problem, a position which has been publicly expressed and unanimously adopted by the union's council of ministers last monday. i therefore believe that we must trust the commission's ability to deal with this matter, as i have said, to make the appropriate complaints, to also seek the appropriate compensation and to use retaliatory measures, in full respect of the rules of the world trade organisation. the president-in-office of the council believes that our strength lies in asking the united states to respect the rules that all the founding fathers of the world trade organization have laid down for us. that is why it is very important that the european union sets an example that we are the first to respect not only the procedures but also the rules of the world trade organisation. the case of clementines, which is another pending trade issue with the united states, has also been mentioned. the presidency can only say that it is up to the member state concerned - in this case spain - to submit its complaint to the committee 133 and that the commission will act in accordance with the committee's decision. it seems that the measures taken are disproportionate to the alleged threat of the so-called mediterranean fly, which has been the argument used by the united states to ban imports of clementines. these elements will be assessed by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, which deals with these issues, and the commission will be given a mandate to act accordingly. with regard to other considerations expressed here about the regrettable tendency of the united states to unilateralism in many of its actions, not only in these trade policy issues but also in other general policy issues, the presidency cannot but agree with many of the expressions made here and therefore i believe that the next summit between the european union and the united states, which will take place on 2 may in washington, will be a good opportunity for the presidency of the council and the presidency of the commission to remind the president of the united states that the spirit of the transatlantic declaration, which, as has been recalled, was signed in 1995, obliges the parties to have a spirit of cooperation, to try to seek common ground and not to seek good ground that will separate us and, in the tradition of an intense relationship between the united states and europe, it is in the interests of both parties, and of the united states and europe, to look for the points of contact and not the points of departure. and, of course, positions which separate the united states not only from the european union but also from the mainstream of the international scene do not help to find common ground. i think this debate has been very enriching, we have incorporated many of the views we have heard here into the acquis with which we are going to reflect in preparing the next transatlantic summit and i want to thank you, mr president, and this parliament, for all the ideas that have been expressed in this debate.
the commission is aware of the fact that the united states is a major player in the world economy, and that the united states is a major player in the world economy. today's debate has been devoted to the conflicts between the united states and the european union, especially the steel conflict, although there has also been some reference to other issues. the big problem we have before us is what to do. as some of you say, the best formula is to link the steel conflict with other trade problems with the union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we think that is not a good solution and that is not the best solution for the union's long-term interests. some of you have raised the possibility of linking this issue to other issues; for example, the foreign sales act or the issue of hormones has been discussed. we are again asking ourselves whether the search for package solutions, based on political debate, is the formula we should use. we believe that our strong position with the united states is based on the need to respect the multilateral agreements. that is the way to go, and that is why we believe that the first decision is to use all the existing procedures in the world trade organisation, and by all the procedures we mean not only those which will take a long time to implement, but also the necessary retaliatory measures, always within the world trade organisation. of course, this may also lead us to the need to apply specific safeguard clauses which - i have already said - we want to affect the least possible developing countries, since our view on safeguard clauses is not to close our markets but to maintain our traditional commercial relations with our suppliers. the possibility of voluntary restrictive agreements to reduce exports, which some of you have raised, is clearly not compatible with the world trade organisation. as regards the clementines - the president-in-office of the council has already referred to this - i will only say that we are negotiating with the united states to try to find a solution to the problem before the next harvest. of course, as in the previous case, we are prepared to use all the legal remedies available under the world trade organisation. the commission has noted with satisfaction the broad consensus among the european institutions on the need to make multilateral institutions work and to meet the challenges of globalisation, seeking with our american partners the best possible solutions and ensuring that unilateralism is not the required option. pascal lamy said this morning - and i stress this - that it would be essential to seek an agreement, which is what we have seen here, among all the advocates of a new positive impetus in transatlantic relations. but that does not mean that we should not tackle the problems we have with all the measures and means at our disposal. as you know, we are currently studying and working on different options and any new input from this house would be welcome. finally, i should like to thank you for your clear support of the firm position taken by the commission. we hope that the resolution you will be voting on will strengthen the european union's positions on this fundamental issue for all of us.
- i have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 37 (2) of the rules of procedure. see minutes of the sitting. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- doc. b5-0010/02 by mr theodorus bouwman, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, to the council, on the modernisation of regulation (eec) no 1408/71 on the free movement of persons and the extension of that regulation to third-country nationals legally resident in the european union; and
deputising for the author. – mr president, firstly i should like to apologise for the absence of our committee chairman, mr bouwman, who unfortunately is ill this week, so that, as parliament's rapporteur on this issue it has fallen to me to introduce the question. parliament has long been aware of the problems concerning the legal base for the inclusion of third country nationals on the same footing as european union citizens under the proposed simplification of modernisation of regulation (eec) no 1408/71. as members know, this regulation seeks to coordinate social security systems between member states for people moving and working across borders. some of the reservations i have heard voiced about the extension of this regulation to third country nationals border, at times, on the xenophobic rather than the rational. you will be aware that the legal opinion provided by parliament's legal services felt that articles 42 and 308 of the amsterdam treaty, as initially proposed by the commission, formed the appropriate legal base for this extension as well as for the regulation as a whole. the european parliament agreed, as did the majority of the member states, and that legal base provided for the equal treatment of third country nationals legally resident in the european union and for the full involvement of parliament through the codecision procedure. additionally, this parity of legal base seemed to many of us to provide a strong signal in terms of the recognition of the contribution from third country nationals to the life of the european union and certainly met the twin aims of simplification of the process and natural justice. to me that parity was a clear signal of an inclusive europe. i and many others find ourselves at a loss, on reading the khalil judgment from the european court of justice, to understand why this should materially change the legal base on which council and commission are now proposing the extension of the regulation. the khalil case, insofar as legal experts have explained it to me, involves people covered by regulation (eec) no 1408/71 already, should they be allowed to legally reside in another member state and thus cross borders. they are included under this judgment because they are stateless people with rights to social security equivalent to those of nationals in the state in which they now reside as a result of international historical agreements. but no right of free movement is provided for by their inclusion under the regulation. the regulation does not grant freedom of movement. it maintains certain rights for those who move through coordination of social security systems. council's statement last december and the commission's new proposal do not explain the change in the legal base. they simply state it. it is an explanation that parliament is now seeking. what specifically in the khalil judgment has led council to its conclusion that article 63.4 is the correct base, when this was not the majority opinion before? has the european court of human rights case of gaygusuz v austria providing for nationality being no barrier to equal treatment to nationals in relation to social security not led to a conclusion of equal treatment in relation to the regulation and thus the parallel legal base? and why should the european parliament not be involved in this area which is directly relevant to the lives of so many people? hence our desire as well also to clarify the situation of workers in accession countries during any transition period when they will not be enjoying freedom of movement. council and commission will also be aware of this house's concern for the complex situation facing cross-border workers. the belgian presidency had put forward a number of proposals in this area, yet the agreement reached at present is only minimal, as parameter 8 concerning medical treatment shows. so what are the prospects for further improvements for this group of workers? we are also asking the commission for its perspective on a number of issues where council seems to be less enthusiastic about the commission perspective as well. we would also ask whether the increasing links between the tax and the social security systems are being addressed by council and commission, either within the context of the regulation or elsewhere. we are all well aware of the desire of council and commission to see increased mobility within the workforce and, as a member of parliament's committee on petitions, i know as well that a number of those who work in other member states find their situation made more difficult by the lack of effective information, but also by anomalies within the coordination system. many of us are concerned that council appears reluctant to make free movement an easy reality. we know this is a complex administrative issue, but many of the niceties of exclusion of certain benefits and complex rules simply appear as barriers. it appears at times that it is easier to move ball-bearings around the european union than it is to move people.
the council. - mr president, i can only say that i have taken very good note of the remarks made by the honourable members in this debate and that the presidency will naturally reflect on this matter.
commission. - mr president, i shall try to answer some of the questions very quickly. first, the taxation and social security systems. the tax system is a responsibility of the member states and is decided according to the place of residence. that is true, and therefore there are differences in treatment between member states. the social security system is regulated at community level by regulation (eec) no 1408/71 and is defined according to the place of work. we do not have tax harmonization and that is why the system i have mentioned above is applied, basically taking into account the oecd agreements. the second point raised was what our objective is with regard to social security. our aim is, of course, to apply the same social security system and the same rights to all citizens of the union, but also to all legal residents. as regards the problem of the opt-out of ireland and the united kingdom, as the honourable member is aware, it is true that the new legal basis is being considered. ireland has already indicated that it will participate. in the case of the united kingdom the question is still open and will be open until the beginning of may, which is the deadline they have foreseen for taking their decision. finally, as regards the characteristics of the new text, it is intended to be more modern than the previous one, with a simpler definition and more accessible to users of the existing legal system. the new text is intended to incorporate both the conclusions drawn from the judgments of the court of justice and the various amendments which have been made since 1971. the debate on the legal basis does indeed exist, but we think that the legal basis used is, of course, the correct legal basis under the present system, and it has obviously never been the commission's intention to affect parliament's rights in any way.
- this debate is over.
- the agenda calls for the report (a5-0062/2002) by mr trentin, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the situation in the european economy - preparatory report for the commission recommendation on the broad guidelines for economic policy (2002/2014 (ini)).
rapporteur. – mr president, this is an important milestone in the creation of the single market. today we will be debating two draft directives, including the prospectus directive, on which i have the honour to be parliament's rapporteur that incorporate the delegated powers proposed by baron lamfalussy's wise men. we all very much hope that this new way of dealing with financial regulations will prove to be a step change in creating a single market, the foundations of which have been put in place by the creation of the euro and its successful introduction. the prospectus directive is designed to establish the ground rules under which an issuer of shares, bonds or other securities may access investors throughout the 15 member states. at present, a company has to seek 15 regulatory approvals for 15 different sets of disclosure documents. this is a nonsense. it means separate markets in new issues, higher regulatory costs, higher costs of capital for business and less choice for investors. i have no doubt, therefore, that a single regime for prospectuses can create benefits for all, greater choice and higher returns for investors, lower costs of capital and funding opportunities for companies. the single market is a win-win game, not a zero-sum game. in drawing up requirements for an eu prospectus, it is important to strike a balance between the objective of lowering the cost of capital for businesses and that of protecting investors. there ought to be enough potential gains to secure both, and that is the balance we have tried to strike on the committee, i am particularly grateful to my colleagues, mrs piia-noora kauppi and mr harald ettl as the shadow rapporteurs, and to their respective groups, for their help and cooperation. we tried to make a break in this proposal with in-depth hearings to understand the issues and i hope that we have a substantial measures of consensus within parliament on many of the key problems and how to solve them. we all agreed we wanted, for example, to exempt the professional market for eurobonds from the requirement for a prospectus, but of course, to insist on one if the issuer wanted to attract retail investors. the broad framework for that is agreed across this house. we have one issue to settle: should we have a minimum unit for each exempted eurobond of eur 50 000 or of eur 100 000? i hope you will agree that eur 50 000 is enough to exclude retail investors, as the larger amount will prove cumbersome even for professional investors who are used to dealing in units of eur 10 000. the second key set of amendments deals with whether companies must annually update their prospectuses or whether, if they do not issue more bonds or shares, they do not have to do so. overall, the committee supported the view taken by the eu's regulators – fesco and now cesr – and that it makes sense for such annual updating to be optional if the issuer of bonds or shares wants to issue again. in addition, this is not a directive concerned with general disclosure requirements by companies trading on the market. we shall deal with the consultation in that area in due course. i have also been pleased to support an amendment from the socialist group to allow smaller companies to update their prospectus, if they so wish, with the filing of their annual report. we have also generally sought to have the commission, advised by the securities committee, take account of different securities and issuers including small business. therefore, the disclosure requirements will be tailored to particular circumstances. this leads me to a further compromise amendment, which would allow a national authority, if it wanted, to exempt companies with a market capitalisation of less than eur 350 million from the eu requirement, so long as they are not marketing outside that member state. this seems likes a large amount, but i would merely point out that there are a number of quoted companies currently meeting the small and medium-sized enterprise definition that would actually be covered by this. for example, the british technology group employs just 182 people and has a turnover of eur 22 million and a balance sheet of eur 32 million. it is an sme, but has a market capitalisation currently of eur 1.6 billion. small companies can have vast values, and it only takes one or two nobel scientists on board to ensure that that happens. it seems to me that, as an investor-protection measure, it is better to have these enterprises included within the scope. let me finally explain why i think issuer choice of regulatory authority is important. we want regulators to cooperate and they are increasingly doing so. we also want to give them an incentive to do so. by allowing issuers to choose between their regulatory authorities, largely as they do now, for example, on all securities except equities in a domestic market, we can ensure that that cooperation proceeds and that we gradually put in place the foundation for a single regulatory authority across the union.
counsel. - mr president, of course all the organs of european society are bound by the fundamental principles of respect for the individual and non-discrimination for any reason. but i think that the case you are raising is one of internal discipline in the catholic church, in which, i repeat, the council does not wish to interfere, because it has no competence.
mr president, first of all, the council seems to argue that it has no competence in the field of the individual rights. is the council therefore incompetent? i would like an answer. furthermore, will the presidency accept that member states have a duty to condemn such discrimination because they are signatories to the employment framework directive which prohibits discrimination including on the grounds of sexuality and which must be transposed by 2003? finally, will the presidency act on a point of principle and condemn such discrimination generally – discrimination which blights the souls of those who practice it as well as those who condone it either by their silence or by their inaction?
the one-size-fits-all monetary policy and single currency will inevitably lead to foreign direct investment flowing to the member state with the lowest income and corporation tax rates. how long will it be before there are demands for serious tax harmonisation in euroland? and how long before the current eu budget – which is capped at 1.27% of the member states' gdp – is deemed to be insufficient to stabilise a single currency zone, particularly after the imminent enlargement programme, which is presumably going to start by 2004, and particularly if there is an asymmetric shock to one of the member states, which will need bailing out by some central eu fund?
very briefly, the question which i had on the order paper today has been dealt with by mr de miguel in an extremely courteous, helpful and kind letter to me, which i received this afternoon. i would like to thank him very much for that and say how much my constituent will appreciate the point.
madam president, regarding conglomerates i would like to support a number of the amendments adopted in committee. the commission proposal needs significant revision. in particular, the provisions on material holdings are unduly harsh and would unduly restrict banks and insurance companies in investing in a range of equities. that is particularly important in the context of insurance companies investing their pension funds money. this house has made it very clear that it wishes that investors be given access to a wide range of different equities. these provisions, as drafted, would make it almost impossible for an insurance company or bank to invest pension funds money in other financial institutions because of the harshness of the deductions. i hope, therefore, that the compromises proposed in amendments nos 44, 46 and 48 will be adopted. i am not sure we have exactly the right answer yet, but it is clear that the material holdings provisions need to be altered. as regards article 14 i hope that the council and commission will progress the discussions. i know they are having to streamline the administrative process related to conglomerates with third-country parents. as regards prospectuses parliament should follow the example set by the committee. the commission's proposal applies a "one size fits all" framework designed for large equity issues to the diverse range of european financial markets. parliament should amend the proposal in order to reflect the diversity of those markets. shelf registration should be optional and not compulsory. just because they use it in the american regulatory system, that does not mean we should adopt it here. as recent events have shown only too clearly, the american regulatory system is not always a good one. we should exempt smaller businesses from part of the proposals, as proposed by the committee, and it is especially important that we recognise that there are particular concerns related to smaller businesses, particularly those which are only raising capital and doing business in one part of the european union. we should retain the current regulatory framework for the professional bond markets. where there are very sophisticated markets – indeed one of the most successfully integrated markets in the european union – it makes no sense to apply protections designed for retail investors in equities. we need issuer choice, otherwise we will have the same problems we have had with the existing prospectus directive. that is essential if we are truly going to integrate the market for capital raising. on market abuse the commission's proposal has severe problems. i congratulate mr goebbels for tackling a number of them. i still have a number of concerns about the directive. there are significant problems with a directive that penalises wholly unintentional conduct, and i hope the commission and council will accept the safe harbours put forward by mr goebbels in the compromises, which are based on a safe harbour for acceptable market practice. this is particularly important in the context of derivatives, where the scope of the definition of inside information would make it very difficult to hedge ordinary liabilities, relating for example to an interruption to supply or new research revealing details of potential new supplies. if such information is instantly disclosable as "inside information" it would make hedging impossible and the derivatives markets would grind to a halt. i would also urge the commission, council and parliament to look seriously at the amendments we have proposed on that. it is vital to recognise chinese walls where the proposal is being switched from a law which can be applied only to individuals to a law which can be applied to companies. it is very important that we encourage firms to take care to restrict the flow of inside information if at all possible, and i am very grateful to the rapporteur for responding to the concerns that i have expressed on this. chinese walls can be useful if they are enforced properly. we should encourage firms to use them and enforce them properly. finally, it is vital that we have proper protection for freedom of speech and for journalists. hence there need to be some radical changes to the proposals where they relate to the reporting of financial information by journalists.
mr president, most people would now say that they want the european union to play a stronger role in world affairs, but they appear sometimes to be uncertain as to the ways and means. this evening, in the splendid carnero gonzález report, we have part of the answer. the acquisition of an international legal personality would be a powerful instrument for the union. first, it will raise its international profile. second, by giving the union more respectability, it should encourage us to act more responsibly. it will open the door for a more proactive part for the union inside the united nations, the imf and the world bank. it will consolidate our role and the functions of the commission in the field of trade and the environment. but international legal personality cannot simply be asserted unilaterally. it must be earned if it is to win recognition under international law. what will assist us in winning this acceptance is for the union itself to become a contracting party to the council of europe's convention – a move that will complement the development of our own fundamental rights regime funded on the charter. this report prepares those of us in the convention to take the lead. we are grateful to the rapporteur for his sterling work.
mr president, on this report the british conservatives will abstain. within the delegation there is deep disagreement. some believe that what is proposed is a step in the direction of a european superstate. some, after considerable reflection, really do not know; and some believe this is a proposal that will create an entrenched bulwark against a superstate, and so are in favour. these views are individually deeply and honestly held, as indeed are my personal and private ones. in these circumstances, trying to compel one's colleagues to vote against their views on this kind of topic, in these kind of circumstances, is not only unlikely to work, it will not change their views either. all it does is cause trouble. while the subject matter of many of the non-legislative resolutions of the committee on constitutional affairs is very important, parliament's resolutions themselves are, in the world of real politics, some of the less important items we vote on; it is therefore folly, it seems to me, and shows lack of judgement, to engage in civil war about things which do not matter all that much. hence we are approaching this and other similar topics here within the framework of a broad church, which has the overriding advantage of being sensible, which i am not sure can be said about any other course of action open to us in the circumstances.
mr president, i should like to warmly welcome this report by mrs carlotti and congratulate her on her very thorough and far-reaching work. i am struck, in particular, by how strongly the theme of genuine partnership shines through; how the eu/acp joint parliamentary assembly is a unique relationship in modern political life and – imperfect as it is – it can stand as a model for new and innovative relations between north and south, which are perhaps today needed more urgently than ever before to build a more peaceful and sustainable world. that does not mean that there is not room to improve the workings of that relationship. i commend mrs carlotti for the proposal she makes in that regard. i would like to expand on a couple of them. first, if a partnership is a genuine one, then it must also be a consistent and coherent one; one that manifests itself not only in the eu's development policy but also in the eu's trade and economic policy; not only a partnership within the confines of the joint parliamentary assembly, but a partnership that extends into other international institutions like the wto, the world bank and the un. at the wto in particular, there is enormous scope for the eu and acp working more closely together. on trade there are some huge political challenges ahead, not least the negotiation of the regional economic partnership agreements. these have the potential to have damaging effects on some of the poorest acp countries who are simply not ready to open their markets to the eu and who do not have the negotiating capacity to engage not only in this process and the wto process but also in the process of their own regional cooperation agreements. it is therefore essential that the jpa plays an active role in shaping and monitoring this process. greater involvement of civil society will also be key. i appreciate the proposals in the report which would enable the views of ngos to be heard far more systematically in the jpa's proceedings. finally, a partnership must be a partnership of equals. we urgently need to find the means and the resources to fund it, to address the basic imbalance between the representation of the eu side, reflecting parliament's political make-up and spectrum of political views, and a system of representation of the acp states based on one country, one vote, which prevents different political views being expressed. the jpa is a unique instrument of cooperation and solidarity, north and south. we need to value it, improve it, and build on it as a model for north-south cooperation.
commission. – mr president, i will, of course, do my best. the tampere european council identified visiting rights as a priority in the creation of a single judicial area where decisions can circulate freely from one member state to another. this priority responds to the social reality of people increasingly relocating from one member state to another with families breaking up and reforming. as the honourable member has said, the commission is now working on a new proposal that brings together the commission proposal on parental responsibility of september 2001, the french initiative on rights of access of july 2000 and the brussels ii regulation. we expect to be able to present this proposal in april 2002. as was the case with the commission proposal and the french initiative, the aim is to fashion solutions that build on the mutual trust inherent in a common judicial area to best protect the child. this means going beyond the balance struck in the hague conventions while, at the same time, recognising their value in addressing international situations. to this end, in november 2001, the commission presented a proposal on the signature of the 1996 hague convention. the commission fully shares your concern about making progress fast. this now appears possible, especially in the light of the recognition during the informal meeting of justice and home affairs ministers in santiago de compostela in february 2002 of the need for a community-specific solution giving the final say in cases of child abduction to the member state of the child's habitual residence with the member state to which the child has been abducted being able to take provisional measures only. we trust that this work will continue to benefit from the support of the european parliament. honourable members are perfectly correct in pointing out the importance of mutual trust between national judges for the execution of decisions issued in another member state. for several years the commission has, through the grotius and grotius-civil programmes, continuously supported projects aimed at bringing together judges from different countries to improve mutual understanding of legal systems between member states. a significant number of these projects have focused on family law. support for such projects will continue to be available through the new framework programme for judicial cooperation in civil matters, to be adopted by the end of march. the new programme, which will apply from 2002-2006, will be endowed with higher budgetary means than the previous programmes. you may wish to know that, as concerns the implementation of the new programme in 2002, the commission is considering giving priority to training for legal practitioners on community instruments in the area of judicial cooperation in civil matters, including, for example, the brussels ii regulation. moreover, the new programme will also allow for direct actions taken by the commission to ensure the sound application and implementation of community law. such actions will, needless to say, also cover instruments in the family law area. mention should be made of the european judicial network in civil matters, which will be operational towards the end of the year. the network will also facilitate mutual understanding of the legal systems of the member states, as well as providing a means of identifying and solving problems related to judicial cooperation in civil matters. consequently, the commission considers that the necessary instruments – as concerns judicial cooperation in civil matters, including the family law area – are already in place to reach the objectives the members refer to. building on the un convention on the rights of the child, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union provides that the best interests of the child must be a primary consideration in all actions relating to him or her. as has been pointed out, the ‘best interests of the child’ is a fluid concept that is open to different interpretations and ultimately rests on the appreciation by the judge of all the elements of the case at hand. a multidisciplinary project that sheds light on the state of play as regards the different conceptions of the ‘best interests of the child’ would usefully complement our work by promoting mutual understanding of legal systems and thus reinforcing the requisite mutual trust for the free circulation of decisions. such a project would be eligible for financing under the above-mentioned new framework programme for judicial cooperation in civil matters.
mr president, i should like to thank the commissioner for his attendance at such a late hour. we have heard a reference to abduction, but of course abduction takes many forms and can be subtle. mrs banotti has raised the issue of a constituent of mine, mr guy foster; and allow me to summarise the case because it concerns real human lives. mr foster has been denied access to his child ever since his german wife returned to germany with the child following their divorce. the agreement was for the mother to have the right of abode over the son and for mr foster to have full visiting rights. however, once in germany, the mother neglected the child and spent time in psychiatric care, and the child was subsequently placed in the care of its maternal grandmother. despite mr foster's persistent attempts to contact his son, he has been cut off from him ever since, unable to speak with or visit him because the mother and maternal grandparents have withheld information. a court made a decision on this case, but he was given information about the court appearance after the date. documents were served in a foreign language. the handing over of care to the grandmother was thus allowed to proceed without mr foster being able to represent his views. i believe he has been denied and is still being denied the fundamental right to see this child and has been denied access to justice. this is surely wrong in the eyes of those of us who believe that we should always serve the best long-term interests of the child. mrs gebhardt referred to two key words: help and enable. we are fifteen different member states with different languages and different cultures, but we must never use language as a means of excluding people from the debate or denying them their rights. therefore, i urge the commission to take action, to be imaginative at community level and at member state level to ensure mutual recognition and judicial cooperation, and to put an end to these tragic human cases, which have consequences beyond our own time.
mr president, mrs gebhardt began by saying that europe is an area in which people feel secure. indeed, security was the raison d'être for what has become the european union today. the pioneers sought to make a peaceful europe and they, of course, succeeded. nowadays, we are at peace and people expect to be safe, but too often the european union is accused of meddling in things that are not important and too much of what the european parliament appears to do is irrelevant to ordinary peoples' lives. sometimes we discover a real area that needs legislation and yet we are powerless to act. as mrs banotti and mr cashman have pointed out, this is an area that needs legislation and where, i believe, european action would be positively welcomed. the cases of access we have heard about; in which parents are denied access to their children, are desperately distressing. they make the misery of separation even worse. being separated by time and space, by hundreds of kilometres and expensive flights, is painful and distressing for parents and children. president, commissioner, over the years parliament, the council and the commission have all worked to secure a common market for goods and capital, fair trade and free trade for those with money. now we need to make certain that we have, a fair market and a free trade for people so that families and children can work and move around with rules that are fair, rules that work and european institutions that enforce them. mr cashman said that the european union is fifteen countries. he is right, but with the addition of ten or twelve more countries in the pipeline, i shudder to think of the possibilities in this area if we do not act and do not succeed in getting legislation that works – legislation that will make the european union safe and secure for all its citizens, children and parents alike.
madam president, there were a couple of dissenting voices in the committee on agriculture about a subsidy for tobacco and i was one of them. i make no apology for that. i support the commission very much on what they are trying to do in phasing out tobacco subsidies and i would encourage them to continue at a faster pace, rather than a slower one. we cannot justify european taxpayers' money being spent on tobacco production. one of the key objectives of the common agricultural policy is to produce good, wholesome food for the consumers of europe. i cannot quite see how tobacco fits into this scenario. i have a great deal of respect for mr cunha, the rapporteur, but on this occasion he has got it wrong. he is a little like king canute, who wanted to stop the tide coming in but was unsuccessful. the committee on agriculture did not face up to the realities. over the past ten years we in europe have spent gbp 6.5 billion or eur 10 billion – gbp 2 for every citizen in europe – to subsidise tobacco. one third of this tobacco is of very low quality and is seldom smoked at all. another third is dumped on developing world markets which then destroys their markets for tobacco. is this a role of the common agricultural policy? it is a role we have tried to avoid. only one third of this tobacco is smoked in europe. we cannot, therefore, justify the support that we are giving. we all accept the need to support farming in rural communities, but we have to find different crops and different ways of supporting them in the future. the final point i wish to make is that, of all the areas of this support that i dislike, the continuation in amendment no 17 of the support for very low-quality tobacco is the most wrong. if anything should be corrected it is this. i urge the commission to phase out the growing of this very low-quality tobacco immediately.
mr president, i would like to thank mrs langenhagen for her report. the fish processing industry employs 18 140 people in the uk, that is, 20% of the eu jobs in this sector. the majority of these jobs are in scotland, and in some of the most peripheral areas of scotland. these jobs provide a lifeline to so many people living in rural areas. much more than that, they provide us with the finished fish product. without the workers in this industry we would not enjoy the fish we take for granted. that is why the committee on fisheries held a hearing and saw that the priorities for the industry were supply, continued employment, the environment, food safety, imports and also the consequences of enlargement. we know that some of our stocks are at seriously low levels, and therefore when there is a ban on cod fishing, it is not just the fishermen, but the processors that lose out too. we have to work towards availability of supply, but balance this with high hygiene levels and sustainability of that supply. the processing industry is an important one, which we should never lose sight of in any fishing debate.
mr president, my views on third-country fishing agreements are well known but once again i wish to record my disgust at the fact that the european union is entering into agreements which, despite the honeyed words, are nothing short of economic imperialism. what is particularly striking today is the sheer impotence of this parliament, together with the contempt with which it is treated by the council and the commission. today we are being consulted on an agreement which came into force in december 2001 – nearly three months ago. if this house had any dignity whatsoever it would protest against such cavalier treatment, but of course it is mute. this supposed watchdog has been very effectively muzzled. but even if the whole house rose up and voted to censure this proposal, it would not make a blind bit of difference. as ever, to its eternal shame, the committee on fisheries approved this agreement. but even if it had objected to it unanimously, once again that would not have made any difference whatsoever. so as we move to a vote i am sure that this house will do what it always does and rubber-stamp the decision already made by the committee. as a democratic institution one has to say that it is nothing more than a sham. but my question, mr fischler, is how many hundreds more black africans need to be killed by european union boats before you start listening?
rapporteur. – mr president, as rapporteur i wish to move an oral amendment. there is a compromise amendment proposed by the socialist group. it involves an exemption from the need for a prospectus on behalf of the most creditworthy member states. we should make it clear that we want this exemption to apply only to debt securities, so that they would not, for example, be able to undertake a privatisation without a prospectus, and therefore insert the word "debt" at the beginning of the compromise on no. 65.
in writing. - this report is particularly worrying in relation to some key aspects of subsidiarity and the effective choice of a competent regulatory body to act as arbiter of last resort. similarly, the idea of making statistical data public, so that the public can know what affects the markets, is impossible and unfeasible. the bill to be paid by the sector would also be disproportionate.
in writing. - while supporting the feira approach to this issue, the labour group is concerned that some of the amendments voted in this report will undermine the basis of cooperation already agreed.
in writing. - mr president, the european banking sector has been allowed to cultivate a culture of secrecy for tax reasons for too long. this culture not only runs counter to the eu's objectives of transparency and openness but also fosters an unfair tax competition environment. i therefore welcome the commission's determination to consolidate the situation and put an end to these harmful tax practices once and for all. however, it is vital, as this report stresses, that the directive applies to dependent territories such as the channel islands. if they were excluded, the directive as a whole would risk losing its effectiveness, since some people would be tempted to invest their money in tax havens. this directive is important because it will prevent the single market from being distorted by asymmetric tax regimes and will ensure that, after a transitional period of three years, member states can exchange information on the savings income of non-residents. all these new provisions will strengthen the rights of european citizens vis-à-vis the major banking institutions.
mr president, the british labour members did not support this report. we do not support the extension of the marketing scheme for nuts. we recognise, however, that production is commonly found in less-favoured areas, principally in spain, and that much of the production is barely competitive and brings little economic return. for these reasons it would make more economic sense to support the affected regions by a comprehensive programme for alternative crops or other activities that could be financed through the rural development programme. our vote accordingly urges the commission to bring forward proposals to this effect. we realise that these views are not universally popular but believe that they should ultimately result in a higher standard of living for the people affected. this is preferable to continued subsistence living and uncertain financial provision from cap funds.
mr president, the british labour members voted against the cunha report. our objective is a fundamental reform involving withdrawal of financial support for tobacco production. the proposal to extend the present financial provision is unacceptable. so too was the amendment in the report which would reduce the commission proposals for higher premia for the community tobacco fund. however, the economic and social importance of tobacco in certain regions must be taken into account. the commission must bring forward measures to develop alternative sources of income with a greater degree of urgency than it is currently showing. recognising this as the priority we voted for amendment no 21.
in writing. - we are very unhappy with the fisheries agreements between the eu and third countries, and particularly with the one concluded with the gabonese government, since it is known that 40% of the funds should be reserved for conservation measures. in view of the lack of good governance, we are concerned that these funds may be used for purposes other than those originally decided upon; that is why the conservative delegation abstained on the final vote.
in writing. - paragraph 12 is not consistent with the eplp's desire to harmonise upwards the excise duty on tobacco and alcohol in order to achieve the social objective of reducing consumption and to demonstrate the validity of the idea that taxation for social reasons is possible.
in writing. - the main message of this report is that the european commission has neglected the fishery processing sector. yet, faced with the effects of a whole host of community legislation, whether it be management measures under the cfp or other provisions relating to hygiene, food safety and the environment, this sector is too often ignored. the waste water directive is a perfect illustration of the lack of interest in the problems of the processing sector. i am therefore pleased that the committee has approved my amendments, which call for a comprehensive impact assessment of the legislation and, in particular, for the commission to support the development of water recycling systems, such as the one recently developed by a water treatment company in my own area in the north-east of scotland. structural aid should be examined more closely. processing enterprises have been hit hard by management measures under the cfp (quota reductions, dismantling, etc.) but have received little or no aid. structural aid should be positive; the commission has also proposed that the european union should be able to provide the necessary financial support to the sector in the form of grants, loans and guarantees.
mr president, in this seriously flawed presidential election, we have good grounds for believing that mugabe in reality lost the vote, but merely contrived to win the count. he will now be able to have his foot on the neck of the zimbabwean people for another six years. it represents a new low for democracy in zimbabwe and a disaster not just for zimbabwe, but for the whole of southern africa. mugabe personifies all the most negative strains in african development: corrupt and authoritarian power with state leaders lining their pockets at the expense of the people, racial division, the exploitation of envy, political violence and economic backwardness. zimbabwe is a beautiful and once prosperous country with the potential to be the bread basket for the region. instead, the economy is in chaos, with rampant inflation and unemployment and half a million of its people living on the edge of starvation, sustained only by world food aid. mugabe's re-election will seriously exacerbate all of these problems. i have to say that mugabe realised that his game might be up some two years ago, zanu-pf came close to losing the general election; and that is why for the past two years – not just the past two weeks – he has been trying to fix the political system in his favour by a systematic campaign of terror and intimidation against anyone who opposed him. this parliament should pay tribute to morgan tsvangirai, the mdc activists and all those who have had the courage to stand up to mugabe for all this time. i have to say it is a pity that the international community took so long to wake up to the situation in zimbabwe and that the european union waited until the eleventh hour before imposing targeted sanctions. at least we in this parliament can hold our heads up. we have been active throughout the last two years. the attitude of african countries has been particularly disappointing. we always felt that south africa, in particular, held the key to restoring genuine democracy and the rule of law in zimbabwe. however, south africa's leaders were found wanting. they could not find it in their consciences to condemn what they perhaps saw as one of their liberation brothers. what a pity for the people of zimbabwe – all the people of zimbabwe. at least the southern african development community election observer mission has felt able to recognise in its announcement yesterday that: 'the electoral process could not be said to adequately comply with the norms and standards for elections in the sadc region'. what they mean, i think, mr president, is that the election was clearly rigged. certainly, that is the opinion of the few other international observers that remained. how else do we explain, for instance, the bizarre declaration that turnout in the city areas loyal to tsvangirai was low, while in the zanu-pf rural strongholds, it was remarkably high? how else do we explain the missing ballot boxes which suddenly turn up stuffed up with mugabe votes? the international community must maintain its resolve. it must not recognise the legitimacy of this election result. there must be an intensification of the hunt for looted assets held overseas by mugabe and his cronies. there should be an extension of the eu blacklist, and we need to take further tough measures. south africa must begin to show leadership and demonstrate that it is committed to democratic principles in the region. our aim must be to help restore democracy, human rights and the rule of law to zimbabwe and assist in the process of economic progress there. our tough resolution today is a contribution to this, and i hope the council and the commission will listen to us. (applause)
mr president, too often we have to come to this chamber on a thursday afternoon to make speeches we would rather not have to make. that is certainly true today. i have been to kyrgyzstan several times in recent years, as it emerged from those dark days of the soviet empire and set the pace for the region in terms of political, economic and health reforms. i paid tribute then, as i have done since, to those periods of progress. but in the last couple of years we have become worried about progress in that country. president akayev, who came from a background of the academy of sciences, was elected in a free vote in 1991 and re-elected in 1995, has subsequently become more of an oppressive president than a democratic one. both parliamentary and presidential elections in 2000 sadly highlighted the flawed nature of the electoral process. we were concerned about candidates being banned on technicalities not least because of their knowledge of the kyrgyz language; about the press being suppressed and repressed; about community groups being prevented from playing their part in the process. symbolic of all this has been the arrest of azimbek beknazarov, chairman of the parliamentary committee on judicial and legal reforms. he was arrested in january and brought to trial in february. the trial was then postponed until this month. this is a country with many problems within its borders, including a lack of natural resources, racial tensions and incursions from abroad. eighty-eight per cent of its population lives on an income of under usd 4 a day. it does not need the opprobrium that will come from world opinion if it makes a mess of its democratic processes, its independent judiciary and its freedom of speech. that is why we move this motion today, asking them to listen. we will be watching for results.
in 1999, mr hamma hammami and three other leaders of the tunisian communist party were convicted in absentia for dissident activity. last month, after the defendants surrendered to the authorities, those sentences were confirmed in less than one minute without a presentation of evidence by the prosecution or defence or an examination of the witnesses. there are also accusations of widespread abuses by the government against other dissident groups. democracy and the rule of law are attributes enjoyed until recently by few countries even in europe. they take time to evolve and can appear fragile in the face of threats. in states such as tunisia, it may seem an achievement merely to resist the kind of radical socialism or islamicism that has blighted the lives of so many in the arab world in recent decades. we ourselves have to be careful, when we urge greater pluralism and respect for democratic norms around the world, that we do not undermine governments which, however imperfect, are moving in that direction. i believe, however, that the eu has an important role to play in helping to provide an example for countries which want to move away from a spiral of poverty, extremism and repression. nor can we entirely isolate ourselves from the problems experienced by neighbouring countries such as tunisia. by encouraging economic and political reform together with foreign direct investment, and with respect for good government, democracy and human rights, we help others and we also help ourselves, by reducing not only the resentment often felt against the west in the arab world, but also the migratory pressures that are generating serious problems in our own societies and which themselves require urgent solutions. for that reason, it is right for the french government to highlight the importance of giving aid to the maghreb countries, many of whose citizens are settled in london, which i represent, as migrants or refugees. it is also right to begin to open eu markets, including our agricultural markets, to poorer countries that wish to trade with us, in ways that benefit them more directly and prevent future migratory pressures by the long-term stabilisation of their own economies.
mr president, i am very glad to have the opportunity to address parliament on this most important of issues. the motion calls for justice and reparations for the muslim and tamil communities being persecuted in sri lanka. if 60 000 people were killed in the developed world – that is the magnitude of the atrocities we are looking at now in sri lanka – then every possible means would be deployed to address the matter and bring those responsible before the courts and establish the rule of law. there is serious and flagrant discrimination and economic underdevelopment in the areas of the country where the majority of the tamil population lives. this is an area where the european union could play a meaningful role, through funding programmes to address the imbalance and further the cause of peace and reconciliation. we must act concertedly here or more innocent sri lankans will join the half a million people who have already fled the country. the use of child soldiers and sexual assaults on sri lankan women is endemic. to turn our backs on this matter would deliver a serious blow to the important causes we often champion here of democracy, freedom and social justice. our attendance at the donors' meeting in sri lanka, scheduled for may, is vital. i also call on the presidency to ensure forthwith that this resolution is conveyed to the council, the commission and the government of the democratic socialist republic of sri lanka.
mr president, i would like to associate myself with the sentiments of the previous speakers on the subject of mr marco biagi. president, i congratulate you on the success of your first summit as president of this house. you set out to establish this parliament as a credible and reliable partner in the interinstitutional dialogue and to demonstrate that parliament, for its part, has closed what mr prodi described as the "delivery gap". you succeeded admirably on both counts. president-in-office, liberal democrats welcome a number of solid achievements at barcelona. the increase in overseas development aid to an eu average of 0.39% of gross national income is a positive step. if the union can go on to meet the un target of 0.7% of gross national income, we will no longer deprive the poor of eur 100 billion per annum in development assistance. we also applaud the summit's emphasis on making work pay and on reducing the tax burden on the low-paid, and the agreement on the energy tax directive. we need more economic growth but it must not be at the expense of our natural environment which we hold in trust for future generations. on the middle east, we welcome the declaration made by the european council. we urge the israelis and the palestinians to start fresh talks based on united nations security council regulation 1397, to accept international observers, to respect the geneva convention and to renounce terrorism and indiscriminate violence. i would also like to congratulate the high representative, mr solana, on the deal he brokered between serbia and montenegro: truly a first for european union diplomacy. british prime minister tony blair described the barcelona summit as a "make-or-break" occasion. he may now regret that hyperbole, because although barcelona undoubtedly represents a step forward on the road to economic reform, it is clear that this road will be long and winding. we must ensure that the delivery gap identified by mr prodi does not turn into a credibility gap due to the council's failure to meet the multitude of targets that it sets at every summit. one such example of a credibility gap is the partial agreement on energy liberalisation. what credibility will it have in the eyes of the our citizens if we deny them the benefits of more choice and lower energy prices? we urge the council to support parliament's call for a second stage of energy liberalisation to include domestic customers by 2005. the eu's credibility is also at stake in financial services. the pension funds directive has remained blocked in council since it was adopted by parliament at our first reading in july of last year. this is a prime example of a delivery gap which parliament has closed but which requires more than warm words from the council. the council has other ambitious aspirations too, such as reaching agreement on the european patent by may, and the public procurement framework. if the credibility of these spring economic summits is not to be undermined, then prime ministers must apply themselves to banging heads together to make sure their national ministers make progress on these issues. if we are to close the gap, president-in-office, between the european union and its citizens, this will not be achieved by suspending people's rights to free movement, especially if those people wish to exercise their democratic rights to express their views in protest. moreover, bringing the eu closer to its citizens requires progress on transparency. paragraph 51 of the conclusions calls for ensuring greater transparency of the legislative process. however, it foresees no specific measures before june and moreover, the secretary-general's report to council limits the documents to be covered by transparency to those laws adopted by co-decision. this contravenes the regulation we adopted on access to documents last year which sees a much wider definition of legislative documents. you are already four months late in implementing this. we call on you to do so. finally, in paragraph 20, the council conclusions envisage the creation of a group of wise men. i wonder whether, at a time when you recognise the importance of women's participation in the labour force and when you express concern for the welfare of women in nigeria, you might not, at least in this third millennium, talk about of a group of wise persons.
despite the pre-summit hype in the run-up to barcelona, which suggested that the agenda would be considerably skewed in favour of neo-liberalism and structural reform, the outcome maintains the essentials of the policy mix established at lisbon, namely mutually supported economic reform, full employment, social cohesion and, from gothenburg, the issue of sustainable development. the one element that we would have liked to have seen further developed in the overall mix at barcelona is that of sustainable development. we think that it needs to be stitched into the other policy strands and cannot simply be dealt with as an add-on. barcelona did, of course, touch upon the issue of liberalisation concerning the opening of the electricity and gas markets. i have two points to make in that respect. the first is that, alongside the liberalisation debates, we very much welcome the key decisions reached in barcelona to guarantee high-quality public services in the european union as a fundamental guarantee for citizens, and in the interests of territorial and social cohesion. the second is that, for us, liberalisation in sectors such as energy is not an end itself. it must be harnessed to the achievement of improved qualitative and sustainable growth, improved social cohesion and a better, cheaper, more effective service for citizens. prime minister aznar spoke about targets for 'inter-connectiveness'. from what i hear, however, liberalisation in spain has led to a number of broken connections, with blackouts occurring in madrid and in other areas. that is the sort of thing we need to avoid. the epp and ourselves have tabled a compromise text which i hope will win support in this house. there are two further points from that text which i would like to emphasise. first, there is a need to strengthen europe-wide economic investment policy in order to encourage public and private investment as a crucial element in the stimulation of economic activity. second, there is a need to recognise that labour market reforms have to be geared towards the creation of better-quality jobs, with a clear emphasis on the requirement for substantial investment in people and their potentials. this the point parliament made in the bullman report. this investment particularly needs to go towards education, training and life-long learning. the proposal adopted by the commission today concerning temporary agency workers is an important contribution in this respect. it will help promote a proper balance between flexibility for enterprises and a proper degree of security for workers working within and moving between those enterprises. it will also bring about improved employability. it is therefore a very welcome step. the essentials of the policy mix remain in place, and the compromise resolution which is tabled before us clearly sets out the steps we need to take in the weeks and months ahead. i hope the house will support it.
many of the achievements of barcelona are, of course, welcome, and i join with those who have been recognising the enormous efforts of the spanish presidency and the european commission in pushing forward those achievements. we should be no under illusions, however: the method by which these summits are organised is now in crisis. we are all suffering from "summititis", a condition in which wildly inflated expectations puff up before each summit. it must be said that this situation is not helped by some rather hyperbolic rhetoric from certain european union capitals, for example describing the summit as a "make-or-break event". these expectations are then inevitably dashed when set against the realities of grubby deal-making in the european council. this harms the credibility of all of us. it really is time to stop the illusion that suggests that european union competitiveness can somehow be invented at annual spring european union summits. that is not how to create competitiveness. creating competitiveness requires a much more prosaic approach. the lisbon 2002 objective requires constant hard slog and a consistently-applied approach across many policy fields, not an endless diet of symbolic and tokenistic rhetoric. my final point: competitiveness is not just about how you launch initiatives and how many targets you set. it is also about how legislation and regulation is designed and crafted to ensure that it has the impact for which it is intended. too often, european union legislation and regulation have effects which run directly counter to the wider aspiration of competitiveness. i was glad to hear this view echoed by mr barón crespo earlier. i welcome paragraph 19 of the barcelona summit conclusions and look forward to the new interinstitutional approach, which we hope will install regulatory impact assessments applicable to the work of all european union institutions. we look forward to that initiative appearing at the seville summit.
whatever brave face we put on it the outcome of the barcelona summit was indeed a disappointment. the lisbon process that was launched with such high hopes two years ago stalled in stockholm last spring. last week european leaders achieved just enough to keep economic reform on the road, but much too little to move it decisively forward in the way that europe urgently needs. i was not surprised to hear the attack on tony blair's approach to the summit from his own mep, stephen hughes, this afternoon describing mr blair's approach as neo-liberalism. we know that mr blair has no influence over the socialist instincts and votes of his labour meps here but, long ago, tony blair spoke of barcelona as being a make-or-break summit. after the meeting he spoke only of small solid steps. mr aznar has described the lisbon process as irreversible but that is not really the point. even if europe is not moving backwards, the failure to make real progress actually costs europe jobs, prosperity and success. as the barcelona meeting approached, the presidency's goals became more modest and more vague. instead of full energy liberalisation, refused by france last year in defiance of its treaty obligations, we now read "partial" liberalisation, sometime in the future. instead of immediate action on the single market we read a string of deadlines tailing away over the years ahead. sadly, the communiqué issued last weekend is really just a wish list of deadlines. it is not a series of binding agreements in spite of the best efforts that have been made by the spanish government and by the spanish prime minister to whom i give due credit. the tough bargaining on the precise terms of the non-domestic energy liberalisation, for example, on financial services directives, on the single european sky, still lie ahead. on each of these, barcelona is simply an assertion of will and not yet a done deal. at the same time barcelona also points europe in the wrong direction in other ways. the communiqué casually looks to greater government spending on a range of priorities whereas really it is lower taxes and smaller government that are the keys to europe's future economic success. it reaffirms a european social model that is desperately in need of reform. it envisages greater harmonisation of energy taxes as the reward for what is a limited and uncertain energy liberalisation conceded by france. french resistance on energy and the interventionist tone of parts of the communiqué highlight the continuing need to oust socialist governments right across europe. the liberalising instincts and hopes of prime ministers aznar and berlusconi are encouraging but the european union will only be able to put them into practice if mr hughes and his friends on the left are rejected from power in the many national elections that are taking place this year. the return of the centre-right to power in portugal after italy, austria and denmark is a hopeful sign. unless there is real change the hopes for europe's economic future will be dashed. finally, the financial times put this properly: " the promise to become the world's most competitive economy sounded widely ambitious in lisbon two years ago. without rapid practical progress it will soon seem ridiculous".
commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 27 february the president, mr prodi, informed you of the decisions taken by the commission that day, and in particular of the commission's political priorities for 2003 and the commission's human and financial resources needs. as we said at the time, this year, for the first time, the three main institutions are engaged in an in-depth dialogue on the political priorities and on the legislative and work programme for the coming year. the dialogue will be conducted on the basis of the new agreement submitted to the conference of presidents on 31 january and a renewed consultation procedure with the council. on 4 march we presented the political priorities for 2003 to the general affairs council and we are carrying out structured coordination work with the greek and italian presidencies in order to give full meaning to the medium-term programming. our aim is to base programming on a political dialogue with the representatives of the union's states and the citizens, thus relying on the exercise of the right of initiative which the treaty gives exclusively to the commission in a process in which the participation and the hearing of the various positions is maintained to the maximum. it is obvious that it is we, the commission, who will ultimately have to assume the responsibilities - i repeat - that the treaty assigns to us. but we will do so in a context where the exercise of this prerogative is not only politically responsible but open. let it be done with light and stenographers, without lists of "good" intentions negotiated in the dark corridors of any institution. in this connection, i urge the presidency of this parliament, and parliament as a whole, to continue its work of political action to promote the parliamentary institution as the supreme organ of democratic debate and co-decision, capable of going beyond mere detailed discussions or simply defending some specific positions. as you know, the commission has set three priorities for the year 2003: first, enlargement; second, stability and security; and third, a sustainable and supportive economy. since taking office, this commission has been committed to the success of the enlargement process. because enlargement remains our top priority for the second part of our mandate. in this respect, 2003 will be a crucial year: we must prepare to welcome all the representatives, all the commissioners from the new member states to the commission and we must face the new challenges facing the union. but the commission has also decided to give priority to another area of action: first and foremost, stability and security. within the union our main objective is to accelerate the creation of a european area of justice, security and freedom. the fight against crime in all its forms, including terrorism - and today more than ever, once again, we must repeat that this includes terrorism - is and will remain the first item on our agenda. we must continue to pay special attention to immigration, with all its complicated effects. solidarity with those who seek to improve their own living conditions and those of their families must go hand in hand with the rigorous and orderly management of migration flows at european level. we need cooperation on common border controls, the exchange of information and common rules for the entry and readmission of immigrants, as well as harmonization of the rules governing the movement, life and behaviour of all. on the external front, the extension of stability and security to the whole of the european continent and to the regions bordering the enlarged union is another key priority. that is why we must once again strengthen our partnership with all our neighbours. the third pillar of our policy for 2003, mr president, is a sustainable and supportive economy. there are signs of recovery in the not too long term. however, the speed and intensity of this recovery also depend on the degree of commitment with which the union strives to implement the lisbon strategy. the external dimension of this strategy is of particular importance as a contribution to the governance of globalisation. and our contribution must be directed towards sharing the benefits of recovery among as many countries as possible. ladies and gentlemen, the commission's political priorities also include the urgent need to resolve our shortfall in human and financial resources. the annual political strategy therefore not only identifies the main political priorities, but also aims to ensure that the commission will have adequate resources for this task. as president prodi said on 27 february, this commission does not intend to take on any mandate without having the necessary resources. simply because that would be setting us up for failure. at the moment, we cannot adequately prepare for enlargement unless we obtain more human resources. for this reason, after careful consideration, the commission has included the request for 500 temporary staff in its annual political strategy. it is obvious to everyone that this is a minimum figure, which is far below the tasks which enlargement imposes on us in 2003. it is well known that the current ceiling on administrative expenditure does not allow us to have the resources needed to prepare for the enlargement process. the commission therefore considers it essential to make use of the flexibility instrument. it is not the right instrument, but we understand that it is the only instrument available. we also have two other major tasks: security and the development of a policy for a sustainable economy, which are an additional responsibility for the commission. however, in order not to have to ask for a new increase in staff, we have decided to approve only those initiatives which we can develop by redistributing the existing forces internally or simply by completing some of the activities which are being developed. mr president, this is a proof of the seriousness and rigour with which the commission takes its priorities without forgetting budgetary discipline. as regards financial resources, i would remind you that the commission and the budgetary authorities must urgently find a structural solution to the chronic shortfall in heading 4, which relates to external relations. the present rigidity does not allow us to optimise our actions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is today setting out the main lines of action. this debate will be followed by debates in each and every committee, in which the commissioners will take part together with the members who are members of the committees. that will be the time to further define and develop these major lines of action. in any event, let me express my gratitude in advance, on behalf of the whole commission, for your constructive and practical contribution to the best possible management of the priorities for 2003.
the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the presidency listened with particular interest to the presentation by vice-president de palacio of the commission's annual policy strategy for 2003, which constitutes the first phase of the planning and programming cycle of the priorities defined by the commission. this is not only a question of identifying those priorities but also of analysing the best way of rationally using the union's financial and human resources. i am particularly pleased that the priorities identified by the commission, such as enlargement, stability and security, and the sustainable and inclusive economy, largely coincide with those defined by the presidency itself and the european union as a whole, and confirmed by the barcelona european council, on which the president-in-office of the council, the president of the spanish government, has just informed this parliament. the presidency welcomes the commission's intention to open a dialogue on the strategy presented, in which the budgetary implications will be a key element. the link between the debate on the strategic priorities and the budgetary procedure for 2003 will therefore have to be carefully prepared. the council has already had some exchanges of views and considers that the general affairs council next may could include in its agenda a first political debate on the commission's strategic priorities for 2003. the budgetary aspects, which in the view of the presidency should include the implications that enlargement might have for expenditure such as real estate needs, could also be discussed at a time when it is considered most appropriate within the overall framework of the budgetary procedure. the presidency does not exclude that the first political debate on the commission's strategy will be followed, in the autumn of next year, under the danish presidency, by a new discussion with a time horizon closer to the decision on the union's budget. the presidency, mr president, reiterates its readiness to support the strategic priorities proposed by the commission and to analyse in depth their budgetary implications in due course.
mr president, my group welcomes the fact that this debate is taking place this evening because this is the first time that we have been able to have an annual policy strategy debate this early in the process of the budget for 2003. the fact that the council – although it might not be listening – is actually present in this debate is an important sign that the three institutions should indeed be working coherently together. my first point is that we are looking at a significant change in the process of doing things where, firstly, we have a definition of commission policy priorities, secondly we are trying to ensure the right match between tasks and measures for 2003 and, thirdly, that we welcome this idea of having a strengthened institutional dialogue so that we can ensure that the budget is actually collectively decided. of course, that debate starts here and now in march 2002. so, are the priorities the right ones? it is still very early in the day to know that but the fact is that we have been able to find: enlargement, stability and security, and the sustainable inclusive economy. it is very difficult to find a subject which does not fall under those three but, in the light of the way in which this has been prepared, we in this house and our committees will find the right way in debates to put forward where we think the priorities lie. there will surely be debates, for example, on enlargement. can the commission, as it says, complete the linguistic and administrative preparations for enlargement during 2003? can it continue to implement the reform of the commission so it will be entirely modernised by the end of 2004? these are questions that we are clearly going to have to raise and the same applies to stability and security. the wish is expressed to set up the european food safety agency and get it operational. as far as i know this decision has not yet been taken and, therefore, we need to be clear about what we are trying to do in these debates. clearly, in the sustainable inclusive economy there are a whole range of different issues in terms of having the human and financial resources available. this raises the point of your 500 non-permanent posts, which we are going to have to examine in detail. to conclude, this debate is something which is to be welcomed. this document sets out a number of clear targets to be achieved in which we, in parliament and the council, will have to participate. hopefully we will be able to end the year with the better matching of budget and legislative procedures which we have been asking for. i would conclude by noting that there is one major point on the availability of financial resources. it clearly says in the document that payments will be restricted, not just for the repayment of outstanding commitments but that payments should be contained elsewhere in the budget so as to make sure we do not go over the ceilings required. therefore, 2003 will be an exceptionally difficult year but we have started early enough to find the right kind of solutions.
two years ago i spoke in the debate on the annual legislative programme on behalf of the liberal group, and i was very critical of the old process which i described as the swapping of shopping lists between parliament and commission. now we have a proper process, a proper interinstitutional dialogue. we have in front of us now a broad strategy tailored to the overriding political goal of enlargement and few of us would disagree with the broad picture and, indeed, the early attempt to attach budgetary implications. now the real process will start with detailed consideration in parliament's committees and this is what is paramount. at last there is meaningful involvement of parliament and i have no doubt the committees will start to flesh out a final legislative programme. this is a welcome change in our working methods and should allow us to plan and prepare our legislative work much better. added to these developments, the legal affairs committee had an historic joint meeting with national parliamentarians, this morning, to discuss the eu legislative process and how community law is implemented. there can be no doubt that colleagues in national parliaments need fair warning of what we will be dealing with and when. this will allow them to input to us or to hold their ministers in the council to account in a meaningful way. it was clear from our discussion that those member states who allow their national parliamentarians early involvement in the process have far less difficulty implementing community legislation. their citizens are more comfortable with the process and the final result has increased legitimacy. that is the real connection we are all striving to obtain with our citizens so there are thankfully new winds blowing through our legislative process. the convention may unleash a few more but i am glad to see that those wretched shopping lists have gone at the first blast.
the annual policy strategy for 2003 contains some key initiatives on the development of a sustainable and inclusive economy. in particular, the commission wishes to tackle the mid-term review of the cap and the reform of the cfp. together these two major policy areas swallow half of the total eu budget but both the cap and cfp have failed to meet their core objectives. they have failed to safeguard jobs. they have failed to secure a fair standard of living for our rural communities and they have failed to achieve sustainability. with that record of failure radical reform is long overdue and i am pleased to see that such proposals are central to the policy strategy for 2003. indeed, in mid-april, the european commission will publish its legislative proposals for the reform of the common fisheries policy. the centrepiece of this reform package will surely be devolution, devolving fisheries management to key stakeholders in discrete fishing zones. although these committees will only act in an advisory capacity, at least initially, by involving fishermen, scientists and marine ecologists they will mark a dramatic step towards decentralisation of power, away from brussels, and back to the grass roots. at a time of collapsing fish stocks, diminishing fleets, lost jobs, decommissioning, tie-ups and lay-offs, such an initiative could not come too soon and is to be greatly welcomed. in the eu we have far too many fishermen chasing far too few fish. we need an overall cut in the capacity of around 40% of the fleet, but let me make a special plea to the commission and to the council. please do not export our problems of over-fishing and over-exploitation of resources out of the eu and into third countries. recent case studies in mauritania and senegal show that they have depleted stocks. in mauritania, catches of octopus have halved in the past four years. some species, such as sawfish, have disappeared altogether. i applaud the policy strategy for seeking sustainable and inclusive objectives but let us remember such objectives must apply outside the eu just as much as inside.
mr president, the reason i and many conservative, or european democrat, colleagues abstained on the vote overall is that there is an unacceptable reference in paragraph 37 to the uk/spanish talks on the future of gibraltar which in no way takes into consideration the views of the 30,000 gibraltarians who clearly wish to retain their sovereign link with britain. the uk labour government has little interest in defending their cause, and has informed gibraltar that it will be marginalised and financially pressured into falling into line with uk european strategic goals if they do not support the outcome of the talks. it is my belief that if this becomes reality gibraltar should seek self-determination or some sort of andorra-type solution. if the spanish government disagrees it should consider what its response would be if portugal were to insist on its treaty right to have olivenca returned by spain or morocco were to insist on ceuta and mellila becoming theirs.
in writing. - despite the strong words of tony blair before the opening, the barcelona council was disappointing and fearful. in the past, the council has promised to put sustainability at the forefront of european development. the summit was nothing more than a series of fine speeches in support of this commitment. the so-called liberalisation advocated by tony blair's right wing has crashed on the rocks of french intransigence in the production of electricity for domestic use: in short, électricité de france can continue to acquire companies outside france while remaining immune from reverse operations. the speeches on liberalisation too often conceal policies which, in relation to the single market, dance to the tune of the monopolistic tendencies of large companies. adam smith's vision of free trade free of all intervention by large concentrations of capital is very far from the reality we see in today's globalized economy. as regards gibraltar, we can only welcome the progress made between spain and the united kingdom. however, no mention is made of the population of gibraltar. what about self-determination?
mr president, on a point of order, i should like, through you, to thank president cox for his visit to the uk today. in that context, on behalf of the ppe-de group, may i say that a number of my british colleagues wish to participate at least in some way in the occasion of the state funeral of the queen mother tomorrow. that is to take place at 12.30 p.m. i have raised the matter in my group, which supports my request, that the vote tomorrow might be brought forward to 11.30 a.m. so that all british members who wish to can at least watch the state funeral at 12.30 p.m.
mr president, on a point of order, in connection with the point raised by mr evans, i too would like to thank president cox for his visit to london today to pay his respects on behalf of the european parliament on the occasion of the death of the queen mother. i hope that the conference of presidents can give positive consideration to the request made by mr evans that the votes be brought forward tomorrow morning, so as to enable those british members, and other members, who may want to watch the funeral on television to do so.
mr president, we should not lightly move question time to the commission. it is all very well to play high politics in this house but to many of our members question time to the commission is extremely important. indeed, much of our work of scrutinising of the commission is done through question time. i accept the case on this occasion, since we wish to have representatives of the council and the commission present for the debate. however, i would appeal to my colleagues in the other groups that we do not make a habit of moving question time to the commission. it is an important part of our work. our view on the question of the vote is that we are in a very fast-moving situation. we will certainly know more by thursday than we will by wednesday. there is a good case on this occasion for taking that vote on thursday lunchtime and not on wednesday.
mr president, i would like you to clarify an earlier point. you said we would be losing question time, but are we also losing the commission communication at 5.30 p.m.?
mr president, on a point of order, perhaps the house would like to know that at the joint parliamentary assembly held in cape town, which was ably co-chaired by mrs kinnock, we passed a very strong resolution. that is the good news. the bad news is that under the new draconian laws which have been brought in by president mugabe, the editor of the daily newspaper which printed the resolution, in full and accurately, has been threatened and charged with a usd 2 000 fine – or two years in prison if he does not pay it. he has declared that he would rather go to prison than not tell the truth. since this house is founded on freedom of speech, could the presidency write to mr mugabe and say that we would not expect any harm to come to this man and that we support freedom of speech.
mr president, i naturally support what my colleague, mr corrie, has said. this would be the first application of the access to information act recently adopted by the parliament in zimbabwe. we should not underestimate the seriousness of the threats to these journalists on the daily news. we should accordingly be very careful not to inflame the situation in any way. therefore i would ask that we should perhaps consider writing to the minister of justice rather than to president mugabe, and also that we should say that we are merely confirming the facts of what happened in cape town. in the current situation we do not want to say anything that does not sound neutral. i would just urge that we bear that in mind when the letter is sent.
mr president, on a point of order, i want to make a complaint about my colleague, mr helmer. he produces an electronic newsletter called ‘straight talking’ and in that he has written what i consider to be a very serious insult to mrs nicole fontaine. he describes her views as socialist verging on marxist – which i think would come as a surprise to mrs fontaine, as well as to others in this house – but the most serious thing he says is that the title of her memoirs should be ‘mein kampf’. that is a serious matter and i would like to invite mr helmer, through you, mr president, either to apologise and retract these remarks, or alternatively to explain them.
mr president, i thank mrs read for giving such a good plug to my electronic newsletter. if any colleagues wish to go on the circulation list, please let me know and i shall be happy to oblige them. mrs fontaine gave a speech before the lisbon summit in which she criticised the evils of capitalism. i therefore feel entirely justified in describing those views as socialist verging on marxist. the remark i made about mrs fontaine's book mes combats was, as i recall, that humorists in parliament had been saying that the german edition should be entitled ‘mein kampf’, which is, i believe, german for mes combats. thus, i was merely repeating gossip, which i feel i am entitled to do. i would say to mrs read, my regional colleague, that the issue of the speech which mrs fontaine made before the lisbon summit was aired in this chamber nearly two years ago. so she is a little behind the times.
mr president, i would just like to reply to mr schultz. he makes two points. the first point is a political point about mrs fontaine's attitude contained in her speech at lisbon. there she made a speech attacking capitalism in very clear terms. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, firstly i would like to respond on behalf of mr cashman who is a socialist group shadow on this report and cannot attend this evening. he would like to inform the house that the pse group welcomes this report and the measures in it intended to prevent the activities of hooligans and organised thugs at matches. we will, however, need to monitor the way these monitoring centres carry out their functions to ensure that the football community is fully engaged in the exchange of information. most important of all is the need to ensure adequate resources both in financial and personnel terms. it would be wrong to raise expectations to a level which cannot be met. we can, of course, defeat hooliganism. the proposals indicate we have the will to do the job, but the resources must follow. then i would like to intervene personally in this debate. i too would like to add my support to mr deprez's report and its amendments, specifically, his amendment 10 calling for closer cooperation and an organised exchange of information. if the european network of national football information centres is to be effective, then we need to address the current weaknesses in the system of information exchange and ad hoc contacts. on friday, i visited the football intelligence unit in the greater manchester police service. unfortunately, we have a wealth of experience and expertise in tackling football-related violence in my city. the assistant chief constable of greater manchester police has read this report and he welcomes the initiative in the light of what he calls "different standards in dealing, for example, with manchester united away fixtures and england away fixtures". on friday the unit was preparing for two key matches on saturday. one of those was oldham versus stoke city: the last time these two teams had met, known hooligans had rampaged through the town, wrecking property and attacking people. in the uk we have pro-active football legislation to deal with our hooligan problems. this allows us to impose banning orders; so, when a hundred of those fans arrived in oldham, they were immediately arrested because they are banned from attending any matches. those banning orders also apply to international matches. the football intelligence unit has a sophisticated database of so-called 'football prominents', using the latest digital image technology to update and record cases. let me tell you where the unit believes the eu information exchange system has to do better: 150 fans were deported from charleroi in june 2000. among those arriving in manchester airport were belgian nationals, some of whom may not have been involved in any hooliganism at all. rounding up and deportation without prosecution does nothing to help the intelligence network on hooliganism. a list of, and report on, the deportees was then sent to the intelligence unit: very helpful as far as it went, but the report contained no information. officers could not read it because it was not in english, and they could not act on it because the information did not allow for any further action due to prosecution or conviction. during euro 1996, german fans arrived in manchester. as a result of german data protection and privacy laws, no lists of known hooligans could be passed on to the local intelligence forces and the officers working in the unit therefore had no information accessible in a usable format to tackle the hooligans. so there is an issue here, commissioner, in that we do need to standardise our information formats while recognising that there are different cultures on policing and information collection across the eu. perhaps we need to consider some form of information protocol. this was the idea of my own football intelligence unit officers. we need to deal with hooliganism pro-actively not re-actively. on the issue of cost, which is an amendment tabled by mrs sanders-ten holte, no doubt it would be useful to have a study on whether clubs should pay more for the policing of hooliganism. the difficulty is, however, who pays those costs after hours in cities where football hooligans are still engaged in activities. in 2004 we will be hosting the final of the european championships at old trafford in manchester. our priority has to be to protect the law-abiding supporter and clamp down on hooligans who spoil the game. we need a practical, pro-active approach to information sharing for national monitoring centres. their existence alone, commissioner, will not guarantee the end of football hooliganism.
mr president, i would also like to thank mr deprez, and indeed the belgian state, for this excellent report and excellent initiative. it is true that the scourge of violence, often organised violence, has plagued international sport, particularly international football, for too long. we wholeheartedly support initiatives that are aimed at increasing cooperation between authorities in different member states. they are a vital tool in the battle to keep sport clean and to keep it as it should be. we like you to consider one small, but important, textual amendment. the proposed decision is flawed in one respect: it appears to assume that each member state is represented by just one single national team. this is not so, as you well know. my own country, for example, is represented by an independent scotland team, despite the fact that scotland is, for the time being anyway, not an independent member state. we have a long footballing pedigree and indeed the first international football match ever played was the game between scotland and england in 1872. scottish supporters – the so-called 'tartan army' which is tartan, but not an army – have for quite a few years now had an unparalleled reputation for good behaviour and good humour. it is for this reason that i and my efa colleagues have tabled three amendments to the council text. they will not change the substance but they will give recognition to the distinctive footballing and indeed legal histories of scotland, wales, northern ireland and england. do not speak about the national team, but about national teams. i see mr deprez accepts the point and i am most grateful to him for that.
rapporteur. – madam president, following on from mr deprez's excellent report, it seems to me rather tragic that i have to address this house on matters which frankly, here in the twenty-first century, we should not have to be debating, let alone dealing with: genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. only a few short years ago, i was the uk minister responsible for legislation, setting up the appropriate mechanisms for dealing with war criminals from a past era. it is therefore particularly sad that we have a situation where there are still many extremely evil people in the world who behave in a manner which is totally unacceptable to all decent people who believe in democracy and the freedom of individuals, as i do. i want to say a word or two about this report, because some people have commented that it is unnecessary to have a system of contact points in europe to deal with these matters, that there is already plenty of cooperation at police level, for instance, and justice ministry level. sadly, that is not the case. although we had the statute for the international criminal court in july 1998, this is ultimately a matter which is still the prime responsibility of national governments and national criminal jurisdictions. the cooperation between national governments and national police enforcement authorities, for instance, is absolutely critical in bringing to book some of the rather more unpleasant people who we need to deal with, owing to the international and horrendous nature of their crimes. i remember, as minister, speaking to my polish opposite number, mr miller, – who, coincidentally, is now the polish prime minister – about certain war criminals. although poland is not currently a member of the eu, but hopes to be before too long, it was clear that there was much work which still had to be done in an attempt to produce a more cooperative effect between the different law enforcement authorities. one of the possibilities is, as my report suggests, to have contact points which are readily identifiable in the different nation states. indeed, an amendment which we have tabled to the report makes it clear that we believe that we should not leave this as a vague proposition to be determined at some point in the future, but that it should be clearly the case that the contact points should be based in the police or justice departments of the member states. that is the first point. it is also important, as was noted in the previous debate, that we look at the latest methods and make sure that there is a coordination of those methods in bringing about the necessary prosecutions and convictions. the issue of data, for instance, is most important. there were concerns shown by some people about the privacy of individuals and the rights of defendants that might be effected by a duplication or by a different approach to data matters. i am trying, in this report, to bring about consistency. i am sure that commissioner vitorino would agree that we need to have more consistency in a cooperative effort. i do not agree with everything that happens on a european basis, but here we have a situation where there is a clear need for cooperation at a level at which we are consistent in our approach. we also need to have systems in place which can be easily recognised and easily transmitted between the nation states that are concerned. cooperation is the key to success. it is the key to success in the areas which mr deprez has spoken about. it is the key to success in the areas that i am proposing here. it is a necessary measure. this report underlines this need and, above all else, it shows the determination of all of us in the different states of europe to get together to deal with the more unpleasant people who sadly still exist on this globe.
mr president, following the events of 11 september there was a real international will to streamline and improve systems of extradition in connection with terrorist crime. whilst it is true that terrorism may have an environmental impact, for example the release of pathogens or the deliberate poisoning of water, this report goes much further than terrorism. i agree with mr berthu that we must resist attempts to extend the eu's sphere of influence into the judicial area, environmental or otherwise. i am particularly worried about the amendments which talk about extradition or about the surrender or confiscation of profits as first pillar powers. the advice of parliament's legal services is that there is no legal base under article 175 for this measure. why do we pay these lawyers to give us advice and then ignore it? i am keen to see member states cooperating to adopt measures under the third pillar to combat environmental crime, for example in common definitions of criminal offences; but the british conservatives will vote for rejection of this report as amended because it has no legal base. it talks a lot about subsidiarity in the recitals, but the articles themselves fly in the face of the principle of subsidiarity. the european union would be better advised to divert its energies to an area where it does have legal powers to bring errant member states before the european court of justice for non-compliance with existing directives, as mr von boetticher suggested earlier.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr oostlander and mr von boetticher for their reports. i will concentrate my remarks on the oostlander report and the argo system. we recognise that a common approach to immigration, to the question of visas and asylum and our external borders is essential. i do not believe the european union is functioning properly if we do not have such a common approach. we are moving towards this, and we need to have a realistic and modern interpretation that recognises the situation in europe and the rest of the world as it is, not one that pretends the situation is different or imagines it as we would like it to be. i want to address amendments nos 41 and 42 to which mr oostlander referred and over which he and i have had discussions because these are very important. i am grateful to mr schmidt and baroness ludford of the liberal group for tabling amendment no 42 because this was the subject of a heated exchange in our committee and it was owing to a slight administrative difficulty that it fell one vote short of being passed in committee. the challenge of no 42, by comparison with no 41, was that amendment no 42 talks about offering asylum and protection to people who are escaping from state and non-state persecution. it is the non-state persecution to which we must address our attention. we can all think of countries where we do not like the regime and where people are escaping from being harassed, persecuted and attacked by the state, but here, however, we must consider the cases in which these people are escaping from non-state organisations or bodies. i have given examples before about afghanistan where the taliban were not recognised as a state. if we did not include this, we would not have been accepting persecution by the taliban as a reasonable reason for offering asylum to people. then there are other countries around the world, somalia for example – about which i am not an expert – where it is difficult to understand what is the state and what is not the state. there are also people fleeing from war-torn countries who need protection. we could have a long list of those countries. so, there are many countries which are divided by forces of one faction or another, some state and some non-state. it may only be a few, but my group believes we should offer protection to them: that is why we will be supporting amendment no 42, and i think that it should be voted on before amendment no 41 because it is stronger and moves in a different direction. if, in amendment no 41, the words 'and current practice' were to be removed, we would not have quite so much of a problem with supporting it because it says 'in accordance with the geneva convention' and there are few people in this chamber who would be opposed to anything to do with the geneva convention, which we support. just a few words on enlargement. this poses a real challenge. we have to sort out the whole question of asylum, visas and immigration before enlargement takes place but we must not then use the question of enlargement to expect the applicant countries to have higher standards than we ourselves are adopting. many applicant countries are doing very well and their economies and standards of living are approaching those of eu countries. enlargement is not about building a new, more powerful, stronger external frontier. if we have a very successful european union, we must not allow that to create a further division between us and the countries which will then be outside a new, enlarged union of 25 or 27 states. it is about sharing responsibility, about making certain that people have opportunities and rights, and we will be supporting that.
commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to thank the two rapporteurs, mr oostlander and mr von boetticher, for their excellent reports. the first proposal we are discussing today is a proposal for a funding programme to promote cooperation between the national services responsible for implementing community rules in the fields of articles 62 and 63 of the treaty. the argo programme will complement the legislative initiatives already launched or to be launched on the basis of articles 62 and 63 of the treaty. i agree with mrs kaufmann that the programme must be seen in close connection with the legislative acquis, and i hope that we will have a legislative acquis. but it must also be recognised that in areas such as this, european legislation and its national transposition are not sufficient to harmonise practices. there is one very important area, namely the practices adopted by national services when it comes to controlling external borders, issuing visas or dealing with asylum applications and immigration situations. as many of you have pointed out, the argo programme will succeed the odysseus programme. but there are substantial differences which it is better to determine very clearly. first of all, argo is an administrative cooperation programme. it therefore focuses more particularly on the national administrations and departments responsible for the application of the community acquis based on articles 62 and 63 of the treaty. it is wrong to claim that these are only cooperation programmes between police forces, because in the field of asylum and immigration there are very important tasks which fall to the civil administration services of the member states. in this case - and i must emphasize this, because there may be a point of disagreement with mr oostlander - the main actors in the programme are the national administrations. the first task of applying the european legislative acquis will be for the national administrations of the member states. what this programme does not exclude is that the national administrations receiving argo funding may delegate tasks of implementing the programmes concerned to non-governmental organisations which will propose projects and implementation programmes taking into account the objectives of the programme. the legal basis of argo not only sets general objectives but also defines more specific objectives in each of the areas: external borders, visas, asylum, emigration. argo is considering new forms of action such as the definition of best practices, techniques for collecting, analysing and disseminating information, and actions in third countries. i would draw your attention to the fact that in the area of external border control, the schengen acquis has been divided, within the framework of the european union, between important elements falling under the first pillar and also important elements falling under the third pillar. this is where the difficulty lies in distinguishing the community aspect from the intergovernmental cooperation aspect in order to target them properly. in any case, i should like to thank mr oostlander for his support for the commission's proposal and assure him that we can subscribe to the spirit of many of the amendments which are proposed, in particular those aimed at strengthening the role of the community and those aimed at supplementing or strengthening the objectives of administrative cooperation. our priority is that the programme should be adopted by the council as soon as possible so that the commission can start the procedures for implementing the programme this year and properly implement the budget allocated for that year. as regards the second proposal, which concerns the amendment to article 40 of the convention implementing the schengen agreement, proposed by belgium, spain and france, it is intended, as mr von boetticher points out, to give the police of the member states the right, under certain conditions, to continue to exercise discrete surveillance over a person suspected of being involved in an offence for which extradition is required when that person crosses a border. i would like to stress the improvement, in my view, that such an amendment represents for the work of law enforcement services. as the rapporteur has noted, crossborder surveillance is an instrument for maintaining public order and security which has become particularly important since the abolition of common borders between schengen member states. i would also like to stress that the proposed amendment, while facilitating investigations, will not change the legal framework applicable to them, since the national authorities will of course only be able to act in accordance with their own national legislation, as provided for by the schengen convention. i'm sorry, but we're a long way from a totalitarian state. in conclusion, the two initiatives and proposals on the table, on which the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has done a great deal of work, should make very concrete progress in areas which i believe are essential to the area of freedom, security and justice which is gradually being built up.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0081/2002) by mr luís marinho, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council regulation establishing the criteria and mechanisms for determining the member state responsible for examining an application for asylum lodged in one of the member states by a third-country national (com (2001) 447 - c5-0403/2001 - 2001/0182 (cns)).
mr president, part of the answer to that last question would be that, if there was a legal method of entering the uk to claim asylum, a lot of the problems would be solved at sangatte. in dealing with the marinho report before us, however, my group has criticised the dublin convention for a very long time for a number of reasons, not least because to us it mixes immigration controls with the claiming of asylum, and the two things are not necessarily the same at all. we are well aware that people choose a particular member state as their country of destination for a large number of reasons. it may be a country they have heard of. they might have family links there. there may already be a considerable community of people from their own region in the area. the country might have a reputation for dealing fairly with asylum seekers rather than treating them as potential criminals and keeping them restricted. it might offer work opportunities. it might be because of former colonial ties. there might be a language link. there are all sorts of reasons. there is extensive research showing that asylum seekers settle better, enjoy better mental health, acquire the language of the country of residence more quickly – especially the children – if a number of the above conditions apply. but we know that asylum seekers generally want to contribute to the societies that admit them and do not want to feel like unwanted jetsam condemned to live on charity and tolerance. positive motivation, then, is extremely important to a successful asylum policy. for us, dublin seemed to be based on the premise that the first 'safe' country was good enough. it was also based on the premise that the government then had a duty to deal with those asylum seekers and effectively keep them there. we know that there have been all sorts of problems, both administratively and in terms of human rights, as a result of the dublin convention. the new proposals at least recognise the importance of the family, even if the criteria for definition of 'family', does not go far enough; my group has tabled amendments because we do not believe that the nuclear family is the only viable model. however, the proposals are still based on the premise that a member state is somehow answerable to all other member states for their failures to control entry and borders. not surprisingly, countries with extensive sea or land borders close to countries of origin will be the major points of entry and are thus expected to bear the major responsibility for asylum seekers, bailed out presumably by the refugee fund. my group does not agree with this approach which is why we have tabled amendments designed to de-link immigration controls from dealing with asylum applications. if we are really fulfilling the duty that mrs terrón i cusí spoke of and we are creating a high-standard, effective and fair common asylum policy – which sometimes i doubt – then the positive factors determining the country where the application is lodged can only act in an additional positive way. if we are not creating that, then people should have the right to choose where they seek asylum.
mr president, it is certainly necessary to improve the workings of the dublin convention and to transpose it into european community law, with european court and parliament oversight. we must stop the problem of refugees 'in orbit'. asylum seekers are not parcels to be passed around: they are real human beings who may or may not be entitled to humanitarian protection but, in any case, need to be treated with respect and dignity. most will be exhausted, many disorientated, frightened or frail. it bears repeating time after time that the chief responsibilities of member states are to process asylum claims expeditiously, to rapidly integrate those who are accepted and to remove those who are not. this does not mean cutting corners since cases decided sloppily or unfairly risk taking longer in the end because of appeals. this is not, in turn, to challenge the right of claimants to make appeals. one of my group's amendments would make appeals have suspensive effect. if they do not, and the claimant is transferred, they will not be able to keep in contact with the procedure or their lawyer, which is unfair. my group also aims to further strengthen the provisions on family unity. one of our amendments would give greater rights of reunion to unmarried, including same-sex, couples. we are also sympathetic to the amendment from the green group, although i fear that this has less chance than ours. there must be further progress by a convergence of family law developments at national level, and eu immigration and free movement rules, in recognising unmarried partners as family, especially, but not only, those in registered partnerships. i very much hope the socialist group will support the very reasonable eldr position. i understand the motivation of those wanting individual choice of the applicant to be the determinant of where an asylum claim is processed, rather than the state responsible for entry. but, alas, it cannot be feasible until there is a fully functioning common asylum and immigration system in which there are no artificial distortions influencing that choice. it also confuses asylum with immigration. the asylum system is based on urgently needing protection. if it is determined exclusively by choice of destination, we risk ultimately undermining its integrity. this new proposal has a clause which would oblige a member state to take responsibility where it had knowingly tolerated people illegally on its territory for at least two months. this would cover the sangatte centre near calais. i urge the french government to recognise the logic and imperative of this, though i understand they are resisting it in the council. we are going to have to face up sooner rather than later to the need to have an immigration route as well as an asylum route into the eu, as well as tackling the traffickers. but the situation at sangatte cannot be allowed to fester. the centre cannot be closed: that would be inhumane and just displace the problem. but it is disruptive and dangerous and the uk needs to recognise that this is its problem too. there must be a bilateral solution, urgently required, supported by the new dublin ii but reached through pragmatic bilateral agreement.
commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a regulation to replace the dublin convention with an instrument of community law is part, as provided for in article 63 of the treaty, of the package of measures requested in tampere, which includes, in addition to this regulation, three proposals for directives concerning, respectively, the common minimum standards on asylum procedures, the common minimum standards on the reception conditions for asylum seekers, and the criteria for admission to refugee status or subsidiary protection and the content of these statutes. the drafting of the report was preceded by a broad consultation, based on a commission staff working document, with the member states, the united nations high commissioner for refugees and non-governmental organisations. thanks to the excellent work of the rapporteur, mr marinho, whom i congratulate, the european parliament will also be making its contribution to this matter. it is true that if we were to work within a single asylum system, with all its elements harmonized, the most practical solution might be to recognize the responsibility of the state in which the application is lodged. but that's not the case. we are working in a framework where harmonisation is about common minimum standards. it is true that at the present time, with very limited harmonisation, the most pragmatic and effective solution is to recognise that the state responsible for the entry of refugees into the territory of the european union must be the one which decides on the asylum application, in a spirit of solidarity and loyal cooperation. the commission proposal is therefore based on the same principle as the dublin convention. the member state which has played the most important role in the applicant's entry or stay in the territory of the european union is responsible for examining an asylum application, with specific exceptions aimed at protecting the unity of family groups. however, it must be admitted that the dublin convention has not produced the effects expected. we must learn from the past. we have therefore proposed several innovations: new provisions, emphasising the responsibility that a member state assumes towards others by allowing situations of illegal stay to continue on its territory; significantly shorter procedural time limits to contribute to the objective of a rapid processing of asylum applications, in the interest of genuine asylum seekers, and to avoid leaving applicants in uncertainty for too long as to the outcome of their asylum application; extended time limits for the transfer of the persons concerned to the state responsible in order to take account of practical difficulties in enforcement; and new provisions to preserve the unity of asylum seekers' family groups in so far as this is compatible with the objective of a rapid processing of asylum applications. the answer to mr olle schmidt's question is as follows: first, the existence of clear rules on the responsibility of the member state; second, the clarification, added in our proposal, of the level of evidence required for the determination of the states responsible; and finally, rules on the subsidiary liability of the state which is lax. the commission is aware that no system for determining responsibility in asylum matters can claim to be perfect. as mrs sbarbati has rightly noted in her report to the committee on petitions, we have tried to strike a fairly difficult balance between the legitimate interest of the member states in combating the phenomenon of asylum shopping and the multiple applications made by the same individual to stay longer in the territory of the european union and the interest of asylum seekers in having their application examined within a reasonable time and not being permanently separated from their family members, when there is no reasonable reason to prevent their application from being examined in the same member state. the commission can accept the amendments proposed by the rapporteur which, in our opinion, improve the text and make more effective the intentions which inspired the commission in drafting this text. i am sure it will not be surprising if the commission does not support the amendments which are inspired by a different logic, which, however respectable they may be, distort the proposal and contradict the commission's clear choice to have a pragmatic, reasonable and effective text in the shortest possible time.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the next item is the report (doc. (the sitting was closed at 9.25 p.m.)
- the minutes of yesterday's session have been distributed. are there any observations ?
mr president, the minutes are correct but i should like to make a comment. yesterday i was present in strasbourg, and from the moment i arrived i had meetings through till after 9 p.m. i did not, therefore, sign the register in the plenary chamber, so when we look at the minutes my name is not there. some organisations publish details of members' attendances; however this is a classic example of how sometimes when they say that members have not attended the plenary part-sessions it is simply that they have not signed in in the chamber on that day. i should like this put on record. members should bear this in mind when those records are published and it appears that the record of attendance does not correspond to the reality of the situation.
madam president, on a point of order, i should like to ask you to ask the president of parliament to register our complaint to the french government, to the mayor of strasbourg and indeed to air france: some of us were unable to get to the start of the plenary session yesterday because air france cancelled one of the only direct flights from the uk to strasbourg. that meant a lot of us had to fly via nantes and did not arrive until 9 p.m. we were the lucky ones. i understand the president of parliament was also affected. if the french government insists that we meet here for 12 sessions a year – and i have not been one of those complaining about it – please let us get to the plenary session and indeed get home from the plenary session after the votes at 6.30 on thursday evening! it is absolutely ridiculous that members of the european parliament cannot take part in debates. i was due to speak in one of those debates yesterday, as i know other people were. would the president please contact the officials and ask them to do something about it? (applause)
rapporteur. – madam president, with that long list you make it sound as though i have been extremely busy. i would like to concentrate on those institutions that you have just mentioned. the exercise, of course, considers the expenditure, and assesses the effective use of european taxpayers' money relating to those institutions. there is also reference in this report to the council, which i will touch on later. generally speaking there were no great concerns relating to the court of justice although we will clearly be following up some of the requests we have made to it on more detailed issues. we grant discharge to the court of justice. the court of auditors seems still reluctant to name member states found wanting, and i warn the court again that we will not rest until this request is complied with. more consumer-friendly reports would be welcome, as would a declaration of interests by the court on the internet, as is currently carried out by most of the other institutions. the court must never feel itself to be too grand to conform to the standards we have learned to expect from other high-profile public servants. we grant discharge to the court of auditors, however. the new ombudsman budget is very small, so any money not spent will perhaps be disproportionally reflected in percentage figures, but it is something that the budget committee needs to keep an eye on when they are setting the ombudsman's budget. we grant discharge to the ombudsman. the committee of the regions is also a relative newcomer to the european scene. it is good to see some shared expenditure with the economic and social committee although at times this does not go far enough. a future report by the committee on budgetary control may perhaps examine the value for money and impact assessment of this institution. both the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions performed quite well in relation to the belliard and montoyer buildings and played quite a good game with the poor set of cards that were dealt to them unfairly by parliament. we grant discharge to the committee of the regions. i turn now to the area where the report's focus lies, and that is on the economic and social committee: a committee which has been in existence since the beginning of this great project. whilst the report recognises the economic and social committee can act as a forum for interest groups which would otherwise not be able to make their voices heard in the eu context, developments over recent years – including, for example, the social protocol – must now be considered. do we see some duplication here for example? we have concerns that the information does not filter down to the grass roots. the massive costs of financing this institution, which will reach almost eur 100 million after enlargement, also gives us great concerns. even amongst some trade unions, which are recognised by and which use the institution, there is criticism. one prominent british trade union was prepared to say 'that the economic and social committee appears to be redundant; we would be content for it to be abolished'. another worrying aspect of the esc came in their reaction to this report which claimed that the concept of value for money of a body established by the european treaties is highly questionable and politically unjustifiable. try telling that to the taxpayers of europe! i think it is pretty obvious, when you see reactions like that, there is not much accountability going on within the economic and social committee. the budgetary control committee is recommending that discharge be refused to the economic and social committee for the years 1996 and 1997. this is a historic move and it is not taken lightly. only on two occasions before has the discharge been refused; once of course which led to the forced resignation of the commission in 1999. it may perhaps seem strange that we have waited until now to assess the accounts and expenditure for 1996. however, it has taken until now to receive objective clarification on irregularities relating to payments of members' travel allowances. the whole sequence of events from the fraud itself involving 59 members of the economic and social committee amounting to over eur 1 million, to the scandalously relaxed attitude of economic and social committee managers and their efforts to cover up the problem, to the botched and unprofessional approach of olaf, the european fraud office, all reeks of incompetence, procrastination and amateurism. it has taken six years to get to the bottom of this fraud that occurred in 1996. this situation is a disgrace. it has meant that there has been no chance of prosecuting those involved, as the courts have said that too much time has elapsed. there have been improvements since then however, which is why we do grant discharge to the economic and social committee for 1998, 1999 and 2000. it is important that the convention on the future of europe should take heed of the message in this report. i turn finally very briefly to the council. traditionally we have lumped this together with the commission expenditure. this year, however, the court of auditors has prepared a critical report on the workings of the common foreign and security policy. this again is a fairly new area for the council. the committee on budgetary control has asked for answers and clarification on some of the issues on which the court of auditors has concerns. the council is discussing that this morning, so we are waiting for the results from the council before we take a vote on this. i hope you will bear that in mind when it comes to the vote. i hope that the economic and social committee will deal with the fact that we have not given them discharge with the gravity that this issue deserves. (applause)
the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has been working. the european union spent €82 billion in 2000. these were hundreds of thousands of different payments, payments to researchers, research institutes, scholarship payments, premiums to farmers for cattle or land set-aside, food aid to refugees, payments for the provision of building materials in kosovo or the fight against aids in africa, subsidies for the expansion of rail networks in the eu, for the construction of industrial parks, etc. i could go on and on. this shows how heterogeneous and diverse the tasks of the european union are, and the financial resources that flow into them. it also shows how different the requirements for sound financial management and correct control are. in addition, as mr mccartin has emphasized, only a small part of the administrative responsibility is concentrated in the commission, and in the rest of the member states there are thousands of paying agencies for agricultural expenditure and hundreds of ministries and authorities in the member states responsible for implementation, that is, for receiving, examining and approving applications for aid. your report, mr mccartin, on discharge for the implementation of the 2000 budget reflects this wide range of commission activities, the specific risks and sources of error, the measures needed and, of course, the shortcomings in budget implementation. it is a very comprehensive report indeed, and the commission would like to thank you very much for this very balanced report. i would also like to thank you very much for your speech and for your commitment to the committee on budgetary control. the commission welcomes the fact that the committee on budgetary control recommends the discharge of the commission for the 2000 budget by such a large majority. the report and the resolution are far from being a pillow for the commission. 144 requirements to the commission from the submission of reports on the adoption of administrative measures to the amendment of laws are included in the report. i cannot, of course, go into all these requirements now, but i would like to highlight a few. i would like to begin by thanking you, mr blak, on behalf of the commission, for your work on the development fund and for the recommendation on discharge, which, in accordance with your tradition, which i hold very dear, is accompanied by many demands. mr seppänen, you are playing a historic role as rapporteur for the ecsc budget, and i should also like to thank mrs morgan and mr virrankoski. the commission's report is a report on the implementation of the budget of the other institutions, but it is an element of the european budget as a whole. i would like to return to your report, mr staes, which the commission very much welcomes. the commission thanks the chairman of the committee on budgetary control, mrs theato, for the good management of the whole discharge debate and, of course, the secretariat and the committee as a whole for the hard work. the budgetary outcome for the year 2000, which was very critical of the committee on budgetary control, was the large budget surplus of eur 11.6 billion, which was, however, very much welcomed by the member states' finance ministers. i have nothing to add to mr mccartin's statement on the positive development on the revenue side. it is, of course, simply welcome when growth rates are higher than initially expected. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this does not apply to agricultural expenditure or administrative expenditure, where lower expenditure than estimated means actual savings. the structural funds, on the other hand, are deferred. in fact, all the necessary regulations could not be adopted in time because the agenda decisions were taken so late in 1999. this too has been stated by mr mccartin. but we still have a poor implementation of the programme in 2002. the consequences of this must therefore be drawn for the next period of aid and cannot be left unchanged for the present period of aid. as for the european development fund, mr blak pointed out that in 2000 substantially more funds were actually implemented than in the previous year, so we have a positive development here. in view of the enormous need in many acp countries, it is also clear that the failure to use up resources is not a question of lack of need but often of lack of concrete projects. the commission has now begun to grant some more subsidies to the budgets of these countries, which is right on the one hand, but which also requires new approaches to control. as regards the transmission of information in the discharge procedure, i would like to point out once again that the commission always posts immediately on the internet evaluation reports for the various programmes and budget lines and that the figures for the implementation of the current budget are also sent weekly by electronic means to the committee on budgetary control. the commission is convinced that the agreement with parliament on the transfer of confidential information has proved its worth. but i must point out again that both the commission's reports and olaf's reports are subject to the rules on data protection and the protection of the secrecy of investigations. at the request of the committee on budgetary control, the commission also further disaggregated the member states' reports on errors and recoveries in the area of the structural funds. reporting has increased due to increased controls, but member states still often do not control to the required extent. mr mccartin, you have made a critical note of this in your report. i share the criticism. it is very doubtful, however, that the federally structured member states will be able to accept the suggestion, as suggested in the report, that they must change their distribution of powers for controls with regard to european funds, especially since this is often constitutionally enshrined. so this is really a very serious question. a major topic of discussion in this discharge procedure was and is the methodology of the european court of auditors which it uses to decide whether or not to issue a statement of assurance. the commission welcomes the willingness of the european court of auditors to discuss proposals for a revised approach to the creation of verifiable and comparable indicators for financial management. the report on the commission's budget, like mrs morgan's report, calls for the determination of error rates per directorate-general. the court of auditors has already clarified that this is not in line with its current method of sampling, as it would require significantly more samples than the court of auditors can collect. but i would point out that the reform of the commission has introduced new standards for controls and that the directorates-general now have to report on this in their annual activity reports, i.e. what standards have been met and how. we shall examine with the court of auditors what contributions can be drawn from these activity reports and the declarations of the directorate-general for the identification of such indicators which can then be compared over time. in your report, mr staes, on the discharge of the director of the european agency for the reconstruction of kosovo, you support the positive judgment of the court of auditors. i am drawing this out for several reasons. firstly, because the experience of the agency for reconstruction shows that the way to do this is to decentralize responsibility, to make more decisions on the ground. i am also drawing attention to the fact that some press reports have suggested that there are already accusations of mismanagement in the energy sector. you have made it clear once again that this is not the case, but that the situation is still unsatisfactory. they also described the situation in 2000, which was absolutely desolate, both in relation to this power plant and in relation to the fact that, as elsewhere in the former eastern bloc, electricity bills were not being paid. the fact that the ownership of the power plant was unclear, which prevented privatisation, and that the plant was of enormous importance for the preservation of jobs is also of course an important point. this too had to be taken into account in this very delicate, politically unstable situation, but of course further development is necessary here. i am very pleased that the court of auditors has carried out a very early and thorough examination of the kosovo reconstruction agency. you were there yourself. the court of auditors' audit is very positive overall. this is essential because the work in the balkans, the work in kosovo, will be of great importance not only for foreign policy but also for budgetary policy in the coming years. i would like to make a brief comment on the remarks and the request on the agricultural sector, and in particular on agricultural export refunds. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this also shows that the climate between the committee on budgetary control and the commission has changed positively towards direct, critical but constructive cooperation. it is not only my own view but also that of most citizens that parliament is now calling for decisions to reduce the transport of live animals, which is often done only to obtain export refunds. i hope that this plenary session will bring the discharge procedure for the 2000 budget to a conclusion. at the same time, work is under way on the 2003 budget. this is likely to be the last budget for an eu of 15 member states. the enlargement of the union will make the budget once again more complex, once again more diverse. the commission will use the time until then to assist the candidate countries in preparing for enlargement, in preparing for participation in the european funds, it will monitor the implementation of the necessary measures and it will itself continue to reform its administrative procedures. this requires some encouragement from parliament, but above all cooperation between parliament and the commission. i would like to thank the commission for the cooperation it has shown in recent months and, in the words of an old footballing proverb, i would like to say that the commission is well aware that after discharge there is always another discharge. (applause from the centre)
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. – madam president, for the committee on foreign affairs there are two key issues in this discharge: transparency and implementation. on transparency, i had an interesting time when i asked parliament's officials if they could let me have a list of what the commission had done on the 2000 budget in relation to those items to which parliament had adopted amendments to the budget, in terms of both amounts of money and also remarks. i was told that, even if it were possible, it would take several months to find this information. that is totally ridiculous because, if parliament adopts amendments to the budget, it is elementary that there should be a mechanism to follow up on those amendments to know exactly what has happened. the fault lies in part with parliament, because we do not scrutinise and follow up the budget as we should. i do not blame the committee on budgetary control but the individual committees which do not often take that responsibility. the fault also lies with the commission because we need greater clarity of information in order to analyse budget implementation. there should be much better dialogue between parliament and the commission to identify very clearly what action has been taken on european parliament priorities. i suspect the commission far too often simply ignores what parliament amends in the budget. we need to be able to indicate that. on the common foreign and security policy, we need greater clarity: we are not clear on who does what. that is why i support the idea of an interinstitutional agreement setting out exactly the commission's role in the cfsp. on implementation, there was for the 2000 budget again a very high concentration of commitments at the end of the year for latin america, asia and so on. the imbalance between commitments and payments continues to give cause for concern, as indeed do the remarks of the court of the auditors in relation to the tacis programme. i recognise the improvements the commission has made – in particular the use of the website to provide information – but we have to focus on transparency and implementation.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy. – madam president, our committee covers 120 budget lines, some very large indeed, including the research programmes tacis, phare and meda. the implementation of those lines has been heavily criticised in the past. my first point is about the expenditure in 2000 of the synergy programme, which is a programme to further international cooperation in the energy sector, and one strongly supported by the european parliament. i am sure you can imagine, commissioner, our astonishment and dismay when the commission abandoned this programme in the year 2000, cancelled a call for tenders already published, causing huge inconvenience, and proceeded to spend no money at all throughout the year 2000. i cannot emphasise strongly enough that this is unacceptable behaviour and that the relevant commissioner is well aware of our views. i am pleased to say that remedial action has been taken and we look forward to an enhanced programme in this very important sector. i turn now to the tacis programme on nuclear safety in the former soviet union. this has regularly been severely – and rightly – criticised in the past. it is work which is carried out in difficult conditions, in an area where slackness and inefficiency in the implementation of budgets was traditional. we note with pleasure a marked improvement and look forward to reassurance about the safety of nuclear installations in the former soviet union. i would like to thank colleagues from the committee on budgetary control for their cooperation in helping us to undertake the very important work of scrutiny on which our committee, could spend all its time on if we wished to.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy. – madam president, first of all could i put on record my thanks to mr bowe who was the budget rapporteur for the committee on the environment for the first half of the mandate. the general approach to the discharge procedure is to look at the percentage of the budget line that is spent. if 95% or more is spent then a tick is put beside that item. if less than 80% is spent there is a black mark. but if we have the information at our disposal we should look more carefully at the achievement of goals with this money, rather than purely the fact that the money has been spent. for example, on the fifth environment action plan only 70% of the budget was spent. the reason for this is that there were not sufficient good projects; in fact some calls had no response at all. we should not give money to bad projects. however, there is one slight caveat to that: i hope our bidding systems are not becoming so bureaucratic that some potential bidders with good projects are put off from bidding at all. i will mention public health budget line b3-4301 on combating cancer. in 1999 there was a substantial under-spend on that and i am pleased to see that in 2000 it was almost fully committed including the overhang from 1999. it would be verging on the criminal not to deploy resources allocated for combating diseases such as cancer. it is true that the environment budget of eur 200 million – that is gbp 125 million – was only half spent in the year 2000. the reason for this was the life projects, which make up half this budget, and which could not be spent in 2000 because the legal basis was not determined in conciliation until july 2000. i am pleased to see that the five-year project has been telescoped into a four-year project instead. despite the substantial under spending in the budget that is largely due to the life iii lines, and bearing in mind that the court of auditors have not voiced concerns, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy recommends that discharge be granted in respect of the 2000 budget for the budget lines within its competence.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism. – madam president, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, i thank the rapporteur, mr mccartin for his report and efforts and, in particular, for the way in which he highlighted the major concern of my committee, namely the slow rate of implementation of the community's structural funds. as he so rightly highlighted, that is the bulk of the problem in terms of the surplus that this parliament is addressing. the question to which my committee failed to receive a satisfactory answer from the commission, was why do we allow such a situation to develop in the first place? it was predictable that in the first year of the structural fund programmes rates of implementation would be very low. yet we were faced with wholly unrealistic budget forecast expectations and scenarios which, by definition, could not be fulfilled. so we are dealing with a situation where, in many areas, there has been almost no expenditure whatsoever under certain budget lines for the community's structural funds. we believe this makes it much more difficult for this parliament and my committee to scrutinise the budget adequately and rigorously. as a regular item on our committee agenda, we have now decided to focus on budget scrutiny and, at each discussion, we invite the commission and the council to participate with us in a thorough review of expenditure within the structural fund area. but that job is made very difficult by these wholly unrealistic budgets. the commissioner must explain how we are expected properly to evaluate a budget which is in itself extremely questionable. our second concern really relates to the second point the rapporteur made in his opening remarks – the way in which the structural funds are currently managed. we share his concern that the regulations are overly complex and make our job, as a parliament, of scrutinising the budget very difficult. so we have a double problem there. many organisations, individuals, groups, associations and communities that are eligible for structural funds fail to receive their fair share because of the over-complexity of the application process. we, as a parliament – and the other authorities charged with monitoring budgetary expenditure – have a problem in that we cannot adequately monitor expenditure to ensure value for money. my final point concerns the trans-european networks. we reiterate our view that the commission is right to focus on fewer projects but we oppose the fact that the commission is now planning to make a eur 60 billion addition to the trans-european network transport budget line. we invite the commission to comment on how they can ensure value for money when they are planning such a massive increase in expenditure.
mr president, i too should like to congratulate all the rapporteurs, especially mr mccartin, who has taken a reasonable amount of flak from me. i should also like to congratulate mrs morgan on her discharge report. i was not in the chamber when she made her comments about ecosoc, but i am sure she is now with me in calling for this organisation not only not to get discharge but actually to be disbanded because it is a waste of money. my primary job here on behalf of my group is to talk about the staes and seppänen discharges. this is very easy because they are two very good reports written by two very good parliamentarians. regarding the mccartin report, i want to put on record, especially for people in the public gallery, some of the simple facts which we should be talking about. there is still no positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. this is the seventh year running. there probably never will be one because they have got themselves into a very tight corner now. how can they give discharge to an organisation where 5% or more of the budget is lost through fraud, mismanagement or waste and 14% of the budget, at least, is running as a surplus? nearly 20% of the budget is not spent correctly, as we would like it to be. this is not a record to be proud of. the discharge report by mr mccartin contains a number of quite scathing points and highlights ongoing problems within the commission. and yet mr mccartin comes to the conclusion that he should recommend discharge. quite correctly, he notes that the majority of the eu's budget is administered in the member states. however this does not absolve the commission of final responsibility and accountability. the buck stops with the commission. it is its responsibility, as stated in article 274, to implement and oversee the community's budget. once again this is a year in which it has failed to manage and control the community's budget properly. my party's representatives in this house were elected on a whole host of pledges, the main one being to sort out the accounts of the european commission and other european institutions and make sure that the reform process that most people in this house are pleased to see going forward is actually driven through and achieves results. as much money is now being lost through fraud and mismanagement of funds in the 2000 budget as when we made the pledge in 1999 to try and sort this out. john wiggins, a former member of the european court of auditors, is quoted in a british newspaper saying that the situation in the commission is unchanged. things have got to change. the european parliament's legal services wrote a note to the budgetary control committee on 5 november 2001 giving an opinion on whether not granting discharge should lead to the fall of the commission. it states that undoubtedly refusal to grant discharge is the expression of serious political sanctioning of the commission. its legal effect, however, is not such as to compel the commission to resign. that is covered by a special procedure laid down in article 141 of the ec treaty. in voting not to give discharge to the commission, we are actually making sure that the commission knows firstly, that we do not want it to resign and, secondly, that we want it to sort the problems out. if nothing has changed by this time next year, if there is still no positive statement of assurance, if there is still 5% and more waste, mismanagement, fraud and disappearing money, and if there is still a huge budget surplus, then we will be getting to the stage where we will have to say to the people in the public gallery and the people who put us here that nothing has changed in the european commission, the reform process is still ongoing – and is the slowest process ever – and we have failed in one of our core tasks which was to sort these problems out in the first place. that is not a record to be proud of and not something i am prepared to stand before my constituents and say.
mr president, i would like to begin by congratulating our rapporteur, mr schmitt, on his report which now brings a sensible compromise to the original commission proposal. it is fair to say that all of us in this house would have fully supported the creation of a pan-european body dealing specifically with the certification of aeronautical products, which is eminently sensible and which i fully support. however, my own view was that the scope of the original commission proposal was too broad and there were a considerable number of concerns regarding the issues of sovereignty, the regulatory framework and in particular the autonomy of the proposed agency. it must be emphasised that, as with national civil aviation authorities which quite clearly deal solely with safety matters, this agency should not be drawn into dealing with other aspects, such as environmental and competition issues. in addition, i would expect it to work along similar lines to those of national civil aviation authorities whose responsibilities are as independent regulators. although i received a comprehensive response from the commission regarding the future of the national caas, their role still needs to be further clarified in terms of their future scope and remit. it should also be emphasised that efforts should continue to be concentrated on achieving uniform applicability of icao, jaa and eurocontrol standards that are already in existence. the safety agency should not seek to parallel and create unwilling distortions of the current icao-based safety framework. finally, as we would expect independent experts to run this agency, it would not be in anyone's interests should there be undue political or commission interference, thereby potentially rendering the issue of safety a secondary factor.
- we ask the linguistic services to correct the text in the sense indicated by the rapporteur. i now ask the commission to state its position on the amendments.
the commission is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. that is to say, we accept all the amendments except no 29. we hope that we will be able to maintain the interinstitutional agreement which will enable us to approve the european aviation safety agency at this time.
mr president, before we vote on this particular report, i think that it is important that members are aware of the legal advice given by our own legal services, which was not available when we voted in committee. this makes it quite clear that certain aspects of this report fall outside the scope of the community's responsibilities referred to in article 175. the good news is that voting for amendment 28 will solve all those problems.
in writing. - i fully support the initiative to deal more effectively with the problems of pollution that are still being suffered. indeed, calls to allow member states to treat violations of eu environmental legislation as criminal offences will send a strong and positive signal that the eu is a serious player in the environmental field. by listing environmental offences and the corresponding penalties, the commission's proposal for a directive provides concrete instruments which will enable member states to implement environmental legislation in a symmetrical way, whereas at present eu environmental policy is applied in an ad hoc and asymmetrical way. finally, by adopting this directive, the eu will reinforce and consolidate the explicit signal it gave when the kyoto protocol was signed, namely that it is a responsible and crucial global player in the field of the environment.
mr president, i proposed two amendments to this report. one – amendment no 20 – unfortunately failed to get through. i am pleased that amendment no 21 did. the first amendment was to make sure that national information centres or relevant authorities or police forces, if offered information, would agree to their use in legal proceedings in the member state where the football fan was arrested. i tabled this because mark forrester, my constituent, was convicted in belgium after the euro 2000 match, even though the british intelligence service offered video evidence to the belgian authorities showing him walking away from the problems and the violence. that is why i tabled this amendment and indeed voted for it. unfortunately the belgian authorities refused to use that. i was hoping that this report would lay down a marker to say that the authorities ought to be able to use information given by national information centres to other member states. that would allow us to clamp down on real football hooligans; football fans who are innocent would not be caught in a trap.
in writing. - because of air france's incompetence, i did not arrive in time to strasbourg to speak last night in the debate on international football issues, as scheduled, and i thank my colleague neil maccormick for taking my place. for years the scourge of violence - often organized violence - has been rampant in international football. initiatives to strengthen cooperation between authorities in different member states are welcome as crucial instruments in the fight against hooliganism. i voted in favour of the amendments tabled by the members of the european free alliance, drawing attention to the fact that in at least one member state there is more than one national football team. my own country, for example, is represented by an international team, despite the fact that scotland is not yet an independent member state, and scottish supporters have enjoyed an unrivalled reputation for years with their good behaviour and good cheer. my group's amendments recognise the different footballing histories of scotland, wales, northern ireland and england, and simply recognise the reality that the united kingdom does not have a single 'national' team.
in writing. - i give my full support to the initiative to create a european network of permanent national football information points. such a solution to the problems of football-related crime and unrest is sensible, feasible and long overdue. until recently, member states were virtually isolated in their efforts to combat these problems. cooperation in this area is a positive way of limiting the negative influence of a small number of hooligans on the sport. in order to ensure the closest possible cooperation, there must be an exchange of personal data on the small number of individuals who pose a threat to security. it does not threaten privacy, but it does represent an improvement in security at football matches.
in writing. - my colleagues in the labour party and i voted in favour of amendments nos 13 and 14 to rule 20 and amendment no 15 to rule 21 of the marinho report. the amendments ensure that decisions on the transfer of asylum seekers will have suspensive effects. in the absence of this right, asylum seekers could be moved from one member state to another, pending the outcome of their appeal.
in writing. - today i voted against the report by mr marinho on the proposal for a council regulation laying down the criteria for determining the member state responsible for examining an application for asylum by a third-country national. i firmly believe that the united kingdom, as an island, occupies a unique position within the eu. we have always been responsible for our own policy-making process on asylum applications and illegal immigrants and we should continue to be. the fact that the geneva convention is being ignored, as is the case every day now, is shameful. when this council regulation is imposed, if it is, will it improve the situation, or will france continue to be a puppet of its illegal immigrants?
mr president, commissioner patten challenged us to justify to our electorate a demand for an increase in defence expenditure. he is right to suggest that it would not be very popular. however, what we can have is much more efficient and effective defence expenditure. in kosovo we learned that while we spend 60% of what the americans spend, we only get 10% of their power projection. i, as a taxpayer, would like to know what are we spending our money on in that case. the answer to that is: waste, inefficiency and duplication, and that is the issue we have to address. it is the commission's job to drive that forward. in the 1996 and 1997 communications the commission seemed to be willing to do that. but where the santer commission was prepared to go where angels feared to tread, this commission has been cowering behind its barricades, frightened to take on the member states on this issue and, in so doing, failing in its responsibilities to defend the treaties. could commissioner liikanen confirm for me that the court of justice decisions c-70/94 and c-83/94 give the commission the power to challenge member states on their interpretation of article 296, which they have taken as a carte blanche, which is not what the treaty of rome intends? we want the commission to move forward. i welcome what commissioner liikanen has said, but i want to see more rapid progress. we cannot send our troops into action unless we have the capability to support them. as george robertson has said, being ready for battle is like pregnancy: you either are or you are not! you cannot proceed on the basis, as the spanish defence minister has said, that we are addressing a third of our capability requirements. why only a third? we have to address them all if we are serious about a european defence identity. so i want to see this agenda being driven forward. we need somebody with responsibility. in football terms, we need a roy keane to move this agenda forward to ensure that we have the capabilities we need.
mr president, i thank the minister for his extremely interesting speech and for his support for the setting up of a council of ministers within a defence formation. what puzzles me is what exactly is the status of the draft agreement brokered between britain, the us and turkey, between the european union and the non-european union nato european members? despite the fact that the draft agreement remains fairly secretive, i read it with great care. it seems to me that it represents faithfully the conclusions of the nice european council, that the security interests not only of the european union but also of turkey should be guaranteed by the operation of the rapid reaction force. the draft agreement allows for the council to decide to invite turkey to play a part where nato facilities are not required. that does not seem to me to represent a threat to the autonomy of the european union. i should be most grateful for a clear explanation of precisely what the problem is inside the council.
mr president, the principle of european cooperation in defence procurement is well established. i have witnessed many projects in my own region, such as the tornado, eurofighter, even airbus and its derivatives. indeed, for a time, i was minister responsible for aerospace and therefore for airbus, so i am one of those who is very keen that the a400m flies as soon as possible. the north-west of england has many deep and longstanding commitments in all its industry to working alongside skilled and professional colleagues throughout the european union. they have hopes of participating in the future, for example, in the galileo project, whether or not it has a defence role. the defence industrial base is hugely important to the union. for strategic military reasons of course but also for the advanced technology which can often be put to civilian use and for the contribution to local communities in terms of jobs, infrastructure and profit. but there is wastage. there are cost over-runs, gold-plating, extra-contractual obligations – bribes, in english – and a lot more. to use military jargon: there should be a c3 for defence industries: cooperation, coordination and cost control. i and many of my colleagues in the british conservative group have concerns about the edsp in principle. for example, what is the control and restraint on arms exports going to do to the sovereign rights of member states? what exactly is the european armament agency going to do? why should absolute priority be given to fulfilling the capabilities requirement of the edsp? but generally these objectives are to be welcomed and, with a little finessing, i am sure can work. i support those broad objectives.
mr president, this week we are debating military conflicts in two places: chechnya and palestine. both have worsened since the western world declared war on terrorism. it seems almost as if the dominant power in each conflict has taken advantage of the anti-terrorist cause to enhance its strategic position. the impact on the lives of those caught in the crossfire, both literally and metaphorically, has been devastating. for reasons of history, humanity and security, we have a duty to intervene to prevent the fighting. diplomacy, thus far, has failed, whether sponsored by the united nations, the united states of america, the european union or the neighbouring states. it is probably the saudi peace plan which currently offers the most promising pointers to peace. the warring parties themselves offer little hope of a solution. neither mr sharon nor mr arafat can secure peace, just as certainly as neither can impose it. mr arafat's record of involvement in terrorism and his continued acquiescence in abominable palestinian terrorist acts are at least in part to blame for the current situation. the best way forward, in the view of liberal democrats in this house, is to establish an immediate embargo on arms exports to israel and palestine, and to persuade the united nations to mount an international mission to send troops to the region to enforce peace. (applause)only then might the extremists be moved aside and the moderates be brought together by an honest broker in a political process in which the arguments of force give way to the force of arguments. reckless military adventurism on one side and cynical acceptance of terrorism on the other offer only further bloodshed and misery and the deepening of mutual hatreds, which will delay and render more difficult the achievement of lasting peace. the recent israeli military incursions into palestinian territory have been as shocking as they have been self-defeating. the west does have levers of pressure. you, mr solana, must employ them. an urgent meeting of the eu-israel association council should be called. on the agenda you should have israel's refusal to allow our representatives to meet mr arafat; you should have its wanton destruction of eu-funded infrastructure and its violation of human rights provisions in article no 2 of the association agreement. you might talk to colin powell tomorrow about threatening suspension of usd 3 billion of aid annually to israel. human rights observers should be deployed to document the plight of innocent palestinian citizens, who suffer daily disrupted lives, random harassment, gratuitous humiliation and, in some cases, torture and death. the international community is clear on where the borders must be drawn to secure the co-existence in two states of six million israeli and some 4 million palestinian citizens. we cannot stand by while united nations resolutions are flouted by an aggressive policy of settlements and a refusal to seek peace. when international law is so blatantly ignored, such bloodshed, as we have seen, is unavoidable. those responsible must, eventually, be brought to justice. on thursday of this week, the statute for a permanent international criminal court will enter into force. from sabra and chatila 20 years ago, to what is happening in jenin this afternoon, mr sharon might reflect on whether he wishes to be among its first clients. (applause)
mr president, i met both shimon peres and yasser arafat in the middle east last summer. the situation was desperate then. there was a vicious circle of terrible violence but at the same time the recent knowledge that the ingredients for a solution had been on the table at camp david and taba. since then the security situation has deteriorated catastrophically. terrorist extremists have committed the most vile acts and deliberately incited the emotions, prejudices, ignorance and anxieties of vulnerable peoples, particularly among the islamic communities, and aroused the deepest fears among the israelis. we should remember the strategic vulnerability of israel, a tiny country whose people have been subjected to the most terrible terrorist attacks, at once unpredictable and random while organised and planned in order to have the most cruel and devastating effect. i think of the israeli mother who would not let her small children travel on the same school bus in case they should all be lost. i think of the parents of those teenagers and others murdered or maimed in countless terrorist suicide bomb attacks. there is no moral or political justification for such horrendous acts. but i hold no brief for ariel sharon. in fact i am baffled and dismayed by his approach. on the one hand he has called for the palestine authority to bear down on the terrorists in its midst but on the other he has crippled those very agencies which have the capacity to take such action. he has wanted to change the attitude of the arab peoples to israel, but by his own actions has helped stimulate primeval hatred in yet another generation of palestinians and fuelled the martyr culture. we must recognise the desperate plight of the palestinian people, so many of them abandoned by their arab brethren in refugee camps for generations, prey to extremists, so often lacking the quality of leadership at crucial moments that would help release them from their misery. these are the raw ingredients that we have to work with. at this stage the european union should not be self-interested, trying to promote some role for itself, but balanced, positive and constructive. it would certainly not be helpful for the eu to take one side in this matter by some policy of sanctions against israel, for example. this would merely give comfort to extremists and sharpen the differences with the united states. what is needed now is a bold, generous, urgent international initiative with the european countries, the united states, russia and well-meaning arab states, speaking with one voice. we need to come together with a clear offer of massive international assistance. there are other darker forces waiting in the wings of this conflict. time is running out.
mr president, we are taking action as a parliament, as a european union, to make our seas safer because of tragic events like the loss of the herald of free enterprise, the scandinavian star, the estonia and, most recently, the erika. we are putting in place a series of measures to ensure events like that can never happen again. we save lives and we protect the marine environment. i therefore applaud the commission and the commissioner for her commitment to improving the safety of our seas and the council for its willingness to codecide with parliament. in particular i pay tribute to the rapporteur for his determination both to strengthen and clarify an already good proposal. the three key elements are monitoring and information, transponders on every ship and monitoring by every maritime authority, an essential component of our package of measures – the erika package. this will ensure that there is no hiding place for substandard ships, that all ships will be watched and monitored and that they will not escape compliance with their international obligations. that is our message to substandard ships and the flags of convenience. secondly, the proposal dovetails with my own report on port state control. in particular the black box voyage-data recorder. as the rapporteur has said, this will enable us not just to learn from lessons but prevent problems occurring in the first place. we are giving real help to ships in distress to ensure that they are properly handled in emergency situations, closing a loophole in the safety chain. i, like the rapporteur, want to ensure that this and other erika measures are complied with. this perhaps is the greatest challenge we face as a community. we want to ensure all this new legislation, worthy though it is, is complied with not just by the ship operators but also by the member states themselves who, sadly, over the years, have shown a reluctance to adhere to community law. i hope that the erika rapporteurs together can meet the commissioner soon to help bring forward proposals as to how best parliament can ensure that member states comply with their toughened obligations. finally, i hope our amendments can be accepted in full in order to avoid codecision and to ensure this legislation, which will do so much to make our seas safer, comes on to the statute book at the earliest possible opportunity.
mr president, like everybody else here, i enormously appreciate the work which mrs palacio vallelersundi did as rapporteur, partly because we appreciated so much her work as chair of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. i agree very much with the three points she wanted us to focus on, although on one i take a different view. we are all agreed about the importance of preserving a role for national offices. on the second point about jurisdiction, it seems to many of us to have been a part of the genius of the development of the european community that justice was largely decentralised and that the role of the community courts in matters particularly of private law and commercial law was an advisory or secondary role, with the main jurisdictions being localised. that is a vitally important principle to keep – if it can be done without destroying the patent regime. as mr lehne said, there are wrong roads that we could go down that would end up with a dispersal of community jurisdictions and parallel jurisdictions between the national systems and the community system. that would be a great pity. so i hope that the jurisdictional proposals will be accepted. then there is the language regime, a question on which i differ, with great respect for mrs palacio vallelersundi, and so does my group. we believe that sustaining the existing system inside the european patent office is important. on the other hand, we also believe that people should be able to put forward a patent claim in their own language. we then believe that it should be translated into all the other languages – not the whole process but just, as it says in amendment no 20(c), "issued in the language of submission and in the official language in which the procedure has been carried out, accompanied by translation of the patent claims and of a short abstract in the other official languages of the community", and then paragraph (d), "translations shall be performed by the translation centre for the bodies of the european union and costs borne by the european union". preserving the principle of linguistic equality is an important public good of the european union. the union should pay for that. it should not become a cost to patent holders. therefore the objections about over-pricing the european patent would not apply.
mr president, i, like other colleagues in the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, would like to congratulate our ex-chairman mrs palacio vallelersundi, on all her work on this dossier. it has been a real labour of hercules but, despite that, i fear she has not, in the view of the british conservatives, been able satisfactorily to resolve the issues that have been so vigorously debated in the legal affairs committee. however, i should emphasise that i do not think that is any reflection on her. rather it seems to me that, as has already been mentioned by a number of other speakers, there has been a series of real conundrums – serious issues – at the heart of this proposal. in particular, it indicates the more or less complete impossibility of reconciling our language policy with the needs of those who use and work with patents. i suspect that in microcosm this may be one of a much larger series of problems that we shall be experiencing in the union in the not-too-distant future. in my view, there is no point in having a community patent, which could be a very useful development in intellectual property law, if those who use and work with patents find it no help. i am told by industry that the commission's proposals could be helpful but what parliament is proposing will not be. since this is not a codecision matter, the best thing parliament can do is to give an opinion as required and then leave matters to the council to see if it can succeed where we have failed. i am the first to confess that i do not think this is a very glorious suggestion but it is a pragmatic one. i believe it is the correct course of action in the circumstance in which we now find ourselves. finally, just like my colleague mr lehne, i have another meeting and i hope you will bestow your blessing on my leaving as you did on his.
mr president, i too would like to thank our rapporteur, mrs palacio vallelersundi, for her excellent report and, more importantly, her consistent and energetic efforts to achieve a consensus on the community patent in the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. it is those kinds of skills that we sorely miss now that she is ex-chairman of the committee on legal affairs. her efforts, i have to say, have sadly not been helped by the failure of the council to achieve an outcome in this area and, indeed, an unanimous agreement. it is clear that we need a community patent and that it is a key element in underpinning the lisbon agenda of encouraging eu innovation and competitiveness. but the system, as lord inglewood has said, has to be attractive to industry and business otherwise it will simply be an irrelevance. industry has given the member states, the commission and parliament a very clear message: it wants consistent judgments under community jurisdiction and a common jurisprudence, in particular regarding enforcement. in particular they want a cheap and user-friendly regime. if smes and especially inventors are to derive any benefit from this community patent, what they do not want is a convoluted system which will tie them up in paperwork and red tape. i illustrate this problem with the experience of one of my constituents, john hamson, an engineer and inventor who cannot afford to employ expensive patent agents. he has a uk patent. he cites to me in letters his problems in dealing with the european patent office and the litany of hurdles he has to go through to obtain a european patent. i do not want to repeat them, and it is not meant as a criticism of the european patent office. but the fact is that he has spent a lot of money and he still has no european patent. his comments are summed up in his last letter to me some weeks ago: "the process is clearly designed to discourage small inventors and favours large business equipped with legal and patent expertise to navigate its treacherous bureaucracy." we owe it to industry, to small and medium-sized enterprises and individual inventors to provide a simple, affordable community patent which in turn will help eu innovation and competitiveness. we must be able to offer industry and smes a better deal to ensure that the protection of intellectual property is genuinely an opportunity to create and encourage innovation. like lord inglewood, i do not believe that the council has the answers to these problems. it will fall to commissioner bolkestein to try to find the solution. however, we have had a rapporteur who has made a herculean effort to try to achieve this. it is no fault of hers that we have not got the right consensus, but i have to say that there is no compromise to be achieved on languages. therefore i leave it to commissioner bolkestein to try to find a solution that will satisfy some of my constituents back in the north-west of england.
mr president, i fully support the idea behind this directive but there are certain tests to which we should submit the proposal and our amendments. firstly, would existing successful arrangements for dealing with electronic waste be allowed to continue? i believe there is a danger that they would not. parliament's amendments emphasise individual producer responsibility so that none can escape the net of the directive, but this means changing existing collective responsibility systems. the rapporteur has dealt with this by allowing for such collective responsibility agreements to continue for 10 years after the entry into force of the directive. that will create two systems in one eu and lead to distortions of competition. i look forward, with some trepidation, to the problems which we will encounter at conciliation on that one. secondly, are we legislating with open eyes about the cost of what is proposed? no, we are not. the cost impact assessment in the original proposal is inevitably inadequate. the british government has done a cost-impact assessment, learning from the fridges debacle. it has estimated a possible annual implementation cost for this directive at eur 500 million, with a maximum save in landfill costs of approximately eur 15 million a year. do we have similar estimates from other countries? no, we do not. will they legislate without counting the cost? yes, in all probability they will. thirdly, should we consider the interests of small businesses? clearly the rapporteur thinks not because he has deleted in amendment no 15 the possibility of giving micro-companies five years' grace to comply with the directive and take advantage of the technical changes that bigger companies may pioneer. i very much regret this and will not support that amendment. fourthly, does what we are doing help responsible companies? not yet. as it stands, the directive creates the possibility that some companies may end up paying for free-riders on the system. we look forward to hearing the commissioner's reply on amendment no 92. fifthly, are we being fair to local authorities? no, the amendments ignore them. sixthly, is it wise to increase the recycling targets? no. it is not done on the basis of any assessment of cost or practicability. parliament habitually increases targets – any targets. it is a very bad trade union habit and one that we should get away from.
mr president, travelling across the union can sometimes seem like travelling in a time machine. starting off in britain, which still has a poor recycling record, the weee directive looks like the future. but when you visit denmark or the netherlands where electrical and electronic waste is routinely collected, you see that the commission directive is really only an attempt to harmonise and build on the best practice of the present. it is only those of us who still live in the past, mr bowe, who find it challenging and ambitious. it certainly will play a major part in waste-management policy and that is for the good. the group of the european liberal, democrat and reform party wants to encourage recycling, good product design, best-use resources and reduce pollution. we strongly support the principle of producer responsibility. there is a lot still to be agreed between parliament and the council through the conciliation process and the fact that we are going to be engaged in lengthy discussion is a tribute to the rapporteur, who has done so much to bring all the political parties in this house together so that we are united and will almost certainly secure qualified majority voting on many amendments tomorrow. in particular i welcome his latest compromise proposal on paying for the costs of dealing with orphan waste. i do not believe that large legitimate manufacturers should have to pay the costs created by other companies, whether they be free-riders or small organisations. i am pleased that encouragement is now being given to re-use materials where environmentally appropriate, and i thank my colleagues across the house for the support they have given me in opposing the development of these so-called clever chips. my words may fall on some deaf ears here but i would ask members to consider giving their support to a couple of amendments i have tabled. amendment no 82 attempts to address the concern of cable manufacturers by making clear that financial responsibility for weee rests with the producer of the finished equipment and not with individual component manufacturers. i thought we were all agreed on that point. amendment no 71 represents a plea for help for plastic recyclers. i conclude by saying with a certain mischievous glee, as someone who has campaigned for better recycling in my own country for 30 years, that i rather hope that this directive puts a bomb under my own local authorities and recalcitrant government.
mr president, like everyone else i should like to congratulate the rapporteur for the work he has done on this proposal. he has worked very hard on it and moved it quite fast, in parliamentary terms. when you consider the full implications, what he has achieved has been quite phenomenal. this is the most extensive recycling scheme we have ever seen in europe. unfortunately, we live in an increasingly throw-away society where we produce more and more waste. what i am pleased to see with this proposal is that we are finally moving in the direction when the days when we can throw fridges, televisions, toasters, mobile phones and other electrical goods into a landfill are over. we all want to see a new era in which environmentally-friendly electric goods are fully recycled or reused. we all need to play our part in this as consumers and become habitual recyclers. but are these proposals going to help us? furthermore, are parliament's amendments going to make things better? in large part i can say ‘yes’, but not entirely. too rigid an application of the principle of individual responsibility will cause major problems for small- and medium-sized enterprises across europe and prevent sensible collective schemes being implemented. enforced mandatory separation of electronic waste at each household, which could then, when non-compliance is found, be threatened with punishment is not a sensible way to encourage the cooperation of consumers nor is it, in every case, technically feasible. do we really want to include consumable spare parts and sub-assemblies in this proposal even if they add contamination and enormous technical problems to the recycling process? does not everyone realise that small firms throughout the european union need some extra time and assistance to cope with their full responsibilities and do this job properly? all this leads me to think that we need a bit more time. after tomorrow's vote we should all pause for some thought about how we can make this directive fully environmentally friendly, cost-effective and attractive to the public.
mr president, i thank the rapporteur for the work she has done, and the cooperation she has had with other rapporteurs has been very helpful. this is an interesting issue. these substances are dangerous, they are toxic. but they also have an extremely useful and important role in that they save lives in their role as fire-retardants. there is absolutely no question about that fact. we have to very carefully consider how we deal with these substances. it is quite clear that penta and probably octa are really not necessary and that the risks they pose to the environment and human health do not justify their continued use as flame-retardants. but i urge parliament to pause for a moment and think seriously about what alternatives there are to these very useful flame retardants. can we still use deca in a sensible and serious way? will the risk assessments finally rule out its use? we simply do not know because we have not had the risk assessments. the commission has to press member states to come forward with them as quickly as possible. we want this issue resolved. we want to know exactly what to do with these substances. for the moment it is an open question. i hope that we use our intelligence in this question and realise the importance of these substances in protecting human life as flame-retardants.
mr president, first of all let me say to the house that when we, as politicians, begin to trade insults on the issue of war in another place, we lose our purpose which is to drive forward the peace, and that must be our ultimate goal. mr dupuis has spoken of atrocities which i find horrifying, because these atrocities are happening to real people; to grandmothers, grandfathers, mothers, daughters, fathers and sons for no reason other than that they are different. i do not hold to the cosiness of the view that russia is doing all that it should, or that it is deeply concerned. after all we were told that, post-september 11, the world had changed, that fundamental human rights would be scrutinised with more vigour than before. however, in the case of chechnya, this is clearly not the case. the rights of the chechens, of whom 200 000 are living in direct danger and fear, are being ignored by the russians. moreover, i believe, the situation is getting worse rather than better. it seems that september 11 has been a catalyst for a cosy relationship between russia and the us, in which the us turns its eye the other way. i welcome this resolution but we must drive it forward. why have our actions lacked punch up until now? i will tell you why; because there has been a lack of co-ordinated and consistent international approach for fear of offending mr putin and allies. atrocities grow, they do not diminish. conflict goes on for years. it is an ongoing war that has been almost unnoticed. yet we see the denial of human rights, the denial of the right of humanitarian ngos to operate effectively on the ground. we need more co-operation with the russian authorities and the independent media to report the truth to the outside world. but let us never forget that the fundamental right is to live in peace without fear of persecution. we need a political resolution, but russia must be held to account. let me finish with this: when war begins, politicians have failed. when wars continue, humanity loses its purpose. this war must end. the peace process is not an option; it is the only way forward.
rapporteur. – mr president, this relates to the situation we have with the council. the budget control committee requested information from the council on the common foreign and security policy. initially, the council was reluctant to provide this information which is why the text, as it stands at the moment, postpones discharge for the council. late last night, however, following a meeting of the council finance ministers, they agreed to answer the questions by friday of this week. due to this change in the situation, and as i wish to avoid a clash with council if at all possible, i would like to propose an oral amendment to amendment no 4, which has now not been withdrawn. this amendment is almost identical to the oral amendment relating to amendment no 3: "is grateful for the answers that, in principle, the council has agreed to provide to questions relating to aspects of the common foreign and security policy within seven days". i would therefore urge that we first vote on amendment no 4, with the oral amendment, and if this falls, we then have to vote on amendment no 3 and i wish to indicate that if this should happen, i withdraw paragraph 3e. i am sorry if it is a bit complicated but it is because of the changing situation.
rapporteur. – mr president, if we send this back to the committee, i cannot promise in which form it will come back. we could start a major constitutional crisis with the council. we have just got an answer from the council on the common foreign and security policy. we should acknowledge that as a major shift from the council, which is why i am urging you to vote today in favour of the line that i have proposed.
in writing. - mr president, i fully support the approach to make producers and consumers of electrical equipment more environmentally responsible. by forcing producers to participate in take-back schemes, this directive will be impactful and effective. the disposal of waste electronic equipment has not yet been effectively addressed and shifting the responsibility to the producer may well be an effective solution. however, in order to ensure that manufacturers adhere to this directive and that it is implemented effectively, account should be taken of the particularities of certain manufactured goods. the situation should not be such that some producers are unfairly burdened with the financial burden of this directive. the directive also rightly mentions the role of consumers in the disposal of electrical waste. finally, since some member states are lagging behind in the disposal of waste electrical equipment, it is vital to provide sufficient information on the new rules.
the european parliamentary labour party voted for this resolution, despite its opposition both to paragraph 8 and to the amendments to it. we endorse the strong commitment of the british government to the evolution of the esdp and to maintaining the integrity of nato. the brok resolution is a good outline of the issues surrounding the esdp. its merits are spoilt, however, by paragraph 8. without an agreement on the use of nato assets, there will be no esdp. we should welcome therefore all efforts to resolve this difficult issue, not criticise them. this only undermines the credibility of parliament. the uk government has acted at all times in accordance with the wishes of the council. the agreement with turkey was also endorsed by the council and opens the way for making the esdp a reality.
i speak in my capacity as secretary of the sos democracy group to explain our opposition to the two resolutions on defence on which the chamber has just voted. there is a range of views in this house about the military needs of the continent. however one thing that ought to be uncontroversial is that the defence of europe should be primarily governed by strategic rather than political considerations. yet this is the opposite of what is proposed in these resolutions. the esdp, and specifically the rapid reaction force, does not extend europe's defence capability by one more soldier or one more bullet. all it does is to transfer the line of command away from nato in the national capitals towards the eu's new politico-military structures. at best this is a pointless and expensive exercise in duplication, at worst it leaves europe weaker by cutting its links with the one nato partner able to supply air- and sea-lift capability, advanced communication satellites and accurate missiles. again and again european defence ministers, including british ones, have been prepared to disregard the advice of their own generals in order to pursue joint european projects. perhaps the supreme example of this thinking is the eurofighter, an aeroplane which is becoming operative years late, billions of euros over budget, and which is effectively already obsolete. after all, in an age in which we are increasingly having to act out of area, what we surely need is an aircraft capable of operating from rough local airfields with low technological requirements for spare parts, capable of buddy refuelling and with a long loiter time. what we are instead getting is a plane conceived in the early 1980s as a way to defend the skies of central europe against a massed attack by russian migs. these two resolutions have nothing to do with making europe more secure and everything to do with making it more integrated as an end in itself. hence our opposition.
in writing. - the british conservative delegation voted against the brok report on european security and defence policy for the following reasons. it considers esdp to be a fundamentally flawed concept, driven by the conflicting and erroneous desire to provide the european union with an autonomous military capability as part of its political ambition to create a european state. nato should remain the military security organisation of first resort, not only for collective defence but also for all military operations in response to certain crises. only in this way will the transatlantic security link be properly guaranteed. adequate provisions for the development of a european security and defence identity within nato were agreed in washington in 1999 and in the years that followed. they enable all european allies to make a coherent and effective contribution to the alliance and to act on their own initiative as agreed and requested. the european security and defence policy is a serious departure from this concept. furthermore, there is no serious resolution by eu member states to increase military spending or significantly strengthen its military capability. we do not consider that meeting the requirements of the rapid reaction force should be the 'top priority' for defence acquisitions. instead, the priority should be to maximise the operational effectiveness of our own armed forces in the context of the overall threats we currently face. defence acquisitions and defence budgets are essential matters of national interest and should not become a community competence. the development of european defence industries should not be motivated by the desire to 'compete with american industry', but by the need to provide our armed forces with the best equipment and to meet industrial and national security requirements. this could involve partnerships with the us, as well as european and other companies.
i wish to begin by welcoming mr graça moura's report. while i am not a member of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, i am one of the vice-chairmen of the delegation for relations with the peoples' republic of china and so take a considerable interest in what is happening there. from my perspective, the most significant development in china of recent years is the move towards china becoming incorporated into the world trading system. not merely is this significant, as it takes china into the world community of nations, it also brings china into the evolving new system of decision-making in an increasingly interdependent world. i would like to make two particular points which arise from this. first, for chinese membership of the world trade organisation to be a success, it is necessary for legal certainty and even-handedness to apply to commercial relations between chinese business and firms from outside. if and when these relationships go wrong, and it is bound to happen from time to time, there is an overriding requirement for there to be in place proper legal processes to deal even-handedly and fairly with outstanding causes of disagreement. i know that steps are being taken to enable this to occur and i very much support and welcome them because without them wto membership cannot be a success. secondly, it is a characteristic of current developments in international relations that the traditional demarcation between domestic and foreign policy is breaking down. regardless of whether human rights issues in the past may have been treated as purely domestic considerations, increasingly now they are not. regardless of the situation in classical international law, these things are important to people outside china. they will and do take them into account in making policy, be it political or commercial. the same equally applies within the european union. how these aspects of life are handled domestically in china now has, and will continue in the future to have, repercussions on the way in which relations between china and both foreign countries and foreign businesses develop.
mr president, i also would to thank our rapporteur. we all know that this is subject on which he feels very strongly – at last he has got his five minutes on it. i would agree with much of what has already been said in this debate. when we are looking at safe and sustainable pensions, it is a particular problem for women. there is a very strong gender dimension to the pension issue. we see many severe disparities, especially in relation to occupational pensions and even state pension entitlements, where women are effectively penalised for taking on domestic responsibilities; for having worked part-time or flexibly. as new working patterns become more common, it is clear that we need to ensure that pension provision is guaranteed for both men and women in those different working environments. perhaps, as is usually the case, once more men start working flexibly, we will suddenly see much more interest in pensions keeping up with different forms of work. that is maybe cynical if truthful. it is also, as mr van lancker has said, an issue, which touches very strongly on poverty. we already see in far too many countries, pensioners with an inadequate basic pension unable to participate fully in society and often unable to meet their basic needs. the key, of course, is decent state pensions, and funding them is a political choice. my group does not believe that pension costs will necessarily destabilise economies or society, if such choices on spending are made carefully. indeed, the cases of people playing by the rules and investing either in their companies – with the enron example before us or indeed in equitable life in my own country – and making private pension provision, show that you cannot trust the markets any more than you can sometimes trust governments. the democratic deficit in open co-ordination is also becoming even clearer. this is obviously an issue we need to address extremely rapidly.
mr president, i should like to bring a slightly different dimension to the debate and bring in the experience of parliament's committee on petitions where pensions and social security issues constitute 20% of the petitions brought to the committee's attention. i add my own congratulations to mr fatuzzo and his own way of pressing the needs of pensioners. pensioners across europe have reason to be grateful to him for the work he has done. the issue that tends to be raised most with the committee on petitions is increasingly that of people who in their working lives exercise their right to move across and work in various countries in europe and then retire elsewhere. i well remember the case of a german citizen, married to a french woman, who had spent much of his working life in belgium, had then retired to spain and wanted to know who was going to help him in filling in his pension claim forms. there was also an italian citizen who worked much of his time in luxembourg and then retired to italy. he pointed out that the arrangements (in place at the time) made it possible to accumulate benefits, but nevertheless penalised migrant workers who found themselves having to deal with any number of national pension schemes. in another case earlier this year we considered a petition from a british citizen, on behalf of 40,000 british pensioners living in spain, who complained that the british government was refusing to pay them the winter fuel allowance. his argument was that it was paid to all pensioners living in britain, regardless of means, regardless of how cold or warm it was in the part of britain they lived in. i represent the isle of wight – the sunniest part of the united kingdom – but the same winter fuel allowance is paid to people living in the cold north of scotland; the british government refused to pay this to the uk citizens in spain. these citizens appealed to the european parliament and i am delighted to say that as a result of that petition, the winter fuel allowance is now to be paid to british pensioners wherever they live. the point i make is that british pensioners have to look to the british government, german pensioners to the german government and so on. i do not disagree that it is the responsibility of national governments, but the point that needs to be made, is that more and more thousands of citizens who are pensioners, who work in different countries in europe, will retire to different countries in europe. it is very important that the member states that have responsibility for pension schemes bear in mind the needs of citizens who use their european rights to work and retire in different countries of the union.
mr president, every year 100 people die in my west midlands constituency of asbestos-related diseases. every year 4,500 people die in the uk from these diseases according to the trade unions, and studies predict, as mrs thorning-schmidt said, that in excess of between 250,000 and 500,000 will die cross western europe in the next 35 years. the evidence is there. the facts are clear, based on scientific studies. exposure to asbestos can maim and kill and asbestos workers have to be protected. manufacturing of asbestos has been banned in almost all member states, but there are still millions of tonnes of asbestos left in europe's buildings, industrial plants, railway carriages that were built in the 1950s and the 1960s, etc. i agree with the report that the presence of asbestos has to be presumed in a building if it has not been proved otherwise. workers will continue to be exposed for many years because of demolition, removal, refurbishment and maintenance still having to take place. that is why i sought further tightening of exposure levels in committee by proposing an amendment, which was accepted by committee, which would effectively halve the exposure allowed. instead of the eight-hour exposure limit, it was opting for a four-hour exposure limit. it would also reflect the current working patterns within an industry because shifts are a lot less than they are in other sections of the industry. an eight-hour reference period will allow higher levels of exposure over a shorter period like one to two hours, which to my mind is unacceptable. i would like to see this limit for all workers who are exposed to asbestos, with the exception of people working in asbestos cement. i genuinely believe that is a separate case. it is important we do not have different exposure limits, however, depending on the type of work, as amendment no 21 has, but this will be dealt with in conciliation. i urge you to vote for amendment no 21 and for the last six words of amendment no 42. my understanding is that if amendment no 21 is accepted then we can vote for the last sentence of amendment no 42 which deals with asbestos cement, but we need clarification on that from the president. i urge you to vote for this excellent report. it is one example of an eu directive where there is compelling scientific and medical evidence that it is needed to save lives across the european union.
mr president, it should be noted that the commission has been unable to suggest a maximum limit value on the exposure to chrysotile, mainly because it has been impossible to prove that any deaths have arisen from the use of products containing white asbestos. yet this committee knows better. it thinks that the precautionary principle should apply. the only way to protect workers is a policy of zero risk. to demonstrate the absurdity of this stance, you should note that a human being on average breathes in 20,000 white asbestos fibres a day; up to 2 million exist in the lungs of healthy individuals, and they are all from natural sources. in fact, although occupational exposure to massive levels of white asbestos may pose some risk, as indeed does exposure to any dust at high levels, even the uk's own risk-averse health and safety executive concedes that there is a negligible risk from exposure to products made from white asbestos. yet the inclusion of white asbestos in this directive is estimated by none other than our own trade union council to cost gbp 80 billion for the uk alone and up to gbp 500 billion throughout europe, without possibly saving a single life. at the very least, therefore, this parliament should pause for thought and refer this legislation back to a committee for a full evaluation of its costs and consequences.
council. - the council is concerned about the recent tensions between india and pakistan, particularly in view of the scale of their military deployment and the nuclear capabilities of both countries. it hopes that, following the firm action taken by pakistan against terrorist groups based on its territory and operating in india, both countries will be able to resume bilateral dialogue in the spirit of the shimla agreement and the lahore declaration. the council also hoped that this dialogue would cover all issues of mutual interest, including the jammu and kashmir issue. the council is prepared to assist in the dialogue, but only if the parties consider it useful.
does the presidency agree that kashmir is a good example of a conflict allowed to fester for too long? while our attention is understandably focused elsewhere – such as on the middle east – we tend to forget that there are very dangerous conflicts going on in other parts of the world and therefore tend to do too little about trying to resolve them? is the presidency aware that there are many eu citizens of kashmiri origin – not least in my own constituency – who are very worried, and increasingly worried, about the wellbeing of their relations? does the president-in-office agree that it is now time to press even harder for the parties concerned to find a negotiated solution? we should not forget that conflict while our attention is focused elsewhere. we need to pay more attention to it as a european union and, if necessary, we offer the european union's services as a mediator if that would be helpful to those involved.
it gives me very great pleasure to thank and support the council for everything that it has said today on this complicated issue. i rise because, although the council position has not altered, the romanian government has put in a great deal of work, and i want to commend to the council the report that came out just a few days ago from the independent group for international adoption analysis, which the prime minister commissioned. the report has now been adopted and will be published and promoted once one or two details have been sorted out. this new report is very important, in particular for unblocking pipeline cases, which i know will give my good and eminent colleague, mr gil-robles gil-delgado, very great pleasure. but we need to remember that it is not just families in spain and north america who are affected by the corruption and child-trafficking to which the council has referred. there are many thousands of children in romania who have families of their own and have become detached from them. so the whole system has to be refreshed, renewed and looked at, as the council has said. it is a very important matter, particularly in regard to severely disabled children, and i feel confident the new report helps on priority as well. my question to the council, however, is that i am very concerned at reports, that appear to be very well-founded that the us, stirred perhaps by the emotion that this issue creates, is linking the potential membership of romania to nato, which this parliament 100% supports, with the lifting of the moratorium on inter-country adoption. could the council please state – if it is true – that this is a most improper way to behave?
rapporteur. – mr president, it is because the lisbon summit first of all set its sights on making europe the most dynamic and knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010 that we actually have the risk capital action plan we have today. it was optimistic of governments to set this target, but not unrealistic, given that it is within their grasp to achieve it. a stimulating framework is required for us to promote high-growth industries such as information and biotechnologies and from that the jobs that must come. smes are a part of that process and that is what this is about: attracting finance to try to generate those businesses. why do we need the risk capital action plan? if we make a comparison of europe and the us in the areas of business generation and equity financing, particularly amongst small businesses, then venture capital activity demonstrates a huge gap in europe's readiness to compete. a framework has had to be established in order for us to plot europe's future. to begin with, and the commission has done this fairly well – after prompting by parliament – key barriers had to be removed and benchmarks set for their removal. the framework for these benchmarks has now been identified. the first is market fragmentation. how do companies actually raise debt and equity finance across the european union? there are varied and contrasting pictures across the 15 member states. there are can best be described on one side as nascent markets, and on the other, rather more sophisticated and developed approaches. commercial bank loans are how many small- to medium-sized businesses attract finance. this is wholly appropriate in some circumstances; but new and exciting projects or spin-offs are not necessarily so appropriate for bank loans. in areas where risk is likely to be a considerable feature of the exchange, dotcoms for example, commercial banking may be deemed inappropriate and unworkable. alternative processes are then required – business angels or groups of investors, private investors – bringing together people with ideas on one side and money on the other. at the institutional level, there is the possibility of quotation on the aims market in the uk, for example, and perhaps even the idea of using pension funds to allow for higher growth returns rather than with bonds and blue chip equities. given the pursuit of those higher returns for potential new and growing firms, it is not perhaps surprising to learn that an entire industry has sprung up in this field. similarly, the careful approach of these investors, with their application of the principle of due diligence, means that spontaneity is not a part of the risk equation, as one might have first imagined. if the eu wants a place in the "premier division" of industrial growth and competition, then funding the industries of tomorrow is of vital importance. this is the stark reality of a market which is held back, not just by the slow evolution of debt-raising, but also by the nature of the institutional and regulatory barriers which fence in any further development across the european union. let us have a look at some of those barriers. on the administrative side, it is nice to see that the administrative formalities for forming a company have now acquired the cornerstone of the company statute. this permits the kind of progress we hope to see. i note also that in january 2002 the directorate-general for enterprises started to work on benchmarking the administration of business start-ups. the cost of starting up a business varies across the european union and there is some progress. but look at some of the licensing issues. look at some of the other issues which hold companies back. it is important to make distinctions, and here we see companies in the areas of hi-tech, drugs, and biotechnology being made to jump through hoops which may have to be reconsidered. we have to look at just how these businesses fare. we do not just need to look at start-ups – businesses grow, they develop or they are bought out. so, for any practical observation, we need to consider just what kind of businesses we are looking at for risk capital. even now buy-outs – and management buy-outs in particular – are the single largest category of acting in venture capital. clearing the path of regulatory barriers means introducing new directives. there they bind together the approaches necessary for a single market to emerge. recently the prospectuses directive was adopted and now – i believe, because of the activities of this parliament – protects small- to medium-sized businesses from the bureaucratic requirements of continual registration or the dangers that threatened their ability to have access to funding. the issues of the prospectuses directive which parliament had to address could have been avoided if there had been sufficient cross-referencing with the risk capital action plan in the first place. let me also just mention pensions and the need for us to have a good quality directive on pensions – one that avoids the prudential plus approach. that approach, would actually reduce the prospects of any kind of funding from the pensions industry – an industry which, in the us is a major source of small business investment. if that prudential plus approach is used, then we may as well not have a pensions directive in europe. the financial services action plan itself gathers together many of the directives necessary for completion of the risk capital action plan, including most of what i have already mentioned. but now that the lamfalussy issue is practically resolved, progress will be assured, leaving the regulatory framework requirement for the risk capital action plan well within our sights. the impact of small- to medium-sized businesses has long been an issue raised by many parliamentarians who want to see nothing but the most positive advantages passed on to companies. the commission's benchmarking of its achievements in these areas has given the european parliament and the council the tool to measure europe's progress. so far that progress has been good, if a little slow. there are other areas which have been mentioned, such as taxation, double taxation of venture capital or capital gains tax, tax arrangements for new firms and comparative tax rates with less risky forms of capital. these have been taken up by a number of member states but some backbone still needs to be put into these issues. also, in terms of human resources, we have to have the kind of training or advice that is necessary to help these businesses flourish in the first place: life-long learning and initiatives in vocational qualifications can seen as the start of the spread of best practice, as is the introduction of business mentors in certain countries and developments in school curricula. the high-tech small businesses which, in the end, are the target of the risk capital action plan, are in short supply themselves. the lisbon summit of 1997 threw down the gauntlet of the risk capital action plan for europe to pick up. the expectation is to reach completion by 2005 in terms of a regulatory framework and 2010 for the knowledge-based economy. the risk capital action plan is not in itself a master plan for increased growth or job creation, but it is the essential framework. progress has been made but it is quite slow.
mr president, i should like to begin by making two declarations of interest. the first is that i represent wales in the european parliament. members may know that the risk capital action plan was first adopted at the cardiff summit, the capital city of wales and also the city in which i live. however, a rather more direct financial interest is that i am a director of the national farmers' union mutual insurance company in the uk, one of the uk's top ten insurance companies. i should mention that because some of my remarks will touch upon issues that are relevant in the insurance sector. i congratulate mr skinner for the work he has done on this report. it is traditional to say that but, in this instance, i really do value the hard work and commitment that he has given. he is a somewhat solitary figure on that particular side of the house in terms of the need to ensure that we develop the interests of business. nonetheless, his is a voice that we welcome. his report is one that we welcome. my colleagues and i in the committee on economic and monetary affairs have made some variations to the report which make it even more acceptable. this report is set within the context – i believe – of some of the failures of the venture capital industry. there have been such failures. the venture capital industry has been too focused on areas where there is already significant financial activity. that is why it is necessary for there to be some guidance in relation to the state aid rules. but i should like to caution parliament in the light of some of my own experience of the history of the failure of government-sponsored forays into the whole venture capital area. first of all, people imagine that if there is some government-sponsored capital scheme it is bound to mean a guarantee of financial support. secondly, what are the judgments as to which investments should be backed and which should not? who is making those judgments? thirdly, the effect that there can sometimes be in distorting markets and actually driving good competitors out of business. these are some of the cautions there may be. the report we are considering here gets this balance right but we still need to get away from the idea that government, in some sense, can resolve all of these issues. it is important that we deal with the promotion of entrepreneurship. we give too much lip service to this without effectively putting it into operation. in my own country we have objective i status but getting the people who are involved in putting that plan into operation to recognise the importance of entrepreneurship is very difficult. very often we have local and regional administrations run by the public sector who just regard this as yet another income stream. so there must be guidance in those areas as well. finally, i want to make a point about the sources for raising funds. they are pension funds, banks and insurance companies. that is something that is recognised by the commission and mr skinner as well. in this house we have to get away from demonising these organisations. these organisations are the ones that we look to for the funding to create the dynamic economy that we want to develop in europe. there will be two benefits: we will create new businesses and employment opportunities and we will, at the same time, be funding, very often, income for retirement for european citizens. as a result of that we will be creating a virtuous circle of investment. that is a message that is not heard often enough in this chamber.
mr president, the skinner report provides a sensible response to the october 2000 commission communication to implement the risk capital action plan which dates back to the 1998 cardiff summit and dovetails neatly with the financial services action plan which barcelona has made a priority. smes in europe face much greater difficulties than their us counterparts in raising loan or equity finance, which may help in part to explain the extraordinary success in us economic growth over the last ten years. although there is now rapid growth in venture capital funds in the european union, there is enormous variation in performance. the city of london, which i proudly represent, leads the way at 0.4% of uk gdp devoted to this cause. but even here, most funding comes from us sources. pension funds are the prime source of capital, and i have advocated uk-style self-select pension plans for the self-employed being permitted to make such investments on a pan-european basis, although this was rejected in committee, unfortunately. i agree with the call for us-style eu-wide insolvency laws along the lines of the american chapter xi bankruptcy procedures which afford a number of advantages, particularly in so far as they do not disrupt the continuity of trading in failing companies. i also lament the lateness in bringing forward the much-needed community patent, due to excessive sensitivity on the language issue which will only add to the cost for smes and make the procedures unworkable. not radically tackling the language issue now will only get worse after enlargement when there are 40 million polish speakers who also want their language to be given the same priority as, say, italian or spanish. member states should also seriously consider promotion of funds through generous capital gains tax incentives to mitigate the risk to investors. i generally, though, reject state funding directly for smes as the state is generally poor at picking winners amongst competing demands for capital. nevertheless mr skinner's suggestion of a one-stop shop risk capital website to facilitate the interface of smes and the finance-providers is a very good one. this excellent report enjoyed considerable cross-party support in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and, in spite of originating from the other side of the house, deserves our full support.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. – mr president, we have reached that time of the evening at which i am sure commissioner bolkestein, mrs ayuso gonzález, you and i can all think of better things to do with ethyl alcohol than talk about it. however, we are fated to spend at least a few more minutes in conversation. i would like to express profound sympathy with mrs ayuso gonzález for the amount of work and time she has put into this report, only to discover that it was not possible to construct an adequate legal base to bring in both the sources of ethyl alcohol. as i understand it, ethyl alcohol produced for industrial use comes more or less equally from agricultural sources and from non-agricultural sources, chiefly from the oil industry. in that context, it would be necessary to find a dual legal base to deal with both together. personally i think she is right that it would be absurd for the community to try to deal with this single identical substance differently according to the two alternative sources. on the other hand, the economics of production and the industrial circumstances of production are quite different, as i am sure commissioner bolkestein knows even better than i from his own manifold past experience. so it is quite an important question to try and find a way of dealing with the whole market in a way that is sensitive to both sources of production. it would have been objectionable – i know from contacts of my own with the oil industry in scotland – to spatchcock the oil industry-produced ethanol into an agricultural organisation which had been set up without regard to circumstances in the other sector, so we need a two-handed approach to this. thus it is absolutely right to suggest that the commission should put its thinking cap on again and come back with a new look at whatever is needed in the way of keeping an eye on the whole alcohol market at this difficult time, dealing even-handedly with both sources of production.
rapporteur. – mr president, may i first pay credit to my colleague, mr heaton-harris, for the initial work he did in drafting this report before he moved to another committee. the rapid development of the audio-visual media has brought many real benefits in terms of education, spreading greater awareness of public affairs around the world, and not least in the field of entertainment. however, along with the undoubted advantages, there have also been concerns that, given the generally greater adeptness of children at using audio-visual resources, in some areas there are dangers of their obtaining access to unsuitable or harmful material. this is most obvious in the fields of overt sexual material and gratuitous violence. the principles which have guided this report are to encourage greater public awareness of these issues and to support parental responsibility and to develop co-operation between the content providers, consumer organisations and the respective authorities, both national and european. self-regulation is considered to be the main instrument, underpinned by legal requirements where necessary. the report, which analyses the commission's evaluation report, is primarily concerned with the internet and with video games, as it was felt important not to anticipate a possible future review of the television without frontiers directive. the report calls for user-friendly content filter systems to enable parents to predetermine the sort of content which they feel is unsuitable viewing for their children and, in this regard i very much welcome the fact that, since the report was first drafted, the internet content rating association (icra), has launched a filter system available free of charge, an initiative supported by the commission. we also called for greater public awareness, for education campaigns and hotlines to be set up, as already exists in tv broadcasting, so that complaints about illegal or harmful content may be recorded by consumers, particularly by parents. we consider that so-called 'internet chat rooms' should be subject to greater monitoring, both of the rules for their installation and in relation to their use. as far as video games are concerned, we call upon the member states to continue to promote the rating of video games, again through self-regulation, but if that is considered to be inadequate in some cases, it should be backed up by the introduction of agreed minimum standards of content and promotion. it is also hoped that the member states will continue to exchange best practice in this field and co-ordinate measures which are taken in co-operation with the industry and with content providers. the report does not seek to sensationalise or exaggerate perceived dangers, but it does provide a useful framework to encourage public awareness of the risks involved and to provide practical remedies. finally, parliament calls on the commission to draw up a further report, preferably before the end of this year, on the implementation of the recommendation with specific reference to implementation in each member state. i commend the report to the house. (applause)
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. – mr president, i want to concentrate on the need to tackle the growing phenomenon of child abuse on the internet. we welcome initiatives by the member states in the eu on safer internet use for children but we need to step up our actions for a more coordinated campaign to fight against internet paedophilia. when it comes to cybercrime, member states rightly prioritise the campaign against global terrorism and, additionally, focus on internet credit card fraud, but more can and should be done on internet-paedophilia. last week i met with the abusive images unit of greater manchester police, a small, committed team led by terry jones, leading the field in expertise in the uk on tracing and convicting child abusers on the net. the unit was launched in 1995, when 12 images were seized. in 1999, 41,000 images were seized and one recent conviction revealed a man with over 50,000 images of child abuse. this is not child pornography but gross and indecent sexual abuse. i have seen the pictures. behind each image is a real child traumatised by their experiences. the police i met with are doing an excellent job and being assisted by new software technology designed again by a local company in my constituency, surf control. with this they monitored chat channels for 16 hours. they picked up 48 offenders right across the eu – offenders in positions of trust (teachers and scoutmasters, a foster parent in germany and a swedish army sergeant); babies as young as three months had been anally raped. abuse is under-reported. so what should we do in the eu? we need to do more. we need hotlines and to make this a priority at eu and member state level. this week we voted for a eu network of national monitoring centres on football hooliganism. that is a violent and visible form of abuse, but we can do more for those children who are suffering behind the scenes from fear and violent abuse. yes, we need self-regulation and partnership, but internet service providers have to prioritise this. aol and ntl have excellent reputations, but others are not doing the job. they are not answering the request of police to track down these abusers and they are even beginning to ask to charge the police service for it. i want to see closer cooperation between europol and eu law enforcement. i want better research and funding for internet-tracing software. we can do more if we make this a priority and we can protect our children from this violent and heinous form of abuse.
mr president, i would also like to add my thanks to the rapporteur for his work on this very important report. the explosion in broadcasting technologies has caused many parents to lose control over what their children watch, and the growth of digital, cable and satellite tv, as well as home computer technology, means that parents are increasingly powerless to monitor their children's viewing habits. according to some reports, parents were not aware of the facilities, such as the blocks on pay tv and internet filters, which help them control what their children watch. parents need to be given more information on how these work and how trustworthy they are. children's welfare is primarily the responsibility of their legal guardians, but this does not absolve suppliers and distributors of audiovisual content of their responsibilities. both sides must take full responsibility in this regard. the degree of self-regulation in broadcasting differs from one member state to another, but we all agree that we must work towards some commonality in this area and that self-regulation must be underpinned by some legal basis. finally, child pornography on the internet is unforgivable, and there are vast numbers of websites with illegal content located outside the european union. i commend the report to the house and thank the rapporteur again for his excellent initiative in this regard.
commission. - mr president, on 18 march the commission adopted a communication as part of its contribution to the second world assembly on ageing, organised by the united nations and hosted by the spanish government in madrid from 8 to 12 april 2002. the commission communication is entitled 'europe's responses to the ageing of the world's population - promoting economic and social progress in an ageing world'. this communication addresses the phenomenon of ageing in europe in the context of global ageing trends. first, europe is among the regions with the oldest populations in the world, and european countries will continue to be the leading ageing nations for several decades to come. however, ageing is no longer primarily a problem of developed countries. today it is also becoming - and increasingly - a concern of developing countries. in many of these countries, ageing will be much faster and in a context of development at a much lower level than in western europe. so ageing will be, in the 21st century, a problem that will require not a european response but a global response. the commission's approach is based on three points. first, the population is ageing rapidly. enlargement will not change this situation, nor will immigration, although it may have a slight influence on this process. demography, however, is not fate. policy responses to ageing will determine how it will affect european societies. secondly, ageing is the result of a combination of several social processes and should be seen as an evolution that interacts with other phenomena. the response must therefore be an integral part of the overall strategy of mutually reinforcing policies. thirdly, while the conditions and opportunities for older people are a major concern at all times, the successful adaptation to ageing is a matter for people of all ages. a whole-life approach can therefore facilitate the development of appropriate policy measures. the main part of the communication describes how we must act at european level. the commission has identified ageing as one of the six common challenges of sustainable development, and member states have taken decisive steps to deepen cooperation on ageing issues. member states have committed themselves to coordinating their work, and we are beginning to see a similar development in health care. the main challenges were identified in common. these are: anticipating an increase in expenditure while ensuring the sustainability of public budgets; adapting to an ageing and shrinking workforce; ensuring adequate, reliable and adaptable pensions; ensure that ageing europeans have access to quality healthcare for long periods of time. beyond the experience the european union has gained in its response to ageing, the communication takes into account the challenges facing candidate and developing countries globally. taken as a whole, the communication represents the commission's contribution to the debate on the new international action plan on ageing, which will have to be adopted. as such, it is intended to support the efforts of the member states to achieve a uniform union position on this issue. my colleague, mrs anna diamantopoulou, presented the recent developments in the european union's position on the problem of ageing at the world assembly in madrid on monday.
mr president, one of the key issues regarding ageing, as people have said, is to tackle age discrimination itself, particularly in the labour market, in healthcare and so on. in our view that is going to need more than codes of conduct, which do not seem to be working particularly fast. as others have said, it is important, too, that we recognise the contribution of older people who are already keeping society and our economy going, by acting as carers offering childcare, for example, so that their children can go out to work, or by acting as volunteers. indeed, in a number of countries the local government system, let alone the parliamentary system, would probably collapse without their input. the key thing as others have said, is for us to stop perpetuating the image of people, like many of us in this chamber, as a burden on society and its services, and to see us as much more of an asset. indeed, in future we will need to be even more fully involved in our societies. we look to our societies and to our governments to act internationally to create a sustainable future so that we can change the situation of poverty in which many people live.
- we now move to the vote. unrelated procedure: proposal for a council regulation imposing certain specific restrictive measures directed against certain persons and entities associated with usama bin laden, the al-qaida network and the taliban, and repealing council regulation (ec) no 467/2001 prohibiting the export of certain goods and services to afghanistan, strengthening the flight ban and extending the freezing of funds and other financial resources, decided against the taliban of afghanistan (com (2002) 117 final - c5-0132/2002 - 2002/0059 (cns)) before the vote:
commission. – mr president, the commission cannot agree at this stage with parliament's position rejecting the proposal and calling on the commission to withdraw it. if parliament votes in favour of this position, which the commission would regret, my colleague, mr fischler, would have to reflect on the situation and confer with his colleagues on the course of action to be taken. however, commissioner fischler is, i believe, going to discuss this problem with the parliamentary committee.
- thank you, commissioner. in that case, the case is referred back to the committee.
in writing. - i strongly support the efforts to strengthen the protection of workers against the health risks associated with exposure to asbestos. as a considerable increase in the number of people affected by asbestos is predicted by 2020, legislation needs to be improved to further reduce the acceptable exposure thresholds. if the eu is to show that it does not accept non-compliance with this legislation, it is essential to apply sanctions against irresponsible employers. i also welcome the proposals for community funding for training and information on the health hazards of asbestos. with this report, the problem of asbestos contamination should be addressed primarily through a preventive rather than curative approach, an approach which has the potential to reduce the number of workers affected.
in writing. - i fully support this resolution which calls for closer cooperation between the eu and china. i believe that the eu must play a key role in shaping china's economic, social and political agenda. china's accession to the wto is a positive step, but the eu must not rest on its laurels: the human rights situation remains problematic and the un conventions that china has ratified are still far from being fully respected. i believe that the report has struck a balance between encouraging economic and social reforms in china and denouncing the persistent violations of human rights and the rule of law in that country. eu-china relations continue to be marred by issues such as the persecution of falun gong practitioners and the imprisonment of monks in tibet. it is therefore important that the eu is uncompromising in the face of these problems and is willing to cooperate with china.
in writing. - i fully support this report which aims to strengthen the current legislation on the protection of minors. the welfare of a child is the responsibility of its legal guardians, and this is an established fact; but children are exposed to all kinds of potentially harmful influences in the media, and especially on the internet. while the eu has been active in protecting children from the harmful influences of the media - notably through its 1999 action plan and the council recommendation - it is high time that a more concrete action plan was developed, involving not only policy makers but also ngos, consumer groups and voluntary associations. the control of the media is a huge task and europe must mobilise all its experts to counteract this harmful influence which is increasingly affecting children. the so-called new media, the information society, are a double-edged sword for children: they can offer them a valuable source of information, educational or otherwise, but they can also expose them to harmful content.
in writing. - i fully support this draft resolution to strengthen cooperation with third countries in the field of higher education. education is rapidly evolving to meet the needs of the knowledge society and the new economy. it is generally acknowledged that the united states is competitive in this field. as is sadly shown by the departure of the brightest students abroad. by focusing on the mutual recognition of diplomas and investing in language training for students who might wish to continue their studies in another european country, we would help to reduce this gap. education must be seen as one of the pillars of the lisbon strategy and we must ensure, with rigour and consistency, that education is open to all and of the same high quality as the american system. europe must take advantage of the fact that it is the ideal destination for people who want to deepen their knowledge and learn languages.
- explanations of vote are closed. (the sitting was suspended at 12.45 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
mr president, once again we are reminded of the desperate tragedy that continues to afflict the people of burma. much attention has been paid to the fact that talks have been going on between the military regime and aung san suu kyi since october 2000. however, in reality, little in the way of substantive political progress has been made. the military regime continues to deprive the national league for democracy of its election victory of 1990, keeping its leader and 20 of its mps under arrest. moreover, it continues to violate in a most appalling way the basic human rights of its citizens. while it is perhaps invidious to focus on any one individual, as so many suffer, i want to draw particular attention today to the case of 74-year-old dr salai tun than, retired rector of the yezin university in upper burma, who is currently being held in the infamous insein prison. dr than, who is not directly affiliated to any political movement, has had a long and distinguished career of public service, with the founding of the myanmar integrated rural development association among his many accomplishments. in any civilised country he would be held up as a pillar of the community. instead, on 29 november last year, he was arrested for handing out a petition calling for a return to civilian rule. in february of this year he was sentenced to seven years in prison. dr than has had no access to visitors since his arrest, save for the red cross, who have provided him with medicine for a chronic eye condition. he is just one of more than 1,300 political prisoners languishing in burmese jails, most of them guilty of nothing more than having the courage to stand up for their legitimate political freedoms. i call upon the burmese authorities to release dr salai tun than immediately. it is now time for us to send a clear message to the military regime in burma as a matter of urgency: it must heed calls for a return to democracy and political freedom. only then can it hope to qualify for much-needed international assistance that will enable this desperate country to halt its ruinous economic decline.
mr president, burma, since the sixties, has isolated itself from the world at large, at great cost to its own people. burma is poor, under-developed and its population increasingly remote from the socialist military government, which refused, in 1990, to accept the result of the last free election in that country and placed the victor of those elections, aung san suu kyi, under house arrest. according to the findings of the asian development bank, quoted by the un's own rapporteur in his report, the country spends only 0.17 percent of its gdp on health care and a comparable amount on education. burma is now the world's largest producer of heroin and significant parts of the country are controlled by drug lords, and i am concerned at china's role in facilitating this process. there are over 1 000 political prisoners in the country, including 15 elected mps and a 74-year-old professor – as mentioned by my colleague, mr van orden – dr salai tun than, whose only crime is to call for free multi-party elections- a man who bears no hatred towards his jailers but who symbolises, poignantly, the plight of his country. burma's rulers have driven themselves and their people into a cul-de-sac. i support the principle of targeted sanctions, including travel bans on the military leadership, but i am sceptical about the consequences of their indiscriminate application, as this may only hurt the people themselves rather than the military leadership, although it makes sense to make new investment dependent on improvements in human rights on a case-by-case basis. certainly, we recognise that some political prisoners have been recently released and that 25 of the offices of the national league for democracy in rangoon have recently been allowed to re-open. this is great progress and we should encourage it. that said, we need to ensure that aid is channelled through trusted organisations and we need to offer the leadership a road map for reform. lastly, i say to the military leaders, that by imprisoning a 74-year-old man, they show not their strength but their weakness. a country that tolerates freedom of expression is a stronger country with better hope for the future. i urge them to free dr than and aung san suu kyi, and all other political prisoners immediately and to give their people hope for the future.
mr president, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we have always recognised the complexity of the events that have caused the instability that has settled in the central mountains of vietnam since early 2001. we have followed with concern the exodus of the montagnards from the region and have supported the efforts of the united nations high commissioner for refugees, in collaboration with the vietnamese and cambodian governments, to ensure appropriate conditions for the return of those who returned voluntarily. we therefore regret the breakdown of the tripartite agreement and have welcomed, in the circumstances, the positive decision of the cambodian government to authorize the resettlement to the united states of the montagnards currently living in camps in cambodia under the coordination of the united nations high commissioner for refugees. we believe, however, that this measure does not constitute a definitive solution to the problems which have caused this exodus. we therefore continue our efforts to encourage cambodia to meet its international responsibilities. it is bound by the 1951 convention relating to the status of refugees and must continue to provide assistance, asylum and temporary protection to asylum seekers. at the same time, we share the view of the members who have expressed themselves in this resolution that vietnam must continue its efforts to protect civil, political and religious rights. as regards the situation of the montagnards in particular, it is clear that the problems in question cannot be dealt with by the vietnamese government at the local level. they need to be treated there. these issues are more generally related to the need to actively pursue reforms in vietnam so that the vietnamese administration is accustomed, at all levels, which is not necessarily the case yet, to the expression of pluralism of opinion and to appreciating the virtues of a political regime that allows differences of view to be expressed. the eu has also been active in the fight against corruption and organised crime, and has also been active in the fight against organised crime. that is the commission's position. mr dupuis will allow me to remind him in conclusion that the policy we are pursuing in vietnam is not that of poul nielson but that of the commission, that of the council of ministers, that of the european parliament, in a word: that of the european union.
mr president, a number of countries around the world have reintroduced sharia law in recent years, including parts of nigeria. in the sudan sharia has even been used against christians, which is contrary to islamic teaching. we are not talking here of the death penalty as such, which remains legal in international law and is still practised in a number of democracies, not only the united states, but also russia, india, caribbean islands, japan and singapore to name but a few. indeed, in my own party in the uk the death penalty remains a matter of individual conscience with many, myself included, in favour of its restricted application for the most heinous of crimes, such as child murder and serial killings. tens of millions of european citizens also share this view. nevertheless, in nigeria we have the terrible spectacle of women being executed for simple adultery by a barbarically slow and painful method. it is always difficult to interfere in the customs of others, but it is important that, as a parliament, we transmit our abhorrence at this practice without delay to the nigerian government. furthermore, i recently heard that afghanistan has no plans to abrogate the sharia criminal code, including stoning to death for adultery. i am of the view that, given the fact that the eu is the largest donor to the reconstruction of this country, to the tune of over eur 1 billion, we should make aid conditional on the cessation of these unacceptable practices. both nigeria and afghanistan are members of the international community and signatories to various international conventions guaranteeing human rights. i, like most members in this house, believe that such sharia punishments are totally unacceptable at the dawn of the 21st century.
commission mr president, we share the concerns of the authors of the resolution about the serious deterioration of the situation in guatemala in such fundamental areas as the protection of human rights, the administration of justice and the proper management of public affairs. we are also very concerned, as you are, about the increasing number of acts of intimidation in this country, not only against human rights defenders but also against representatives of civil society, political leaders, members of non-governmental organizations and clergy. the commission's main priorities for relations with guatemala are therefore to support the implementation of the 1996 peace agreements, to encourage the modernisation of the state and to consolidate better management of public affairs. these priorities are part of a general framework, which is the full implementation of the recommendations made in the commission's report on historical clarification, which mrs gonzález álvarez has spoken about and which is of crucial importance. in this connection - and in accordance with the resolution on human rights in guatemala which you adopted last june - the commission has decided to take further measures. firstly, in the context of political dialogue, the commission and the member states of the union have regularly and tirelessly reminded the guatemalan authorities and local public institutions of the importance of discouraging all forms of violence and systematically examining any obstacles to respect for human rights and the rule of law. in addition, in a joint statement issued after the meeting of the consultative group on guatemala - held in washington last february - the commission and the member states stressed the need for much more substantial progress than we have recently seen in the peace process. we urge - and we will continue to urge - the guatemalan government to take regular and consistent action to implement the conclusions and commitments made in the framework of this consultative group. that's the first measure. the second action is to put pressure on the guatemalan government, as part of our cooperation, to respect the 1996 peace agreements, and we are financially supporting - as you know - concrete initiatives in this area, including measures to strengthen and modernise the national civil police. the purpose of this programme is to encourage the guatemalan authorities to take the necessary measures to prevent any breach of the rule of law and to redouble their efforts to make the country more democratic and fair. this initiative will be followed in the coming months by a new cooperation programme for the judiciary in guatemala. during the period 2002-06, which is the horizon of the union's cooperation strategy with guatemala, we will step up our action in the fields of human rights, the fight against intimidation and the fight against impunity. guatemala is, as it happens, one of the main beneficiaries of the european initiative for democracy and human rights during the period 2002-2004, where we are mainly concerned with the good governance of public affairs, the rights of indigenous peoples, the death penalty and the fight against impunity, which are the points that the parliamentarians themselves have identified some time ago.
mr president, the situation around the entrance to the channel tunnel has been chaotic for months. since last november, rail-freight services at fréthun, near calais, have been severely disrupted by the illegal activities of migrants. i have already raised this matter on two occasions on the floor of this house, on 4 february and 11 march, and our urgency resolution reflects the desperate seriousness of the continuing crisis. on 19 march, the french government replied to initial queries from the european commission, stating that immediate steps had been taken to carry out new security work at fréthun and to provide 24-hour police coverage. however, on 27 march, along with some 150 parliamentarians, rail-freight operators, officials, police, media and others, but with the noticeable absence of any british or french government ministers, i visited the rail-freight terminal at fréthun. we were amazed to see illegal migrants clambering all over trains in broad daylight before our very eyes. the situation was clearly out of hand and it has got no better, in spite of undertakings by sncf to achieve a normal service from 2 april. only this last tuesday, some 100 migrants broke out of a freight train at dollands moor in folkestone. this train had apparently waited virtually unguarded at calais for 24 hours. this situation is unacceptable. besides the human tragedy in the situation, i am concerned that british businesses and some 8 000 jobs are directly at risk, as a result of the state of affairs, including in my own area of the east of england. there are also very serious environmental and other consequences. it makes a mockery of the idea of the free movement of goods across the european union. given the lack of action by the british and french governments on tuesday, i took a deputation to meet the european commission: lord berkeley, chairman of the rail freight group and mr alan roberts, a constituent of mine from hertfordshire, whose family rail-freight organising business has been very hard hit by the crisis at fréthun, went with me to see commissioner bolkestein. he was very sympathetic and expressed frustration at the lack of government action. i now implore the commission to take the necessary further action, including legal action against the french government, as a matter of urgency. businesses require urgent financial assistance in order to be able to continue trading, as well as compensation in the longer term for the losses that they have sustained because of the lack of effective action by the french and the british authorities.
mr president, the desperate situation at fréthun, which i have also visited, demands a response on two fronts. the rail-freight operators and dependent businesses want a response which concentrates on the immediate and long-standing need for sufficient security to keep the freight moving. they are perfectly justified. businesses should not be the fall-guys of government failure to cope with asylum-seekers. businesses need fences at fréthun, but that is also crucial to stop migrants dying. that is the responsibility of the sncf and french government. i am shocked that the socialist group refused to put that in the motion. i call on them, especially british labour meps, to back amendment no 2 on this point. amendment no 6 by the socialist group is hopelessly weak, letting governments off the hook. businesses adversely affected also need finance and they need immediate support and compensation from the two governments. i will also be shocked if labour meps vote against that. amendment no 1 is an eldr group amendment, which calls for the strengthening of the current inadequate intervention powers of the commission to clear obstructions to the free movement of goods. i am told the conservatives are reluctant to support this, but i hope it is not true. the second response required in the calais area is to address the asylum question in a humane and practical way. my group cannot support amendment no 5 by the socialist group because it attributes the situation at fréthun purely to pressure people feel to migrate from their home countries. obviously that is the broad context, which is why the resolution in a paragraph i drafted says the long-term solution must be found in a concerted, european asylum policy. there is also stress on the need for a sensitive humanitarian approach. in the immediate future, the british and french governments must reach a practical agreement to process asylum claims on-site at the sangatte centre, not close it – that would be counterproductive. but the socialist group amendment, probably deliberately, ignores the responsibility of the sncf and the government to deal with the asylum pressures. this is unacceptable. the rail-freight operators are on the brink of collapse. eight thousand workers could be out of a job. i urge support for the motion and for amendments nos 1 to 4.
mr president, my constituents in south-east england will be delighted that this house has found the time to discuss the repeated closures of the channel tunnel. very few people outside my region appreciate the seriousness of the situation. the regular stoppage of freight transport is now reaching crisis proportions. businesses are unable to ship their produce, the transport infrastructure of the southern english counties is clogged, the single market is violated as the circulation of goods is impeded, the police forces of kent and sussex are over-stretched and the influx of illegal migrants is placing a serious burden on local authorities and their ratepayers. it is all very well to demand greater security at the calais-fréthun freight terminal but this is to address the symptoms of the problem, not the cause. if we are serious about bringing the situation under control, we must stand back and ask the question: what is making tens of thousands of people so desperate to get out of france? france after all is not a country that persecutes its citizens. on the contrary, it is one of the oldest and freest democracies in the world. in short, it is hardly a country from which we would reasonably expect people to claim political asylum and yet, night after night, hundreds of people are risking their lives in order to enter britain through the channel tunnel. the british government must take primary responsibility for this state of affairs. the chief difference between britain and france in this field is that when an asylum claim in the united kingdom is refused, deportation almost never follows. consequently, and quite understandably, illegal migrants are determined to reach the one eu state from which they know they will almost certainly not be repatriated. as long as this state of affairs continues, there will be a limitless supply of young people in the sangatte camp seeking by any means to cross the channel. this is an international problem, but it has an essentially domestic solution. the british government must amend its approach to asylum. it must cease to entertain asylum claims when the last point of embarkation is a manifestly safe state, such as france. doing so will reduce the pressure, not only on the channel tunnel, but by extension on france's eastern borders as fewer migrants seek to make the journey. without urgent action from the british government, the strain on the south-east can only become heavier.
mr president, i am speaking in a debate on human rights – although you would have found that difficult to believe if you had been listening closely to the compassionate words of mr hannan. it is a human rights issue that we are discussing here. it is not an easy one and nobody should suggest it is. it has not just become urgent because of the economic effect on business or on the freight industry, for which i have great sympathy. it is a very serious and distressing situation which does nobody any great credit. it has concerned, as others have said, large numbers of people and governments – both in france, the uk and other countries – and local authorities. it is one that my committee in parliament has also discussed on more than one occasion. people could go back and search for different reasons why there are numbers of people there. i reject the very simplistic and inhumane proposals from mr hannan. it is a situation that has worsened over recent years and the problem is much more extensive than he implied. but just as parliament must protect business and the freight industry, so europe – but not exclusively the united kingdom or france – has a duty to care for and protect those seeking refuge. these are desperate people. some have fled in fear of their lives, and we should be able to offer them sanctuary and give them every opportunity to put their claim for asylum. this is what the dublin convention, which we sought to review earlier this week in the marinho report, is all about. we need a dublin convention that enables asylum-seekers to feel safe and secure, to put their claim for asylum in the first eu country which they reach. earlier in the week the other side of the house tabled amendments suggesting that they should be informed of their rights in any language, not necessarily a language that they understand. that is not the way, and it explains why sometimes people move to another country. it is not a question of who supports which amendment and who does not. i personally have no problem with amendment no 2, which i was questioned about earlier. we have to get the system working for the sake of all of the people who are moving around europe. we have to make it safe and working for the industries. we need to work towards a common european asylum system. without that, europe will not function and we will be coming back to these issues over and over again. we need to have a common european asylum system throughout the member states that is understood and that works. i and my colleagues on this side of house and some others will be working consistently for that in the months ahead.
commission. - mr president, the commission is also looking forward to the adoption of a specific international agenda for the coming decade, dedicated to children and focused on concrete measures which the leaders will commit themselves to at the special session of the united nations general assembly next month. the action plan addresses four major areas of concern: health, education, child protection and hiv/aids, which are at the heart of our development cooperation. the commission considers that assistance to and protection of vulnerable children must be seen in the wider context of the fight against poverty and thus in the context of development cooperation implemented by the community. children, in this context, constitute an important target group for external aid, particularly in sectoral policies such as education or health. as regards education, we have recently adopted a communication on education and training in the context of poverty reduction in developing countries. this text calls for a qualitative and quantitative increase in the aid we give to these countries in the field of education. we have emphasized, as many of you have just said, the importance of a rights-based approach. as regards children involved in armed conflict, assistance is also provided through a number of programmes managed by the commission, including the european initiative for democracy and human rights. in addition, in 2001, the promotion of children's rights was one of the priorities for the allocation of resources and was integrated into the funding foreseen for the period 2002/2004. finally, we are also making children a cross-cutting priority in terms of humanitarian aid. this is reflected in concrete projects, in child advocacy activities within the union and in research to improve the humanitarian response of the international community. our actions are in line with the wishes that have just been expressed and this covers various dimensions of the union's external and internal action.
- the joint discussion is over. the vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
- the joint debate on the following five motions for resolutions: - b5-0217/2002 by mr cunha and others, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the situation in angola; - b5-0220/2002 by mr isler béguin and others, on behalf of the green group in the european parliament, on angola; - b5-0230/2002 by mr miranda, mr ainardi, mr vinci and mr cossutta, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on the situation in angola.
commission - mr president, like all the members who have spoken, the commission considers that the signing of a ceasefire by the angolan armed forces and unita is finally good news. the declaration by the angolan government that unita is now a viable actor with a place on the political scene and that it is given time to reorganise itself is, in our view, a step in the right direction. we encourage both sides to take all necessary steps to involve all angolan civil society actors in the discussions, including religious representatives who have played an active role in this regard - as mr lage has just emphasized - with a view to achieving national reconciliation and finally establishing a lasting peace. as regards humanitarian aid - mentioned by mr miranda - we are providing substantial humanitarian aid to internally displaced people in angola and we urge the government to take further steps to facilitate the delivery of emergency aid to areas which are currently accessible. we also encourage the government to give priority to its negotiations with unita on extending this humanitarian aid to the whole of angola. we are well aware that the presence of landmines and antipersonnel mines is a major obstacle to the delivery of humanitarian aid, the resettlement of displaced people and the various rehabilitation operations. from this point of view, it is the strengthening of security on the ground that will enable us to implement, through specialized organizations, everything concerning mine clearance operations, to which important financial resources have already been allocated. on the political rights front, we call on the angolan government to strengthen democracy by improving the situation of human rights and press freedom. this is a prerequisite for lasting peace. the broad categories of political rights, as well as the free movement of persons, the reform of constitutional law, the reform of electoral legislation, the census of the population - all of which are based on the ceasefire - will be decisive for the holding of free and fair elections in the future. we are ready to support the holding of elections as soon as conditions on the ground allow. the strategy for the coming years is currently being discussed with the government and civil society, as well as within the commission and the union. we are trying to ensure that, through this strategy, there is a very close, very permanent and very coherent link between aid, rehabilitation and development, which are the three problems we are facing. significant financial resources will need to be made available for the resettlement of displaced persons, including in the form of micro-projects, as well as for the rehabilitation of agricultural production facilities and livestock structures, in order to ensure gradual socio-economic recovery in areas that have been affected by the conflict. we all know from experience that these areas are particularly delicate tissue for developmental surgery, when they have been plagued by conflict and when they are mined as they are. we will of course continue to provide assistance in health, education and capacity building to the provincial administrations, which will ultimately have to be responsible for establishing and maintaining the social and local structures, systems and tissues. finally, we also welcomed the angolan government's intention to organise an international conference on the reconstruction of the country. we are convinced that all groups in society must be included in the reconstruction project that will be presented, and - subject to further consideration, of course - we are prepared to continue to support it.
- the joint discussion is over. the vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
- doc. b5-0218/2002 by mr fernández martín and others, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the floods in santa cruz de tenerife; - b5-0231/2002 by mr marset campos and others, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on the torrential rains in tenerife and climate change; - b5-0237/2002 by mr medina ortega and others, on behalf of the pse group, on the torrential rains in tenerife and eastern spain and climate change.
mr president, firstly i would like to express my sympathy to those who were affected. anyone who has seen the effects of flood damage, as we have in many regions throughout the european union, will know how devastating it can be, not only to infrastructure but to life and indeed to roads and buildings, as the previous speaker mentioned. but we must also look at the further-reaching effects. people say that floods happen and they cannot be controlled. i want to look further, at the whole situation of climate change, which cannot be overlooked, either in the short or the long term. we must increase our efforts, not only to achieve agreement, but to encourage those who do not and are not prepared to cooperate with the european union. we saw the effects after kyoto, with certain large nations deciding not to support the position taken by the european union. i would urge many of these major nations to support what the european union is trying to achieve regarding climate change, to improve the situation. we must also make clear that we are prepared to condemn those large nations that believe they can do whatever they want to do, without any thought to the effects on others. it is not only the united states – which is the prime mover in this – there are other countries such as australia, and countries in eastern europe, where this problem needs to be tackled. their position is deplorable. we must ask the question how long can we continue to allow people to disturb the rainforests and destroy the balance that has existed for so long.
the commission is aware of the seriousness of the situation in the canary islands and alicante, and we are aware of the seriousness of the damage caused by the floods. i can confirm to you on behalf of the commission that we intend to apply all the measures available in the field of regional policy, the common agricultural policy and rural development policy to enable the reconstruction of the disaster areas and the re-establishment of productive activities. as regards regional policy, for the period 2000-06, the disaster areas in both the canary islands and the alicante region are eligible for objective 1 of the structural funds, and in the context of the monitoring committees for the erdf operational programmes, the commission will examine with the spanish authorities, as you have said, the possibility of possibly reallocating available resources from these programmes to the reconstruction of the infrastructure that has been damaged by these torrential rains. as regards rural development policy, which is part-financed under the eaggf guidance section in the objective 1 region, the measure in the integrated operational programme for the canary islands concerning the conservation of landscapes and the agricultural economy provides, inter alia, for preventive and corrective measures to combat soil erosion, for measures to protect and prevent potential damage and for work to restore and regenerate ecosystems. there is a community amount for this whole scheme of more than 20 million euros and again under the rural development policy and on the valencian community, the integrated operational programme includes a measure for forestry which provides in particular for the restoration of forest potential after natural disasters as well as prevention instruments. the community has allocated more than eur 13 million for this purpose and, as with the erdf, it is up to the spanish authorities, if necessary, to reorient their priorities within the framework of the programming envelope to deal with the consequences of this disaster. on the subject as it was discussed by mr medina ortega, these flash floods which have occurred are unfortunately quite frequent phenomena in the mediterranean or in maritime regions and that is why we have developed with the member states several specific projects on this issue, the results of which will enable us to determine whether it is appropriate to put in place guidelines on the mitigation of these flash floods in the framework of community action programmes. in general, and in the current state of our scientific information, it is not possible to establish a direct link between these weather events and climate change. however, we consider that climate change is the most important ecological threat we face and, as such, the agreements reached in bonn and marrakesh are successes for a multilateral approach to combating climate change. as has just been mentioned, this progress has enabled the union and third countries to obtain the technical elements which will enable them to ratify the kyoto protocol and, as you know, the union's council of ministers adopted the decision to ratify the kyoto protocol at the beginning of march last year and we will all work together to ensure that the instruments of ratification of the kyoto protocol are deposited by 1 june, before the world summit on sustainable development, so that the leadership shown by the union on this issue is symbolised, including in the run-up to the johannesburg summit.
- the joint discussion is over. (the sitting was suspended until 5.30 p.m. pending the vote)
in writing. - i have previously explained to this house how essential the channel tunnel link was to industry in scotland and to the viability of eurocentral at motherwell as the northernmost end of a transeuropean network. we need to reopen the tunnel as a matter of urgency. even if this resolution could be more severe, i support it wholeheartedly.
mr president, i am also just back from the jenin visit and i share the distress of breaches of human rights law by both sides. we must ceaselessly remind mr arafat that suicide bombings are not only morally repugnant but also that they stop us helping him to get a palestinian state. they play into ariel sharon's hands. the majority in this parliament called two weeks ago for a suspension of the eu-israel association agreement. i support an arms embargo but not sanctions, and i am even more convinced on my return that, while it may satisfy our desire to be seen to be doing something, this is a potential dead end. presumably, they are meant to work through the israeli public, feeling the painful bite of loss of exports and jobs, pressurising the sharon government to stop its crazy policies. but in commissioner patten's interview in herat on monday, it was indicated that brussels was frustrated that the israelis did not seem to appreciate the eu link. they regard us with distrust, rightly or wrongly. while palestinians see themselves in a struggle for national liberation from oppressive israeli occupation, 75 percent of israelis see themselves as the principal victims, struggling for national survival. i am not commenting on the justification for these two narratives, but how can it help to cut off, as two british professors have urged, academic and intellectual exchanges? these are channels through which we europeans could convey our experience of using mutual respect to overcome hatreds, helping israelis and palestinians strengthen their dialogue. how would it help to stop funding human rights ngos in israel? if we suspend the association agreement, we will merely reinforce the israeli perception of a perfidious europe. what will our exit strategy from trade sanctions be? what conditions would need to be satisfied to restore the association agreement? i have not heard anyone explain how that will work. it is much better, in my view, to focus on a different paragraph in our resolution: the need for an international force in palestine. if our objective is to be effective in achieving a palestinian state as soon as possible, and establishing peace and justice in the region, we should exert all our diplomatic efforts in that direction and not in suspending the chance for dialogue that we have. (applause)
mr president, i would first like to thank the members who have visited the region recently and brought their first-hand experiences back to us here today. like many other members of the house, in the last few weeks i have met representatives from the middle east who have come here to appeal for our help. like mrs morgantini last week, i had the privilege of meeting very brave and very inspirational israeli and palestinian women who are working together for peace – peace between equals as they see it. they explained to us very vividly way just how desperate the situation is. the work that the palestinians have done in building up the very basics of a state over the past 10 years is systematically being destroyed. most of the women worked for ngos and their files, computers and property had been destroyed so they could no longer continue their work. there have been many resolutions and conferences. they are all essential and there will be many more, but these women did not see the intervention needed to stop further bloodshed. they were calling for a peacekeeping force to protect the people and i believe that we should support that call. a policy of force can never get rid of the levels of desperation and despair that lead to further acts of violence. there must be a just and peaceful solution for the long term, as well as a swift response to stop any further killing now. we must ensure that we keep up the pressure at all levels, in every way we can, to get that lasting peace.
mr president, almost all ordinary citizens of israel wish to live in peace in their own country. they wish to have a country with secure borders and normal diplomatic relations with all its arab neighbours. how can we help extinguish the fire that has devastated palestine and reduced the people to a life of humiliation, fear and deprivation of the basic amenities of life? jewish people, muslims and christian palestinians worked and lived together for centuries before israel was established. the jewish people dreamt about their own country and they got it, and rightly so. the palestinians, both muslims and christians, dream and wish to have their country as well and they will not rest until they have a secure and viable state based on a just and fair settlement. how can the eu help? let us stop being polite and politically correct. to my delight today is the first time in my two and a half years as an mep that i have heard members of this house address this topic with such confidence. we have been gagged for all this time. let us spell out what is needed for such a fair and just settlement; things that we all believe in but are too afraid to say. firstly, israel must have the right to exist with a secure border and it must be fully recognised as a state by all its neighbours. secondly, israel must respect international law and its own national laws, as well un security council resolutions. thirdly, israel must accept neutral international observers under un sponsorship to facilitate a ceasefire. ordinary people, jews, muslims and christians, are fed up with their politicians. they want peace now. let us help them with courage and confidence and say clearly what most of us privately believe, that for palestine to be a viable state, to allow that state to take back the millions of refugees, there is only one border and that is the border as it was before 1967. that is what israel has to pull back to. until that happens there will be no peace in the middle east and that brings the terror, fear and difficulties that we now see in the european union. it is time that we spelt out the way it should be. (applause)
mr president, i share your deep concern at the upsurge in violence which has taken place in the middle east in recent weeks, because both sides appear to have locked themselves into a downward spiral which leaves little room for dialogue and progress towards a final settlement. the only possible solution is one based on un resolutions 242, 338, 1397 and 1402, involving the acceptance of a two-state solution which will give security to the state of israel and dignity to the palestinians. this will involve an eventual total withdrawal from the occupied territories and a dismantling of all the illegal settlements. we should not, however, lose sight of the fact that there is a huge convergence of international opinion as violence increases, which we need to build on. it must also be made clear that the right of return for palestinians can only apply to the new state of palestine, as otherwise the jewish state of israel's, security would be compromised. compensation, however, will need to be considered for those whose properties were expropriated as a necessary prelude to a resumption of meaningful negotiations over a final political settlement. on the one hand, tragically, we have suicide bombers engaged in indiscriminate attacks upon israeli civilians and, on the other hand, there is a tragic civilian loss of life on the palestinian side, when israel sends in its troops to root out those responsible. i did not support the call for an immediate suspension of the eu-israel association agreement as i felt this move to be too punitive and selective at this juncture. i did, however, agree to call for an emergency eu-israel association council meeting to discuss the crisis. in particular, i felt, along with many of my colleagues, that the palestinian authority, which receives eur 120 million a year from the eu, should have done more to restrain the suicide bombers and islamic terrorists. i call upon chairman arafat to condemn, regularly and in arabic, the terrorist attacks, and recognise israel's right to exist in peace behind its 1967 borders. at the same time, i call upon the likud party to remove all references in its manifesto to its claims that the west bank is an integral and perpetual part of the state of israel. nevertheless, i am concerned at the excessive use of force by the army, the disregard of the fourth geneva convention on the application of collective punishments to civilians and the ban on ambulance passage into israel proper which affected wounded civilians, as well as fighters and terrorists, and which, i was glad to see, was lifted the following day. i believe that with the two-state solution the international community has now established the basis for a lasting and durable peace. we must all now seize upon this opportunity from the international community to implement this before we have a major middle-eastern war on our hands. (applause)
mr president, i am a friend of israel and i am proud to be so. i am also a candid friend of israel. those are two words: 'candid' and 'friend'; so let me be a candid friend to israel first of all. yes, israel must accept that there has to be a palestinian state in secure borders. yes, israel must withdraw from the territories which it has occupied these past few weeks. yes, israel must allow the investigation of what happened in jenin to take place, provided that investigation is fair and balanced and takes a view which is objective to all sides. yes, i say to the state of israel that i am not entirely convinced that the action which it has taken these past few weeks will succeed in the object which it sets itself, because i fear it may have created more people who want to engage in suicide missions. so there i am, the candid friend to the state of israel. but as a friend of israel, i am also entitled in this parliament to speak up for it. i say to this house that it has to understand that what israel has suffered these past months, the murder of 418 innocent men, women and children, is almost too much for any democratic state to have to bear. what is israel expected to do about that almost daily assault on its innocent citizens? what is israel expected to do when it is surrounded by countries who do not even, to this day, accept its right to exist? i support the saudi peace plan, but it is a shocking comment that it has taken nearly 53 years for some arab states to come forward with a plan which actually recognises the state of israel. israel, too, must face a situation with yasser arafat, where he not only does nothing to prevent the terrorist actions taking place, but there is the strongest possible evidence that he is actually complicit in what has happened. that is unacceptable in a partner with whom any state, any government is expected to negotiate. i say to this parliament that after the events of september 11, we took a view in the civilised world that terrorism was indivisible. yes, people had rights, but terrorism was unacceptable, there was no such thing as a good terrorist. we must keep that proposal solid, because if we fail, if we say terrorism is ok if it is in the middle east, but not if it is in the united states or europe, then we are making a mistake for which we will suffer. the way towards peace and the way for europe to contribute towards peace is to use its influence in the area, particularly on the palestinians, and to say to them, yes, there should be a palestinian state, yes, there should be a state of israel, but both must have security throughout the years to come. (applause)
mr president, it is right and proper that the european union should focus strongly on human rights issues. i have been in the forefront of those campaigning for human rights, democracy and the rule of law in countries such as burma and zimbabwe, where the re-election of president mugabe last month and the political violence and intimidation that continued to accompany it, were a matter of great concern and make a mockery of international actions. if we are to be more effective in our efforts, then it seems to me that we need to focus more specifically on such areas of genuine human-rights abuse. we should not define the concept of human rights so widely that every human desire and affliction is embraced. we must take care that we do not allow extremists and terrorists to exploit our concern for human rights. while we must be ever watchful of the civil liberties of our citizens, we must ensure that human rights legislation does not intrude excessively into operational areas which affect our ability to protect our law-abiding citizens and our democracies, particularly at a time of heightened threat. human rights must not become a device that helps give comfort, even financial compensation, to those such as terrorists, themselves the worst abusers of human rights. the reports before us today are commendable for their coverage, but they sometimes stray into areas best avoided. to some extent they lose sight of the original concept of human rights. they make no mention of the need for good governance and the fact that corrupt governments in failed states are often the prime source of human rights abuse. these are general points, but there are some specific points that we cannot support. for example, while we strongly support a ban on the horrendous exploitation and abuse of children as child soldiers in countries such as uganda and sierra leone, we cannot support a ban on the recruitment of soldiers under 18 in our own countries. the british army is probably the best in the world. some 5 000 personnel, 4.5% of its strength, are under eighteen. more than a third of its personnel proudly and voluntarily sign up before they reach adulthood. they are not deployed to areas of conflict until they turn 18. it would be a gross mistake and an intrusion into an area of uniquely national competence to try and ban such recruitment. we cannot accept the incorrect interpretation of the geneva convention, or the excessive criticism of us actions in its handling of prisoners at guantanamo, when the united states administration has made it clear that it will ensure that the basic human rights of all those held in custody will be respected. we do not share the enthusiasm for an international criminal court, as currently proposed, which might easily become a political instrument and whose jurisdiction over real human rights abusers, such as terrorists, is unclear. we do not support the communitarisation of foreign policy in the european union. there is much we can support, but i have outlined those areas which we cannot support. instead of constant self flagellation, hand-ringing and searching for flaws in our own democracies we really must be more effective in correcting the constant and massive abuse of human rights which is the daily lot of people is so many far-flung countries.
mr president, let me disagree with the previous speaker. we absolutely have to acknowledge the flaws of our own democracy. that was absolutely germane to the debate about the middle east unless we recognise our own flaws and inadequacies, how can we ever bring about changes in other democracies? that is what these two reports do brilliantly. mrs díez gonzález' report reminds us that we have agreements with human rights and democracy clauses yet we do nothing. we stand by because the economic factors prevent us from acting. we look at the economic provisions rather than the demands of citizens who look to us to improve their lives through the agreements that the eu and its member states have signed and ratified. mr van hecke's report reminds us that there is much that is wrong with the world and brilliantly focuses us on the need for the european union to speak with one voice. as a delegate last week in geneva, i witnessed that the commission is arguably one of the most ineffective commissions known to those long attenders. why? because the middle east is being used as a ball that is being batted between one group of nation states and another. at the same time, what happens? we stand here in this chamber, enjoying this luxury to contradict one another, to belong to different parties, to have different ideas, to have different sexual orientation, a different colour, a different way of life. that is the reality of human rights abuses. we cannot be narrow in the interpretation of human rights. we need to be global. we need to be expansive. finally, a quotation after september 11: 'an attack upon one is an attack upon us all.' that is the reality. that is the immutable principle in the defence of human rights and universal freedoms.(applause)
mr president, i would like first of all to thank mrs díez gonzález and mr van hecke for the enormous amount of work that they have put into their respective reports. i am going to concentrate on the work of mrs díez gonzález because it reflects work i myself began in the early 1990's, after the fall of the berlin wall. there are very few people in the chamber who were here at that time, but i can still see one or two officials from those days. at the time, parliament decided to work closely with the commission in establishing a programme to promote democracy and human rights, primarily in central and eastern europe, but also in those countries close to us and in the wider world, and to put the whole process onto a more systematic basis. that led to the creation of budgetary chapter b7-700, now known as the european initiative for democracy and human rights. the first thing i would like to say is that the success of this scheme is not widely recognised. over a period of years, many millions of euros have been spent on projects large and small, near and far, by and large with tremendous success and a very high profile in the countries in which they have been active. this initiative has been a success. there are criticisms, as with any programme, but by and large we should congratulate the commission on the way in which it handled this matter. however, in 1999, the whole process was reversed. the process under which the parliament and the commission, alongside the g-24, the council of europe and one or two other entities, was involved in the monitoring and selection of programmes. the commission then took on the whole process in-house. i now come to the heart of the recommendations of mrs. díez gonzález' report. should there be an agency for human rights and democratisation? my answer, and the answer of the ppe-de group is: not yet. we think that the commission should still be given the responsibility for maintaining these programmes. obviously, we need to watch it closely, but to create yet another bureaucracy does not seem appropriate to us at this time. i personally have no objection to the restoration by parliament of the committee on human rights and democratisation. this discussion, however, needs to take place nearer the time of the next election. in the meantime, we could surely restore the working party on human rights and democratisation within the foreign affairs committee to maintain the oversight that this parliament should now have on the eur 100 million being spent annually under the budget. my proposition is fundamentally this: parliament, and i am grateful to those colleagues who are still in the chamber, should re-focus on human rights and democratisation. these are political projects, they need political oversight. we should not leave it all to the commission, still less to the council. so, colleagues, let us take an interest again. i am grateful to mrs díez gonzález for focusing attention on this matter. many of her propositions are well worth pursuing, but not the ones i have singled out as being rather bureaucratic. i am very grateful for the work she has done.
rapporteur. – mr president, looking around we could have met in the bar. it would have been a lot more cosy than this. it is nice to see those of you who are here. whilst this appears on the agenda as the wynn report, it has only just become the wynn report. it was the costa neves report. carlos costa neves, who was the budget rapporteur for 2002, has now moved on to the portuguese government, and i for one was sorry to see him leave. he has done a sterling job and i want to put on record my thanks for the work that he has done on the 2002 budget. i understand that the ppe-de group have now nominated mr podestà as the new rapporteur. so i am the in-between bit. hence you have the wynn report on supplementary and amending budget no 2. the council and one or two members are concerned about the amendments that we have tabled. the member states, quite rightly, want the money back that was not spent last year. this amounts to around eur 10 billion, a significant amount of money. it is not the total amount, however, because one amount went back last year, and there is probably still another one or two billion which will come forward in supplementary and amending budget no 3. we have a choice of whether to give the money back to the member states or whether we try to put it to use in other areas. one thing that has been made clear to us is that in next year's budget there could be shortfalls, especially in the structural funds, where the category 2 expenditure on payments may well have to be exceeded. therefore, one of the reasons for our amendments is to alleviate that problem next year by making the monies available this year. consequently, the member states will not receive ten billion back, but something in the region of eur 5.5 billion. the council and certain member states have queried the legality of the amendment and our right to do this. the simple answer is yes, we do have this right. we have done similar things since 1994, which have never been challenged by the council, because it recognises that, at the end of the day, it is the treaty that counts, and the treaty gives parliament the final say on the budget when the president signs the budget. consequently, what we consider a routine operation in amending this sab has given one or two of our friends in the council some ideas about challenging it from a legal point of view. i think they would be unwise to do that. the second problem seems to be that we will delay the new system of own resources by not voting the sab through in its entirety tomorrow. well, yes, we will, but that is not our fault. the commission, out of the goodness of its heart, was trying to do the council a favour by putting these changes into this sab. we want to see them too, but quite frankly, the sooner we get the sab voted at our second reading, on the assumption that the council does not agree with our first reading, then the changes will come about. a third criticism from the council is that there is no chance whatsoever of spending the money this year. if that is the case, we could do something about it later on. as i said sab 3 is coming. we have asked the commission for information on how the money can be spent, whether it can be spent in time or whether all of it can be spent. if the commission comments support the council's position, then of course we will have to re-consider. if we do not do it under sab 2, then we could certainly do it under sab 3. for those trying to read between the lines, i hope that message is pretty clear, because this is not just about this particular sab. there are other consequences. if i use the words 'financial regulation' then the penny may drop with some people and they may begin to understand what i am talking about when i keep mentioning sab 3. another aspect here is that some member states, including my own, will say that there will be a hole in their own budgets. they are right. the easiest way to fill that hole is to get this business sorted out as quickly as possible. this is linked, however, not only to sab 2 or sab 3, but also to the financial regulation. i would hope that with the good cooperation of all three institutions this issue can be put to rest in the not too distant future, to make the council happy, to make ourselves happy and to make sure that the commission can get on with doing the job that it wants to do.
mr president, can i say that everyone in the chamber this evening knows that the reason why this money is being held back in the system. it is because there is a great need for structural funding to be spent in our various countries and regions. we are now some two and a half years through the seven-year programme 2000-2006. we are thus over 30% of the way through, and we have grossly underspent. what we are doing now is giving the member states the chance to get their act together and to spend this money, to help improve the environment, working conditions and employment prospects throughout our european union. this is for the betterment of the economy as a whole and of conditions in our areas. we are taking a responsible attitude and i am delighted that we have unanimity round the chamber this evening. i hope this will be reflected in the voting tomorrow. it is very important indeed for us to make sure that the countries spend this money, to allow the private sector to get its act together because, at the end of 2006, with enlargement, we, the existing fifteen countries, will lose the ability to have structural funding. the other five or ten countries coming into the european union will demand structural funding for their countries. we will have a very rapid cut-off. it may well be that we do not even allow any overlapping into the year 2007-2008 on the spend if it gets further behind. i therefore urge every single government throughout the european union to use this money, use it effectively and use it quickly. i thoroughly endorse the chairman's guidance to us, as team captains so to speak, to make sure that we vote conclusively together tomorrow to withhold the necessary money and urge those countries to spend it properly.
mr president, i would prefer that we would have had no directive whatsoever on whole-body vibration, because even the iso standard report says there is no quantitative link between whole-body vibration and lower back pain. however, having said that, i am very pleased that we have reached an agreement. it is not ideal, but it is better than it might have been. i would have liked it if we had kept the derogation for agriculture and forestry. that was extremely important, but i am pleased, however, that we have agreed that agricultural machinery will not have to be changed until 2014, that is, if the machinery has already been bought by 2007. i am also pleased that we have moved back to the common position limit value of 1.15 m/s2. it is far better than what the pse group rapporteur suggested in the first place, which was 0.7 m/s2. the ppe-de group suggested 0.8 m/s2. we have moved back to something that is reasonably sensible. if we had not, tractor and dumper-truck drivers would have had to drive their tractor or their dumper-truck for between two to four hours. there is still going to be a problem with harvest time, but most of industry can cope with this apart from the agriculture sector. those of us who insisted that the levels suggested in the first edition of the report were unworkable won the day. i would like to congratulate everybody on the hard work they put in. we have achieved a worthwhile compromise. it is not ideal, but i will reluctantly be asking my group, eldr, to vote for the directive.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this report which we should see it firstly in the overall context of rebuilding fish stocks. the key points are firstly rebuilding fish stocks and secondly the need to devise ways of measuring fleets. i welcome mr kindermann's work in this area. he has given us some very good pointers such as reminding us that we are not dealing with one single community fleet, but with fishing fleets of individual member states and that each member state has its own quota for individual fish stocks. as for the data that the report is based on, we should remember that member states have until the end of 2003 to report new figures and bear in mind that we still do not know how many ships are in the eu fleet. this is worrying and must be rectified. i welcome mr kindermann highlighting this. my final point is that member states should pass on information to the governments and parliaments in the member states. fishing is one of the mainstays of rural life in scotland. i know that my constituents would want to ensure that the scottish parliament is kept fully and directly informed of developments at the european union level.
mr president, i thank the rapporteur for his work in this area. it is clear that the capacity of the eu fishing fleet is greater than available resources and that therefore firm action is needed to allow many fish stocks to recover to sustainable levels. reductions in the fleet are thus essential. the overall fishing effort must be controlled as well as fleet size so as to correspond to the resources available. the commission should better assess the impact of so-called exploited capacity by certain member states who, at least on paper, claim to have met their megp target. the commission should also ensure stricter enforcement of existing penalties on certain member states so that the member states themselves are penalised and not the fishermen. i hope the house will support the amendment which was originally tabled in committee by my group colleague, mr nogueira because it is very important. fisheries in certain areas of the european union, including scotland, are a devolved responsibility and it is important that direct communication between ourselves and devolved parliaments should be standard practice.
the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has been working. the final results of the monterrey conference are encouraging and give rise to renewed optimism for the world summit on sustainable development in johannesburg in september. the success of monterrey is due, among other things, to the innovative format of the conference, which has allowed the bretton woods institutions and the world trade organisation to participate actively as equal partners. for the first time, the european community has been granted full participation in a un conference. what was originally intended to be a traditional un event has become a much broader meeting which will hopefully continue to promote cooperation and coordination between the main actors. the format of the conference was also innovative in that the final document of the so-called monterrey consensus had already been agreed in new york in january. and since there were no negotiations in the strict sense, the conference participants focused on round-table discussions alongside the events and bilateral meetings, rather than just discussions on the wording and drafting sessions on the final document. the debate focused on possible concrete commitments, bilateral initiatives and concrete contributions. the conference also built on the unique global consensus reached at the millennium summit on development goals and policies and development indicators. the main challenge for the conference on financing for development was therefore to mobilise the financial resources needed to achieve the millennium development goals. this gave the conference a clearer and more specific objective. the events of 11 september profoundly affected the way in which the international community viewed and understood this conference. the events have tragically brought to the attention of a wide public, far beyond that of the community concerned with development policy, the extent of the interdependence. against this background, we can also see what is probably the most important and visible result of the conference, namely the parallel commitments by the european union and the united states to increase their official development assistance by a total of another 20 billion dollars and 10 billion dollars respectively by 2006. president bush's announcement of a $5 billion allocation, which was then increased further during the week to move closer to the eu's position, also reflects a rethinking of us development policy, which has been continuously cut over the past 20 years. it is not an arrogance, but we as the european union have the lead and we can make it stand out. these widely welcomed commitments were the necessary response to the declared willingness of most developing countries to mobilize domestic resources and to accept the requirement of good governance. they can therefore be seen as part of the implementation of the monterrey consensus and are in line with the european union's development policy approach to a global agreement that also covers dohar, monterrey and johannesburg. monterrey has not lived up to expectations in some respects. let me mention three key aspects: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. in view of these systemic problems, the monterrey consensus simply emphasises the importance of giving greater weight to the voice of developing countries in the international financial architecture. but there are no concrete proposals. the document maintains a general statement on the need to address these issues in greater detail with regard to innovative sources of financing for development. global commons are not mentioned at all. the johannesburg conference therefore provides an opportunity to address these issues once again. i think we should take this opportunity. the commission's role in this process is one of the most important aspects of the community's external relations. even before the laeken council, the commission had already made a political commitment to the member states to increase their oda significantly. the first step in this direction was taken at the development council on 8 november last year, which instructed the commission to look into these matters. this process then led to the decision of the barcelona european council, where member states agreed for the first time to coordinate their development budgets and, in particular, to give the commission a coordinating role. i think these results speak for themselves. (applause from the centre)
madam president, i was one of the five members of parliament who went to monterrey and i want to put it on record that what mr. nielson did before the monterrey conference was extremely good. he persuaded the 15 member states of the european union to make a commitment that by 2006 their contribution for development finance will be 0.33% of gdp. many member states are currently contributing much less than this. this achievement embarrassed the united states, because it realised that its contribution is very small indeed. the european union gives usd 25 billion: it is the largest donor in the world. the united states gives usd 10 billion. this is a very small sum when you think that the united states has given its military establishment usd 100 billion since september last year, and that is why president bush promised a further usd 5 billion in development finance by 2006. that would bring the us contribution up to usd 15 billion, which is still very low indeed when you think that people like bill gates give usd 1 billion as personal donations. because mr fischler is here, i would like to say that eu agricultural subsidies are killing the poor farmers in the third world. he knows this and i know he is in favour of persuading member states to do something about the food mountains that we create. this was widely discussed in monterrey with the international fund for agricultural development. i and my colleagues met with the president of ifad. it was made very clear that unless we invest this development finance in the rural economies of poor countries and boost their agricultural production, we will have a breeding ground for deprivation, terrorism and internal conflicts. this is because these are the people, the majority of them living in rural areas, who are too poor to grow their own food and too poor to buy the eu's surplus food. i would like to make one other point about hiv, aids, tb and malaria. the monterrey conference did not discuss these issues at great length, and did not commit itself to allocating funding to them in a special category.
in writing. - although i voted in favour of this directive, i still have some reservations. while health and safety are obviously very important, we must be careful to propose texts based on sound scientific evidence and research. after careful examination of this file, i have been unable to find any concrete scientific evidence to support the whole-body vibration proposal. i am concerned about the effects of such a measure on the agricultural sector - because of the nature of the work. but i am also afraid that the groups most affected will be small farmers and those working in small-scale mines and quarries, because they will not have the manpower to put in place a workable rotation system.
mr president, our group was extremely pleased at the result of the vote this morning. we now have a much more positive view on reception conditions, in particular, issues such as more rapid and widespread access to education and vocational training, not just education for children. we welcome the wider access recommended for all forms of healthcare, particularly psychological support for victims of torture and others who have undergone severe trauma. we are also very pleased that the amendment widening the definition of the family went through. we are aware that this is something which is very controversial in this house but at long last we are beginning to recognise that the nuclear family is not the only model which is applicable. we regret that certain members of this house seem to feel that it is acceptable not to regard those seeking asylum and other forms of protection as having equal rights in terms of social security and other forms of security in the workplace. i am sure that is something that will also change. it is a pity that the council appears to have already made up its mind before listening to the views of parliament, and that once again we are running to catch up with the process. i think the council would treat us with much greater respect if its timetable actually allowed us to give our position before it took its final decision. overall we welcome the changes made by parliament on this particular report and hope that it is not too late for the council to take account of them.
in writing. - the british conservative delegation is deeply committed to well-defined human rights but abstained in the vote on the annual report on human rights in the world in 2001, written by mr van hecke, for the following reasons: - it makes no mention of the need for good governance, or of the fact that corrupt governments in certain failing states are often the main cause of human rights violations; - while we wholeheartedly support the prohibition of the appalling exploitation of children recruited as child soldiers in countries such as uganda and sierra leone, we cannot support the prohibition of soldiers under 18 in our own countries; - we cannot accept misinterpretations of the geneva convention or excessive criticism of the us treatment of prisoners at the guantanamo base, whereas the rights of all detainees will be respected; - many of our members are in favour of the death penalty - and decisions on the death penalty should be taken at national level; - we do not share the enthusiasm expressed for the international criminal court, which could easily become a political instrument and whose jurisdiction over persons who actually violate human rights - such as terrorists - is unclear.
mr president, i had hoped that we would have the opportunity for an urgency on the subject of the plane-spotters (12 british and two dutch nationals) who were convicted on 26 april at a court in kalamata in greece. they were given very severe sentences. i am speaking especially on behalf of my constituents, paul and lesley coppin. they were found guilty of offences which were not an offence in their own countries. the sentences were totally disproportionate. this throws doubt on any ambition to develop an area of freedom, security and justice in the european union based on mutual trust between judicial systems. it certainly reveals potential flaws in the european arrest warrant. mr president, i should like to ask you to express our concern to the greek authorities and urge them to expedite the appeal process for the plane-spotters with a view to quashing their convictions.
mr president, you will be aware of the great sense of shock at the fatal rail accident which took place last friday at potters bar station in hertfordshire, claiming the lives of seven people and injuring some 70 people. while the accident investigations are still taking place, this is not the time to draw conclusions, but i hope that, on behalf of parliament, you will send condolences and sympathy to the families of the bereaved by the way of the british authorities, and also encourage the commission to continue its liaison work with the rail administrators in safety matters. this is an extremely busy commuter line; literally thousands of people travel on it each day. i, with many others, travelled the exact route the evening before. a few miles up the line is the site of the fatal accident which took place in hatfield only 18 months ago. therefore i believe your initiative in this regard would be greatly appreciated.
mr president, i rise in defence of sellafield british nuclear fuels and the workers in that establishment who maintain the highest possible standards in their work. we are rather tired of our friends across the irish sea not remembering which way the prevailing winds blow and having no respect for the vast body of scientific and other evidence which supports the good work that sellafield does. i wish our irish friends would concentrate on their own affairs and not seek to interfere in the internal affairs of another member state.
mr president, i rise to request that you write to the indian authorities again about the case of ian stillman, the british deaf charity worker who was imprisoned in india, convicted of drug smuggling. as you are aware, he was not provided with sign language interpretation at his trial. i am grateful that you wrote in the past, but last week his leave to appeal to the supreme court was turned down. the lead judge remarked that disabled people and deaf people are prone to carry drugs, which i thought was absolutely disgraceful. i would be grateful if you could write again, and also use your good offices in relation to the plane spotters. the issue here is one of the government and the judiciary, but of the government and the security services.
mr president, a key role of this parliament is to put the spotlight of parliamentary scrutiny on the dim recesses of the commission and the even dimmer nooks and crannies of the council of ministers. our credentials for doing so will be immeasurably enhanced if our own house is in order, and i therefore congratulate the rapporteur, mrs maij-weggen, on her very open approach to this issue. we must ourselves be as open as possible. i would like to draw attention to two particular issues from my perspective as vice-chairman of the committee on petitions. i support the report when it says that petitions should only be made publicly available with the consent of the petitioners. for most petitioners that is no problem, since they want as much publicity as possible, but there are occasions when they need confidentiality. for instance, if i may cite the lloyds of london petitions, one of the so-called names was told that if he complained to parliament or the commission, then any financial compensation being paid to him by lloyds could be withdrawn – a very serious threat indeed. i cite that as an example in the public domain, but there are others. that we have to push for more transparency with other institutions remains clear. again to quote the example of the lloyds petitions, the commission last december announced that it was considering infringement proceedings against the british government. the british government responded to the commission's letter of intent on 30 april, the very last day available, but still the commission and the british government refused to allow parliament or the petitioners to know their response. i condemn that secrecy on the part of the british government and the commission, and i want them to be absolutely transparent, which is why we must shame them into transparency by being open ourselves.
rapporteur. – mr president, the tragic events of 11 september in the united states gave new impetus to the reinforcement of arrangements for aviation security. the european council meeting the day after the terrorist attacks on the usa, instructed the transport council to evaluate the measures to be taken to improve aviation security and complete its consideration of those already proposed. the draft regulation itself was fairly straightforward and was amended at first reading. however, the attached technical annex, based on the european civil aviation conference, ecac, document 30, was not amended until second reading due to the fact that the high-level group had been updating the annex which was only finalised last november. whilst parliament responded speedily to that challenge, and i thank colleagues from all parties for their support, we believe that this should not lead to a lower level of parliamentary scrutiny and reserve the right to amend in second reading the revised annex to this regulation adopted by the council in its common position. throughout this process, i have met with representatives from the council and the commission and consulted widely with the industry. the draft regulation principally concerns access control and passenger luggage and freight screening on the ground at airports and is outlined fully in my explanatory statement. the scope does not extend to onboard security which may need to be addressed at some future date. the technical standards themselves are those adopted by ecac in 1992 in its document 30 part 2, relating to security issues revised in january 2001 which, as already mentioned, has recently been updated. ecac membership extends to 38 european states including all eu member states. it is worth pointing out to parliament, and perhaps the council, if there is anybody there, that this agreement reached by the 38 countries, will set a precedent in so far as for the first time the agreement will have binding force upon its contracting parties. document 30 previously had been used for general guidance only. the outcome of the council of transport last december was more than disappointing, as all the amendments supported by parliament were rejected in the common position. nevertheless as rapporteur, i took a decision to re-table all amendments which had been adopted and shall touch on five areas which are fundamental to parliament's position. firstly, member states must assume responsibility for additional security costs in the light of the terrorist attacks and recognise their moral duty to protect their citizens. these attacks were against the nation states. i have submitted an amendment to this effect, and i am now pleased to say that there is cross-party support for this measure. secondly, inspections of airports should be unannounced if airports are to be inspected in real operating conditions, as is currently the case in some member states. thirdly, whilst recognising that some member states and indeed a minority of meps reject the measure of 100% screening of staff, i insist that this is a pivotal point in this legislation. it should be said that some member states already implement this measure. terrorism has taken on a new dimension. it is misguided to believe that there should be lower standards of security for staff working in restricted areas in airports than for passengers. history has shown us that, over the last 30 years in the vast majority of cases of terrorist acts, such as hijacking and incidents such as lockerbie and 11 september, lax security measures and personnel who have had unfettered access in airports have played a significant part. i am pleased to say that the majority of meps in committee overwhelmingly supported this amendment. fourthly, it is vital that, as is the current practice in iata and ecac, the aviation industry itself is involved in the implementation stage of this regulation, not least because it would ensure that measures are practicable and operationally viable. fifthly, on a general point, we are calling for more effective international cooperation in the area of exchange of information for security purposes. finally, we are all aware of the catastrophic effects of 11 september on the aviation industry and tourist sector. around a quarter of a million directly related jobs were lost worldwide and some fifty thousand in the eu alone. not only big businesses were affected, but thousands of small businesses as well. this report is not the sole solution, but it is an enormous step in the right direction, providing that member states recognise their obligation to protect their citizens by accepting their responsibility to contribute financially to these additional security measures and taking urgent action to restore public confidence, which would assist the aviation industry, the tourism sector and the european union as a whole. i urge the council to listen to parliament.
mr president, i am speaking on behalf of my colleague klaus-heiner lehne, who is the shadow rapporteur for our group. it was important for him to attend the meeting of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market that is taking place now. it is unfortunate that those clashes cannot be taken into account in scheduling these debates, because this is a major piece of legislation from our committee. i wish to thank mrs berger for a very comprehensive and thorough piece of work and for being very persistent in presenting her arguments to us. it must be said that our group – and i hope many colleagues will agree with us – has tabled a number of crucial amendments to this directive. we believe they reflect the overall balance of opinion in this house about the importance of maintaining an entirely consistent approach to our work in this absolutely crucial area, and a consistent approach to the work of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market in the areas of electronic commerce and in creating the internal market as a whole. i suggest that we in this house have been entirely consistent. it is the commission and the council that have moved away from the direction that my colleague mrs oomen-ruijten established at first reading. in the e-commerce directive we established the principle of country of origin as being crucial to e-commerce transactions. in our work on distance marketing of financial services, where we robustly supported the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, we followed that line as well. the whole project of creating a single market – an internal market for financial services – is one of the most important projects we are working on at the moment in terms of meeting the lisbon objectives and creating the sort of dynamic economy that we must have across the european union. the distance marketing of financial services directive does not just apply to e-commerce but is crucial in terms of moving to a single cross-border market. but what do we find? we find in the proposal from the council that the 15 member states will be able to vary requirements on two crucial elements: prior information given to consumers and aspects of the right to withdrawal from contracts. what sort of single market will we create? what sort of signal will we be sending to the council and to the market outside if we accept a proposal from the council that allows 15 different sets of conditions to go forward? i suggest to you – and i hope this house will take forward our recommendations – that when we vote tomorrow we should not accept this compromise. it is not satisfactory. conciliation is the only way to resolve it, but we must be consistent with the principles of this house. i ask you, on behalf of the group, to support those amendments.
mr president, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur warmly on the excellent way in which he has handled this piece of work. it was adopted unanimously in committee and, thanks to his adept handling of the matter, it seems set to be finalised through an informal conciliation under the spanish presidency. that, as he has said, depends upon a clear commitment from the commission that a declaration will be included in that informal conciliation to cover the situation of economically dependent or subordinate workers – not a very elegant description, but we all know which workers are meant. we all know the problem: full-time permanent workers, the core staff in many enterprises around the european union, are becoming less and less numerous, with concentric circles of less formal employment relationships surrounding that core. the current directive will extend insolvency protection to part-time and fixed-term contract workers, but what about temporary agency workers? what about self-employed workers who are in a position similar to employees but who do not have an employment contract? what about workers working zero-hour contracts which are becoming more popular in certain parts of the european union? this is all part of a broad approach which, for us, is about balancing flexibility for work places, enterprises, and a degree of security for the workers working within and moving between those enterprises. we, in the pse group, firmly believe that only in that way will all working people embrace the process of change. otherwise a barrier will be put in the way of that process of change. the recent agreement on a directive on working time for long-distance drivers, which will include self-employed workers, shows us a possible way forward. the commission, as the rapporteur has said, must commit itself to completing the study it has under way, a joint hearing with parliament and then legislative or other action to follow that hearing. for us as well this is about an overall proactive and socially responsible approach to the management of industrial change. we in the pse group have called since the beginning of this mandate for a modernisation of the law governing transfers and insolvency and, indeed, consultation in the form of the european works council directive. we hope that the remaining elements of those changes will be introduced as soon as possible by the commission. i had a recent example in my own constituency where a company called viasystems registered offshore before declaring insolvency, thereby avoiding the application of certain aspects of insolvency law. the subsequent phoenix company which arose from the wreckage through a management buy-out shed over 500 jobs. those people were made redundant, some of them with more than 30 years' pension and other entitlements which they lost completely. clearly we still have a lot of work to do. this is a step in the right direction.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. – mr president, i am speaking here on behalf of my colleague, mr bradbourn, who was the rapporteur for our committee, though i was very much involved in drawing up the opinion. i should like to say first of all to mrs torres marques that she has produced an extremely comprehensive report with a lot of good ideas in it. i would say to mr liikanen, whom i am pleased to see here in a different guise from when we normally engage in debate, that i read his proposal with great interest. i want to emphasise that the line taken by my committee in our opinion is that we are looking for areas where the commission can add value. we are not looking for new treaty competences. we are not looking for new layers of bureaucracy in an industry which, as mrs torres marques has rightly pointed out, is characterised by the very large number of small- and medium- and owner-operated businesses. the last thing we want is lots of bureaucratic information collection and even ideas like new observatories. the commission has a role in adding value, in promoting ideas about benchmarking and sharing information about standards, but industry players and local authorities must be engaged in that process. i emphasise that they have to add value to the process. mr liikanen's portfolio is a very broad one already. i do not want to see him diverting a lot of resources into something that is primarily a competence of member states and should remain so. in that connection, i do not want to see us use the ideas about tourism – and certainly, as mrs torres marques has said, it employs a lot of people – to call for centralising measures, for new tax centralising measures or for new measures that might engage regions directly instead of member states. we should clearly be discussing tourism issues but we should be quite clear about where the responsibility lies. we should say to the commission: add value, look for solutions but do not add to your treaty competences.
mr president, first of all i should like to thank our rapporteur, mrs torres marques, not only for her work on this report, but also for her dedication to the tourism cause in this parliament, which goes back some years now. i believe we are faced with a contradiction – a contradiction that emerges clearly as mr harbour speaks on behalf of mr bradbourn, speaking on behalf of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy in this field of tourism. i believe we need eu competence in the field of tourism, not only to enable tourism to develop in terms of staff and standards and give us a coherent and coordinated tourism policy, but also – and i thought the conservative group would have really taken this to their bosom – because the present scenario is holding back profit generation and the opportunities to make money in that sector. tourism contributes 5% of the eu's gdp. it employs thousands of people in the member states and yet we have no eu competence. we are faced at this moment with numerous – i do not know how many exactly – tourism policies reflecting national, regional and even local priorities that differ from each other. it appears that we have a tourism ship that is sailing the seas with nobody on the bridge to direct it or to control it. that is not the fault of the commission or this parliament. the fault lies squarely with the member state governments. even within national boundaries, tourism suffers from this effect of other interests – parochial interests. we really need to take the opportunity presented by mrs torres marques to get to grips with this problem and to produce for the european union a coherent tourism policy that will work and be of benefit to the people of europe.
mr president, the european year of education through sport will provide an excellent opportunity for promoting the social importance of sport within our society and will be a very powerful tool for promoting integration. one third of europe's citizens pursue a physical activity on a regular basis, making sport one of the most significant social phenomena in europe in the 20th century. sport is an excellent way to engage people in their communities. it can contribute to education and lifelong learning, as well as promoting qualities of leadership, citizenship and teamwork. the year of education through sport should concentrate on the social inclusion aspect of sport. however, for this to become a reality, we need to provide better facilities within deprived communities. what i am deeply concerned about is the lack of group leaders and volunteers to run sports projects, especially in the more depressed regions. what will be in the programme to address this? also it is important that projects chosen should provide a firm foundation on which to build. the momentum provided during 2004 must carry on beyond 2004 – it should not stop there. it should become an established part of projects within our communities. the involvement of local and regional authorities also during the year will be crucial to its eventual success, as they are in a unique position to ensure that the widest possible access to local community action is achieved. sport is not only a form of entertainment for the spectator. it also has a strong social dimension and it is this social dimension that should be one of the main themes during the year. all sports should be included, not just the mainstream sports – and we need to emphasise this throughout the programme. it is also important to link projects started under the european year of disability in 2003 with sporting projects for the disabled in 2004. no one should be excluded. i thank the rapporteur for an excellent initiative and look forward to participating in the development of the projects throughout the year.
mr president, regarding this request from the council in respect of a commission proposal for a council regulation establishing specific access requirements and associated conditions applicable to fishing for deep-sea stocks, i would like to say that i have consulted with the rapporteur, and i call on the house to reject this request. deep-sea stocks are fished stocks caught in waters beyond the main fishing grounds of continental shelves. they are distributed on the continental slopes or around sea mounts. these species are slow growing and they are particularly vulnerable to over-exploitation. since fisheries for these species have developed in recent years, it is necessary to establish a management system to ensure that their exploitation is sustainable. the scientific advice that we have received indicates that the most appropriate conservation measures for these species would be based on effort limitation and, in certain cases, on reduction. this proposal introduces elements of a system for the management of fishing effort directed at these deep-sea species. it also includes elements for the collection of data and support of scientific assessment and appropriate management. under this proposal, fishing effort will be limited to recent levels and improved data will be made available for scientific assessment. the commission intends to propose further elements of an effort management system, as required by scientific advice in due course. the proposal is complemented by a separate commission proposal to restrict catches by means of quota management. this is an urgent and important matter, but it is one on which, until now, no community action has been taken. it therefore requires very careful consideration by our fisheries committee. the council's request for urgency was received on the 3 may, while our first exchange of views on this is only scheduled for 22 may. given the lack of action by the commission to date, i do not think it seems unreasonable to allow a few months for parliamentary scrutiny. it also seems to me bizarre that the council should request urgency in this matter when our understanding is that the president-in-office of the council has himself been involved in attempts to derail the timetable of publication of the cfpe reform proposals. therefore, i call on the house to vote against this request for urgent procedure.
mr president, i should like to add my congratulations to those already expressed to the rapporteur, to the spanish presidency and to commissioner busquin who has been exemplary in his patience, understanding and respect for parliament's opinions. clever people all over europe are waiting to hear what we decide this week, because next year they will be able to use their brains on our behalf. we will give them the money to do work which will help our economy and our society. there is a strong correlation between research effort and economic success, and the european union at least is giving an example and showing that it understands that connection. we have been able to reach a very wide consensus in parliament across political and national boundaries on the sixth framework programme. we are coming up with a programme which highlights key areas for research but at the same time expresses the wishes of the citizens of europe for scourges like cancer and other illnesses and for environmental dangers to be combated with intelligence. this is one part of the european research area. member states must do the rest. it is their responsibility. the european union is doing its part. thank you to those who have enabled more money to be spent on the important area of science and society which includes a detailed examination of ethics. we in the pse group will not support amendments on ethics, but we appreciate the declaration which has been brought forward. at the end of a long process, may i thank once again our excellent rapporteur who has worked in a remarkable way, our shadows and everyone else involved. clever people of europe, the money is on its way! (applause)
mr president, as author of last year's report on the future of the biotechnology industries, i can only welcome most warmly the high priority given to the life sciences in the sixth framework research programme and strongly supported in mr caudron's excellent report. on the health side, there are great prospects for breakthrough cures for some of mankind's most dreaded afflictions: cancers, heart disease, diabetes and cystic fibrosis, all the neurological diseases – such as alzheimer's, parkinson's, dementia, motor-neurone, spinal and brain injuries. genetic intervention could eliminate hereditary disasters such as haemophilia and huntington's corea which overshadow some families so tragically. on the crop side, the potential is no less exciting, even if this suffers from a campaign of denial from certain shameless vested interests. hundreds of thousands have died and continue to die from smoking and road accidents, but no one has ever died from genetically modified crops or foods. so much potential good is available to us in reduced applications of herbicides and pesticides, in reduced energy consumption and co2 releases, and in better quality and higher yields. this is before considering the potential in the developing world for feeding the starving, growing crops in drought-ridden and saline soils, rectifying vitamin deficiencies and so preventing disease for millions. i call on the commission and the member state governments to brace their backbones and stand up robustly for what they know is for the good of mankind. our scientific community, our researchers – not least in my scottish constituency which leads in these vital areas – deserve our whole-hearted support, not only in passing mr caudron's report overwhelmingly, but in backing the simplified and legally certain procedure for approving biopharmaceutical products; for approving genetically modified crops and foods for trials and commercialisation; and for protecting intellectual property rights with an economical and effective community patent. approving the sixth framework research programme is only the beginning. we must follow up with the practical steps which will fully realise the potential of biotechnology.
mr president, i am pleased to be the first to congratulate our rapporteur on putting together a package for the budget for 2003 for our parliament. many of the items included in his report are ones which we, as a group, can fully support. in particular the provisions concerning enlargement, especially the inclusion of observers and other provisions. there are, however, three points that still remain of concern to us. the first relates to an early-retirement scheme, which we would like to see applied in this institution as it is applied in others. we would like the council to come forward with the right kind of conclusions so it can be included in the 2003 procedure. this, along with other reforms, will help to prepare our institution for enlargement. there are two other items of greater concern which relate to the way in which the administration responds to the demands and consultation of parliamentarians. the first refers to the interinstitutional recruitment office which we as a parliament, and indeed as a committee on budgets, have been calling for for many months. we now find ourselves faced with a text but without the means either to amend or discuss it. we understand that mr gargani, as chairman of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, has sent a letter this morning to the president stating that committee has concerns about legal administrative questions. my group also shares those concerns and therefore we support what mr stenmarck has put in his report, namely that we would like the relevant committee to have a report on this proposed recruitment office before a final decision is taken. in addition, we understand the council wishes to amend this document and, therefore, we do not see why we, as parliamentarians, should not also have that right. lastly, buildings: my group has discussed the needs of enlargement so far as offices and so on are concerned, and we have put in a request. no decision has yet been taken in my group as to what buildings we need. yet we understand that negotiations are in full swing for the construction of new buildings in brussels, for which authorisation has been given neither politically nor in relation to the committee on budgets, since we have no documents available to us. this is why i have tabled an amendment, on behalf of my group, which calls for this question to be clarified. the podestà report concerns translation and interpretation and there should be a report on buildings to indicate what commitments are needed, unlike in the past when parliament has been faced with a fait accompli, and then had to sign up for the bill. in conclusion, on these two items, we would like to see greater sensitivity on the part of the administration and the bureau towards parliamentarians, because ultimately it is the assembly that is sovereign.
mr president, i too would like to thank mr stenmarck for his report. i agree with him that the estimates in front of us are critical in that they deal with parliament's preparations for enlargement. we all know that this is the greatest enlargement the eu has faced, so it is critical that we get the preparations right in time for 2004. this is especially so in the current climate in which the eu seems to be needlessly coming under attack from all sides. our credibility more than ever depends on getting this right. in this context the need for improved provision for information is imperative and i therefore support the 15% increase outlined in this report for this area. bringing the work of the european parliament closer to the people must be one of our top priorities. it is increasingly evident that all the work we have been doing on information provision has not quite caught the imagination of the european public. i heard recently some evidence from the irish referendum on the nice treaty which shows that citizens who went to parliament or commission information offices for literature were not sufficiently convinced or motivated to go out and vote. if this is indeed the case, we need a fundamental review of what we are publishing and how we are communicating with the people. so what did encourage people to go out and vote? the source of information that encouraged people to go out and vote "yes" most effectively was conversations with friends and family. the clear message for us is that producing mountains of glossy brochures is not getting the message across. i, for one, am continually meeting people who are completely confused about the roles of the different institutions. we need, therefore, to recognise that we must have interinstitutional cooperation on information policy, and such cooperation has been quite slow to develop. i know that some of these issues may be dealt with by the convention and i know the council is talking about opening up its decision-making process to permit greater transparency. however, we need to be more focused and targeted in our approach and i am not entirely convinced that the proposal in this report to broadcast parliament's plenary part-sessions on the internet, will really solve the problem. how many people will be inclined to sit at their computer and watch such broadcasts? before we go down this particular road we should undertake a pilot study and look at the cost-value ratio of this measure. i am also extremely concerned about how the institutions are going to deal with proposals for funding the administrative costs. commissioner schreyer has informed us today that in the proposed pdb for 2003 on administrative expenditure there will be a negative margin of eur 66 million. it is proposed to finalise this through the flexibility instrument. i have enormous reservations about this, because my understanding of the flexibility instrument is that it is meant to be there for unforeseen events. how can we justify using this to the taxpayer for the administrative purposes which are known and have been foreseen for quite a long time? what happens if there is another crisis in the coming year? how will we fund measures to tackle it? commissioner schreyer also made a reference to pensions. i recognise that this is an area in which there has been a dramatic increase in terms of the provisions we need, given the demographic profile of staff in the institutions. surely we need proposals for the long term which look at how we can provide for the pensions by setting up a fund or alternative means,. the issue of budgetary rigour is referred to time and time again. we want greater budgetary rigour, but there are two major issues that the council needs to address if we are to achieve this, and it is a pity it is not here to listen to this: the first one is the issue of the language regime. the area most affected by enlargement within the institution will be staff and the building costs related to languages. whilst i support the right of all meps to speak their own language, we must recognise that we need to rationalise this and we need to recognise the danger of a loss of dynamism in our meetings. the council therefore needs to look at the treaty provisions to see how we can rationalise this area. secondly, the issue of the seat of the european parliament requires urgent attention. this fact alone has a major impact on costs. surely it is time that parliament has one seat.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to include the use of the term 'customs' in the definition of the concept of 'commercial policy'. i could also accept in principle, but after recasting, amendments nos 8, 14, 15 and 18, and reject the remaining ones.
commission. – mr president, i recommend the adoption of the common position without amendment. in discussion yesterday in parliament, questions were raised as to whether there was full harmonisation or not. i want to make a statement to the house that there is full harmonisation in respect of information to consumers prior to the conclusion of the contract on, for instance, the supplier, financial services, the distance contract and the redress mechanism. particular concern was expressed in relation to article 3(4) on the information on contractual obligations to be communicated to the consumer during the pre-contractual phase. in particular, concern was expressed as to whether this was in conformity with the e-commerce directive, and i want to give an assurance that, in my opinion, it is. i refer the house, in particular, to recital 56 of the e-commerce directive. i assure the house that, for instance, web sites will still be subject to the country of origin principle. as for article 42, i would say that this is necessary, having regard to the fact that further harmonisation legislation is still pending and the article is therefore necessary. i urge the house to reject amendment no 49, as the wording of the article is correct, as it says that 'the laws shall be approximated'. this is the normal wording to be found in a directive, and the other form of wording you would find in a regulation. finally, amendment no 50 should also be rejected, as it requires the inclusion of a specific date of 2003, which is inappropriate. the appropriate approach is to stipulate, as is normal, two years after adoption. in the circumstances, the commission recommends the adoption of this without amendment.
mr president, should you not be asking us to vote for the text? you are changing the vote around and reversing it. a "yes" vote should be for keeping the text and a "no" vote should be against the text surely? the last time you did this it was rather confusing.
in writing. - the uk conservatives voted against this report because of growing concerns about the effects and implementation of such agreements. firstly, we are not convinced that agreements which imply a huge cost for european taxpayers and yet seem to bring few benefits to european fishermen in general are appropriate. secondly, we remain sceptical about the financial soundness of such schemes and how the funds are spent. the effect on local indigenous fishermen is constantly highlighted, but the fact that the eu can simply come in and take away these subsistence fishermen's source of income is worrying. finally, we have seen the damage that the cfp has caused to fish stocks in our own coastal areas. the cfp has caused a very serious environmental disaster. we believe it is wrong to suggest that the only solution to the desperate situation of our fish stocks is simply to raise the anchor and go and repeat the exercise in other waters.
in writing. - it is time for the eu to act in the interests of european airlines, given that they are one of the sectors most affected by the events of 9/11. i therefore fully support this report which aims to reduce the financial burden of paying for the increased security obligations faced by airports and airlines today. if european airlines want to remain competitive with their us counterparts, they cannot afford to take on the additional burden that 9/11 so abruptly imposed on them. at a time when us airlines are benefiting from a substantial volume of financial subsidies, tax breaks and state aid, it would be particularly unfair to expect european airlines to survive, let alone to sustain competition, when they are now forced to pay for new measures for enhanced security. i also welcome the proposal to postpone the entry into force of this legislation until 31 december 2003: airlines need time to complete the necessary recycling and to acquire the new equipment required.
in writing. -(en) i fully support this report which recognises the various benefits of sport, from improving sociability and social inclusion to working with and integrating voluntary organisations. here in the european union we constantly stress the need to promote integration: sport is the ideal way to achieve this. for too long sport has been secondary to so-called school education. to relegate sport to the background is to deny the many benefits of sport; it's a discipline where anyone can succeed, regardless of class or race. the promotion of sport thus encourages and highlights the community's other projects, from the fight against racism and social exclusion to the integration of people with disabilities. since so many of the european union's objectives can be partially achieved through the promotion of sport, the eu must promote sport as both a functional and a recreational activity. finally, once member states start to cooperate more in this area and demonstrate how they have integrated sport into their education systems, we will finally understand the magnitude of the potential that sport has to offer us.
in writing. - the tourism industry is important for the economic future of all the member states of the european union, and it is vital that the european union focuses on its own future. indeed, it is estimated that employment in this sector will see a massive increase of 15% over the next ten years. the tourism industry has benefited from the single currency and its continued expansion is directly linked to the fact that european citizens now have higher net incomes. we must not rest on our laurels, however, but ensure that tourism remains dynamic and that growth does not stagnate. that is why i fully support this report. tourism should be based on treaties, not so that tour operators are subject to excessive regulation - as the development of this industry depends on its ability to innovate independently - but so that it is considered a serious european subject. this would also make it possible to establish a kind of unifying european tourism strategy in the long term. this would ensure that tourism continues to grow and meets the future needs of european holidaymakers.
in writing. - i fully support this report, which calls for a revitalization of european youth policy. while it is true that the european integration project has not completely marginalized young people, their importance for the future of europe has not been sufficiently emphasised. indeed, the future of european integration depends on the interest and support of the next generation, and since war is not at the forefront of young people's concerns - and will no longer act as a catalyst for integration - it is vital to include them today. a stronger european youth policy can help support and strengthen national measures to tackle universal problems such as drugs and alcohol. finally, as all member states are faced with the growing apathy of voters - a situation which is particularly regrettable among young people - encouraging young people to engage more in politics is welcome. member states would do better to seek a pan-european solution to this problem rather than an individual one.
in writing. - i find the budget allocated to these absurd round trips between brussels and strasbourg almost impossible to vouch for. there is no political or economic, organizational or geographical reason for such ridiculous wanderings. on the contrary, they only lead to inefficiency and waste. unfortunately, too many people think that this ineptitude is the result of a decision of parliament and are not aware that it is actually the result of the sacrilege agreement concluded for the worst of reasons in edinburgh in 1992 under the presidency of john major. britain obtained a declaration on subsidiarity, an option for exiting the social chapter, fortunately reduced to nothing by the victory of the labour party in 1997. germany won the recognition of croatia and the former yugoslavia, which led to a cascade of civil wars whose effects are still marking european history today, and hence the perpetuation of an absurdity in strasbourg which we all hoped would end. we are now stuck in strasbourg until parliament finds the political will to assert its interests and move to brussels, keeping the occasional symbolic stays in strasbourg for official occasions.
mr president, the timeliness of this debate is beyond dispute. the recent rise of anti-immigrant sentiment in france and the netherlands shows what happens when governments fail to respond to the challenge of immigration. we know that, quite apart from the valuable contribution which immigrants bring to our societies in terms of increased cultural diversity, there are sound economic reasons for a policy of managed immigration, such as meeting labour shortages and funding our creaking pension systems. indeed, our prosperity will depend on immigration. the question therefore is: what policy should we adopt to make immigration politically acceptable? what we must not do, as too many socialist governments have done, is to bury our heads in the sand and refuse to address the challenge. it is in large part the failure of eu governments to police our borders, to tackle discrimination and xenophobia, and to integrate immigrants harmoniously into our societies that has led to this impasse. no wonder public concern continues to grow. the liberal democrat approach would be to open the front door a little, by providing legal avenues for immigration, in order better to close the back door to illegal immigration. this approach has been successfully pioneered by the canadian government, and is reflected in the european commission's proposals for a common immigration policy. it is one we would do well to consider. a policy of managed legal immigration, co-ordinated among member states, does not mean a free-for-all. incentives to immigrants to settle more evenly across their host countries would help. a policy which balances rights and duties, so that those newly arriving understand that they can work in their host country and enjoy free movement in the union and other benefits of eu citizenship, would be helpful too. but they must also understand the need to make an effort to integrate and to live by the rules of the society they join. it is nonsensical political correctness to dismiss any requirement that immigrants should learn the language of their host country. moreover, proper support for integration must be provided and we must combat discrimination and racism wherever it is found. in this regard, i would pay tribute to the work of the european union monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia, and i commend to political parties the charter of political parties for a non-racist society. we also need to invest more in our justice systems and the enforcement of legal judgments – we can only expect immigrants to respect core values if we too ensure that these values are respected fully by existing society. a policy of managed immigration requires tough action to control the union's external borders and i therefore congratulate the commission for its initiative on a common border guard corps. we also need to do more to help the poor and dispossessed, as the commissioner said, in their countries of origin, so that they do not have to resort in desperation to criminal gangs of people-smugglers. most people do not want to up sticks and move elsewhere, so helping to relieve the pressure of illegal immigration is yet another argument, if one were needed, for promoting global free trade and making progress towards the un target of 0.7% of gdp for development aid. as far as asylum policy is concerned, here again the liberal democrat group is broadly supportive of the commission's proposals and often sceptical of actions proposed in council. in conclusion, we believe that there is both a moral and an economic case for managed immigration and a humanitarian approach to asylum. we in the eldr group will support the commission in its efforts to move the union towards the common policies foreseen in the amsterdam treaty. for in the words of that great liberal j.k. galbraith: "migration is the oldest action against poverty. what is the perversity in the human soul that causes people to resist so obvious a good?". (applause)
mr president, i agree with much of what mr watson has just said, even if i do not share his belief in the power of free trade to help solve these ills. i welcome some of the statements this afternoon and particularly the attendance of commissioner patten. for too long, we have seen these issues purely as a question of law and order, rather than international and economic relations. migration is a development issue, as the swedish government has demonstrated by the way in which it organises its ministries. my group is fine with the idea of a common asylum and a common immigration policy if it is going to be of a higher standard than that which we currently have. i have yet to be convinced that this is going to be the case. we have heard a lot this afternoon about the need to control borders, but maybe not quite so much about why people are so desperate to cross them. for some, it is a freely made choice – that is as it should be, and part of what it is we are trying to create with the idea of free movement within the european union. others, of course, come through force of circumstance because they see no future and no economic possibilities for themselves. we have to remember that the remittances from such people often outweigh the aid which our governments give. i think that the european union also has a duty to examine its own policies, to see where these act as factors which actually encourage people to feel forced to migrate. it is a good time to examine this in the run-up to the johannesburg summit on sustainable development. we need to look at sustainable development and the way in which we give economic possibilities to all. i was recently amazed to meet somebody from a romanian embassy, who told me that the environmental clear-up for her country was important, but would have to be done after they had seen to the security of their borders because those were the priorities they were faced with. the other issue which we really need to look at is how we create an immigration policy – allowing people of all skill levels to enter, which is what business tells us we need – as well as looking at legal routes to asylum.
i should like to ask a follow-up question. i am grateful to the commissioner for his reply and i hear him say that he wishes to take time to produce further analysis and to take the wind out of the sails of any potential opponent. i applaud any such effort. unfortunately, what appears to have happened just now is that the wind has been taken out of the sails of the whole reform which has become becalmed. we are now in a position where we hope that we do not see the timetable derailed to the point where we may go beyond the end of this year and find ourselves in 2003 when some important derogations will have expired and we could potentially have a "free-for-all" in our fisheries throughout the eu. that would not benefit any of us and would not benefit fish stocks, which are nearing collapse. we have waited for this reform package for years. our fishermen are suffering. can we have a guarantee – and i am sure the commission can give us this – that it retains its absolute independence in this matter and will not be subject to bullying from any individual member state or any other source?
i wonder whether we have the right commissioner answering questions on this subject given the delay to the package. i accept that mr fischler continues to be committed to a meaningful reform of the common fisheries policy, but i wonder whether he would comment further on the suggestions that improper pressure has been put on other people in the commission. perhaps the president of the commission might be asked to make a statement on this matter. also could he confirm whether the director-general of fisheries was moved as part of a routine package? was it the case that every other person who was moved under that package had only a few hours notice of that move? is it the case that the particular difficulty in getting agreement on the package relates to a very specific part of the package and, if so, why is it felt necessary to delay the entire package of reform?
commission - it is quite clear that in each member state the legislation of that member state must of course be respected. it's absolutely essential. we have said that a research framework programme is a community proposal which has been adopted by codecision between the council and parliament. so obviously we will ensure that the ethics committees that analyse each proposal take into account all the sensitivities and the scientific community and local legislation.
can i ask the commissioner: if this morning's debate is anything to go by, parliament will probably accept the common position subject to the en bloc agreed amendments. but i am slightly at a loss to know exactly what that will mean in this particular area. so perhaps the commissioner could clarify, for example: if an application for embryonic stem cell research came from the uk, or from italy, or from germany, would there be eu funding in each of those cases?
mr president, i would like to ask you to take this opportunity to express your views on the commission's proposal. the commission has had the following statement entered in the council minutes: 'in accordance with the opinion of the european parliament on the proposal for the sixth framework programme and taking into account the opinion of the european group on ethics in science and new technologies, the commission considers that research in the following areas should not be funded under the framework programme: research activities for human cloning for reproductive purposes, research activities aimed at altering the genetic heritage of human beings which could make these changes heritable, research activities aimed at creating human embryos solely for research purposes or for the procurement of stem cells, in particular by somatic cell nuclear transfer' and, of course, also an article on animal experiments which should be replaced. that is the line we have set ourselves. but as i said, every programme, every project in these areas can and should be examined by an ad hoc ethics committee. it cannot therefore anticipate at this stage the kind of proposal that could be made at european level. it is obvious that in each member state the search may be carried out in accordance with the laws of each member state. but at european level, this is the line of action which seems to be most acceptable today by the whole, or at least by a majority in parliament and certainly by a majority in the council.
it is very important. the commissioner seemed in the interpretation to say that embryonic stem cell research would not be allowed to receive funding at all. that is not my understanding of the situation.
commission. - mr president, mr honourable member, the commission has acknowledged in the action plan on life sciences and biotechnology published on 23 january 2002 that this field requires consideration of both ethical and economic, and even industrial, considerations. the commission is convinced that it is possible and necessary to reconcile these two dimensions, including in the field of genetic and pharmacogenomic testing. in practice, this requires, first, that the identification and analysis of legal and social ethical implications take place as early as possible during the development stages and before the technologies are widely applied. it is important to encourage ethicists, legal and social scientists to work closely with scientists and industry to foster mutual education and dialogue involving key stakeholders, including patients, policy makers and the wider public. these approaches will be among the objectives of the sixth research framework programme, in particular the first thematic priority 'genomics and biotechnology for health'. secondly, we want to continue to stimulate research in ethics in order to accelerate knowledge and better understand the different approaches at european level. thirdly, we want a legal and regulatory framework for biotechnology, including genetic testing, to be developed, based on a broad social consensus which can only be achieved through open and two-way communication.
i should like to ask the commissioner whether he will personally be involved in the drawing up and implementation of the work plan which is being produced by the european group on ethics? if he is, will he take into account the fact that these debates involve matters of urgency as well as fundamental principle?
does the commissioner acknowledge that there are questions of urgency in some of the research involved, as well as the fundamental debate on first principles and that this should not be an area in which there is unnecessary filibustering by any ethical committee or group?
mr president, i would like to ask you to give me a brief explanation of your position. these are social problems. however, this debate should not, in my view, delay the adoption of a much broader research framework programme. the problems should not be concentrated on this aspect alone.
on the basis of the discussions on the last two questions and the fact we are approving the research programme tomorrow – hopefully – i would like to ask the commissioner a direct question. it is quite clear that the group on ethics is going to be increasingly important, so are you not a little concerned that there is no clear work plan for it? are you not a little concerned that there is no chairman at the moment? and can you guarantee us personally, that you are going to ensure that the questions that myself and other colleagues wanted to ask you today about the work of this group and the appointment of a new chairman are going to be answered quickly and correctly, in an open and transparent way? i hope that you can give us some quick and clear promises about this because we are very concerned that this is done quickly.
commission - mr president, with regard to the science and society aspect of the new framework programme, to which parliament attaches great importance by, for example, allocating a larger budget to science and society, we have drawn up an action plan to establish contact and develop debate with citizens on these issues. ethical issues are an important part of the science and society action plan. it is clear that in the next framework programme the financial means will be increased at european level to open up as fruitful a dialogue as possible on these issues.
since you, commissioner, will evidently be using the european group on ethics as an instrument for conducting the framework programme on research, can you let us know to what extent you will inform parliament about the advice given to you by that group, about the composition of the group and indeed the discussions that you have with the group and with its chair – when that person arrives?
commissioner, would you not agree that trade is a wonderful way of breaking through political quarrels? surely it is not necessary to recognise the trnc for a kilo of tomatoes grown in the north to be sold across the green line. i simply cannot see that our refusal to trade with the northern cypriots squares with our express desire to see the complete island – north and south – fully integrated into the european union.
- the next item is the joint debate on the two reports by mr trentin and mr marinos, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy.
the commission is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. first of all, i would like to begin with a comment on mr trentin's report. i would like to stress first of all the innovative approach of the report. for the first time, the report is not a general one, but uses the technique of proposing amendments to the commission's recommendation. i would say that it is along the same lines as mrs berès. it is true that we are still carrying out an exercise which does not correspond to the regulations currently in force, but it can certainly be extremely useful for future developments in our debate system. i would like to highlight a number of specific elements in your report which i consider to be of particular importance. i would like to make a preliminary comment on the scope of the report, and i agree with your approach to a global vision, in which aspects such as economic, social and environmental are included, and in that regard i would also refer to the speech by mr blokland, who insisted on the need to pay more attention to environmental issues, when in fact they are quite clearly included in the conclusions adopted on these points at the time. there are two points in mr trentin's report which i would like to stress: his references to investment and to economic and social cohesion. as regards investment, there have been several references throughout the day and i would like to refer to them. in our view, the first key element for investment to work, which is included in the broad guidelines, is a sound macroeconomic policy. that means price stability, lower risk premia, lower interest rates, fully operational automatic stabilisers and, in short, greater possibilities in terms of confidence for investment. however, the broad economic policy guidelines include some more specific elements which may be relevant from this point of view: improving the quality of public finances, with the accumulation of physical and human capital (this is a reference to be found in the document). we also discussed the further development of integrated networks and their efficient use, and i will make a few comments later on the points made by mr goebbels in relation to energy, transport and communications. we are also encouraging investment in knowledge, in line with the lisbon and barcelona agreements, and we believe that we should not only invest in people, in education, in vocational training and in apprenticeships, but we are also proposing a specific target for research and development of up to 3% of gdp, which should be achieved by 2010. i said that when we look at the broad economic policy guidelines, we can also see some specific references, for example, to investments in large networks and how they can be operated more efficiently. i should like to remind you that in the energy and infrastructure networks the commission proposed in december to improve the systems of co-financing by the european investment bank and also proposed the possibility of eliminating some of the bottlenecks in the transfer of services from one country to another, both in electricity and gas, which will allow us to improve interconnections and, ultimately, to achieve our objective of trying to improve our competition in the energy sector by 2005. we are doing something similar in the area of railway interoperability, all with the aim - as i said earlier - of improving the efficiency of our system. it is of course essential - and mr goebbels has referred to this - that investments are sound and that this does not raise problems of misuse of public money. mrs randzio-plath also made some reference to the problem of investment, raising the idea, which seems to me ambitious, of trying to achieve 3% of public investment in the european union, she says, like the united states. this is a point which, however, we as the commission do not raise in quantitative terms, although we do raise it in qualitative terms, and we insist on our broad guidelines sufficiently to highlight the importance of these issues. in his report, mr marinos touches on the stability and growth pact more directly, and in the course of the debate this morning and this afternoon, some elements have been raised which i think are particularly important. mr marinos insists - and i cannot help but thank him for that - on the importance of maintaining the stability and growth pact in its present form. he was referring to not making political concessions especially to the big countries. this has never been the commission's view. the commission's view is that all member states should be treated equally and we have acted in that direction. and we have even acted using some instruments which have given rise to a certain public debate and i am of course referring to the rapid alert or the early warning applied to the situations in germany and portugal, where i believe that in the end, although - as a member of the commission i have insisted on more than once - we are not satisfied with the procedure, we are satisfied with the objective proposed. a second point raised by mr marinos, and also highlighted by some others, is whether the broad economic policy guidelines and the stability and growth pact are complementary instruments or, to some extent, contradictory. the commission sees the broad economic policy guidelines as the general framework and the stability and growth pact as the instrument we have at our disposal for coordinating the specific area of budget deficits. this is a fundamental point in order to achieve the two objectives we seek to achieve through economic policy coordination: that fiscal policy does not impede monetary policy and that there are no externalities or spin-off effects on other countries which have negative effects. we believe that it is essential to maintain the stability and growth pact in its present form and we consider that deficits are the worst enemy of growth, as the experience of recent years has shown us. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the community. this means that the stability pact is not rigid enough to make it impossible to adapt to reality. we believe that the experience of the last two years, and it is clearly defined in our proposals, shows us precisely that the stability pact can work also in situations of declining economic activity. mr jonckheer raised that concern this morning. i would say that the pact has worked well, that the automatic stabilisers have allowed us to use an expansionary policy in fiscal terms. it is true that it has not been a discretionary policy, but we think that the pact has been as important - in relative terms and given the importance of automatic stabilizers - in europe as certain discretionary measures may have been in the united states. we believe that the advantage of the system we propose is not only its automaticity but also the avoidance of problems in the future, especially when we have to deal with new recovery situations in which we start from relatively comfortable positions in terms of budget balance. some other issues have been raised this morning and tonight. mr garcia-margallo y marfil has made a reference tonight, in terms possibly close to him and me, to the positions of the dogmas and the ecclesiastical definitions of the guardian of dogma. of course, no one wants to be the guardian of any dogma, but it is clear that as the commission we have to play the role of guardian of the treaties, which means that we are obliged to implement the commitments as they have been put forward. and in that sense we consider it essential that the stability pact should continue to apply to all countries under the same conditions as it has been applied up to now. i shall make two further comments on the treaty this morning. the problem of enlargement, as some of you have said, is not the aim of the broad economic policy guidelines. there are specific documents dealing with this subject and we are working on a system which will enable us to gradually move closer to the broad guidelines so that, when enlargement comes, we can apply them. the second comment is addressed to mrs berès: i have noted with interest the references to the specific amendments and we will gladly pass them on to the council, which is now responsible for taking decisions on the broad economic policy guidelines, as they have already been left in the hands of the commission.
- the joint discussion is over. the vote on the trentin report will take place on thursday and the vote on the marinos report will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the following three reports are requested for joint debate: - a5-0129/2002, by mr schnellhardt, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the hygiene of foodstuffs (com (2000) 438 - c5-0376/2000 - 2000/0178 (cod)); - a5-0131/2002 by mr schnellhardt, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation laying down specific hygiene rules for food of animal origin (com (2000) 438 - c5-0377/2000 - 2000/0179 (cod)); - a5-0452/2001 by mr kindermann, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation laying down the animal health rules governing the production, placing on the market and import of products of animal origin intended for human consumption (com (2000) 438 - c5-0382/2000 - 2000/181 (cns)).
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy. – mr president, on behalf of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, i should like to congratulate both mr schnellhardt and mr kindermann for their work. the opinion from the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy on the schnellhardt report, for which i was the draftsperson, focuses in particular on the need for consistency between food safety practices, which are deemed essential for the domestic sale or supply of foodstuffs, and those practices which cover the sale of such foodstuffs internationally. the committee has therefore sought to make it explicit that the scope of any regulation needs to apply equally to exports, as well as to domestic sale and consumption. we also wanted to broaden the membership of the proposed standing committee for foodstuffs to include experts representing public authorities and consumer groups. it is quite wrong that the commission decision of 18 may 2000, which defines the composition of standing committees, specifically exempts consumer groups from representation on these committees. it is clearly of great importance that such committees gain the trust of consumers and are genuinely stakeholder committees. it therefore seems quite essential that consumer groups be represented on them. with respect to the specific hygiene rules for food of animal origin, the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy wanted to build in greater flexibility, particularly with regard to slaughterhouses. we therefore proposed that measures should be introduced to allow flexibility in application of the so-called haccp system to regional slaughterhouses which are in peripheral or remote regions. strict rules in the past have caused unnecessary difficulties to slaughterhouses in the more remote areas of the eu, often because geographical restraints can lead to unfair competitive conditions which tend to favour larger enterprises. yet, as we begin to learn the lessons of, say, the foot-and-mouth epidemic in the uk, it is quite clear that one of the reasons that disease spread so far and so fast was precisely because of the closure of local slaughterhouses. we must not induce, however unintentionally, any more closures in that vital area. finally, on a personal note, an existing concern i have with this whole regulation is that it is insufficiently flexible for the small enterprise in particular. we must be mindful of the extra burden which can be placed on small enterprises and ensure that we are not adopting any sort of regulation which risks undermining their livelihoods.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. – mr president, my task is the ordinarily rather boring one of reporting that the legal affairs committee considered this matter and found it not to be wanting. in fact, here we have a proposal under article 37 which is fully justified as a common agricultural policy issue, and, therefore, the procedures are appropriate. of course, it is important that we should check that there is an adequate legal base. we are now discussing in the convention and elsewhere, the question of holding the community organs to their proper competences and i am delighted that this regulation passes muster in that respect. it is also, as mr kindermann has said, a good thing to take this complex body of law and consolidate it into a single regulation that will give us a community of approach throughout the community. i am not sure if i would have felt that i was justified in taking up the time of the house, had that been all that there was to the matter, but i want to add to the point we are discussing today. the importation of animal products for human consumption is intimately connected, as mrs lucas has just said, with the disastrous outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease that we suffered in the united kingdom. in my own constituency, dumfries and galloway, we were as you know particularly afflicted in that case. if we were to move more and more strongly towards local production for local consumption, just as mrs lucas said a moment ago, we would avoid some of these dangers. it is vitally important that, in introducing these very necessary laws, we are careful to ensure that we do not create circumstances which themselves increase the pressure for excessive animal movement. i hope that will be taken into account. if i have strayed beyond the limits of the legal affairs committee, at least i have not strayed beyond my time.
mr president, i want to deal briefly with a number of amendments about which concern has been raised. amendment no 31 deals with products using traditional methods or sited in remote locations. all of us have some examples of this kind. i have seen this in the uk, with people trying to operate our beef assurance scheme. we should defend this amendment because it specifically states that such products should have no demonstrable adverse effect on food hygiene. similarly the references to haccp in amendment no 9 are permissive and not mandatory, and the small business sector can live with that. i now turn to the goodwill/bernier amendment no 18, as mr goodwill would expect me to, exempting hunters from these regulations. we accept this for the individual hunter consuming or passing on the game he has shot or caught. but there is a difference between the noble nordic hunter scaling the utmost peak in pursuit of an individual elk, the picture that mr sjöstedt would commend to us, and the syndicates of flabby businessmen turning out on english landed estates, as they turn in a large quota of inexpertly shot birds and animals for the market. in these circumstances, i believe that, if such products go to a retail outlet or a restaurant, there is a difference. the great wit, oscar wilde, described the english hunting fraternity as the 'unspeakable in pursuit of the uneatable'. i do not mind that but when the 'unspeakable' begin to peddle the 'eatable', they should be open to the hygiene rules, as set down in this regulation. i see no reason whatsoever why we should make an exemption where, what starts off as a little outlet doing no harm, a brace or two of birds here or there, ends up as another supply route. we should protect the hunter's right to hunt but we should not guarantee him an unprotected route into retail outlets.
mr president, though a flabby pinstriped businessman who enjoys shooting driven game, i want to concentrate on the aspect that we have 17 hygiene directives here being deregulated into one. this regulation goes way beyond the directives that it replaces. in particular, it extends article 3 of directive 93/43 which introduces what are know as the haccp principles. the hazard analysis and critical control points were developed in the 1960s for nasa to guarantee high purity food for astronauts. uncontrolled bodily functions in a space suit can be rather inconvenient! but haccp is a food safety management system devised for highly sophisticated food-processing operations. this space-age system is to be made compulsory throughout the eu. in the uk alone it is going to effect 300 000 businesses, costing an estimated gbp 2 billion a year for smes alone. something that has been developed for a sophisticated technology-based organisation is not appropriate for joe's cafe in lewisham high street or jean dupont's bistro in the rue de la révolution in marseilles. earlier this year, in the very shadow of this building, i toured the local food markets with a food safety expert. i found dozens of basic food hygiene failings. there, and everywhere else, the basic provisions of directive 93/43 have yet to be complied with. so why is the commission creating even more laws? these technocrats are totally out of touch with reality. they have gone into orbit and landed on another planet like the astronauts for which the haccp system was devised. for this reason alone the commission should not be putting forward more law. we do not need more complexity. if parliament endorses it, it proves that it too is living on another planet.
commission. – mr president, i am delighted to respond to the debate this evening and give my conclusions on the three reports concerning the food hygiene package. to get to where we are today has required a massive input from members of this house. first, may i offer my sincere thanks to all those members who have worked so tirelessly to drive this dossier forward – in particular mr schnellhardt and mr kindermann and the members of the environment and other committees, who have made such valuable contributions. nearly two years have passed since these proposals were adopted. slow progress, some might say. but this would ignore not only the importance of this dossier, but also the simultaneous work this house has undertaken on other related initiatives – in particular the proposal for a general food law and for establishing the european food safety authority, now enacted by regulation 178/2002. a vast number of amendments have been discussed in the committee on the environment and other committees. but it is not just the quantity of your work for which i am grateful – but also, and especially, the quality of the results, which, in my view, is excellent. the majority of the proposed amendments seek to improve the proposals from an editorial and technical point of view. there are also a large number of amendments, which align our proposals with the newly adopted regulation 178/2002. i welcome these amendments, which represent important and rational suggestions to improve our texts. if i may, i will start with the first of mr schnellhardt’s reports – on the horizontal measures covering the whole of the food sector. i must first mention the recurring question of comitology. i welcome the acceptance that the commission can adopt implementing measures under comitology procedures. however, i am disappointed that amendment no 30 seeks to remove the mandate to the commission to grant derogations from the annexes of the regulation. such a mandate already exits and i see no reason why this should not continue and, thus, cannot accept amendment no 30. perhaps members of the house will be aware of my views on comitology which is important as a form of secondary legislation to get measures through into law in a short space of time and parliament always has the "droit de regard" which it can exercise. if it did exercise it in any piece of legislation that i was responsible for, i would take full account of that. to that extent i am often disappointed at parliament's view in relation to the comitology procedure even though it may indeed need some amendment, reform and modernisation. the annexes to the regulation are technical and should therefore be adaptable using the comitology procedure. i therefore cannot accept amendments nos 28, 29, 58 and 59. the haccp (hazard analysis and critical control points) system has already provoked strong feelings. a number of amendments aim to implement this system at farm level. this is overly ambitious – and i must therefore reject amendment no 8, the first part of amendment no 9, and amendments nos 35, 37, 38 and 67. the second part of amendment nos 36 and 104 would require food businesses to keep documentation on the haccp system for an extensive period of time. this is not acceptable, as the measures we propose with regard to documentation for small businesses must be realistic. still on haccp, this system is the full responsibility of the food business operators. amendment no 108 is therefore not acceptable. flexibility in the context of food hygiene is an issue with which i am greatly concerned. throughout the european union, there are longstanding cultural traditions with regard to food and food preparation and i am keen to protect and encourage this and have sought to ensure this particular provision was included in this legislation. the commission’s proposal therefore contains a procedure to ensure sufficient flexibility to ensure that these traditions are preserved. i welcome the general acceptance of this. i will try to take into account, as far as possible, the suggestions in amendments nos 31 and 32, making editorial amendments where needed. our proposal provides for the establishment of guides of good practice – for use by food businesses to assist the achievement of the very highest level of food hygiene. i welcome the amendments that aim to clarify the procedures on how such guides should be established, and those that underscore that such guides should be voluntary instruments. but i must reject amendments nos 47 and 48, as these would impose unnecessary obligations on food businesses or on the commission. on the registration of food business, i am happy to take into account the suggestions for flexibility regarding the registration procedure. but on the linked question of traceability, i take the view that this is fully covered under regulation 178/2002. amendment no 53 must therefore be rejected. amendment no 13, on support to developing countries, i find most interesting. this is an important matter – and one that calls for profound reflection. while i must reject this amendment – please note that it is a matter to which i intend to return. i must also reject amendments nos 69, 71, 76, 77, 83, 89, 92, 93, 95, 101 and 105 because these may have a negative impact on small businesses. similarly, amendments nos 5 and 14, the second part of 16, 53, 55, and 107 since these are already adequately covered in other parts of community law, and amendment no 39 since this is already dealt with by amendment no 6. i am also keen on keeping a strict separation between the duties of food business operators and the competent authorities. amendment no 55 is not in line with that objective and must therefore be rejected. the other amendments are either wholly or partly acceptable, subject to editorial amendment. i would now like to turn to mr schnellhardt’s report on the proposal on the hygiene of food of animal origin. one issue that stands out above all others is that of game meat. it would appear that our proposal has ruffled a few feathers! i can assure this house that our objective in making the proposal was to design pragmatic rules and to preserve traditions in the member states, such as the delivery of small quantities of game meat by the hunter to the consumer or local retail trade. it was certainly not our intention to interfere with private consumption. i am grateful for the effort made to strike the right balance and i believe that you have broadly succeeded. in brief, i am ready to accept the following amendments on game: they are amendments nos 90, 92, 94 to 97, 129, 13 and the first part of 130. amendment no 91, however, overlaps with regulation 178/2002 and must therefore be rejected. i must also reject amendments nos 85 in part and 132 since they are not compatible with other amendments that i can accept. i must further reject the following amendments either because of a possible negative impact on small businesses or because of overlap with other parts of community law. they are amendments nos 17, 33, 35 first part, 38, 44, 45 first part, 55, 58, 65, 69, 91, 101, 116. i must also reject amendment no 8 because it mixes obligations to be respected by food business operators with those of the competent authorities; amendment no 10 in part because it widens too much the scope of the proposal with regard to special guarantees for salmonella in meat, as well as the last part of amendment no 13 since this would compromise the right of initiative of the commission. the other amendments are either wholly or partly acceptable, subject to editorial amendment. finally, i turn to mr kindermann’s report on the proposal dealing with animal health issues as a consequence of the consolidation of the rules on food hygiene. i am pleased to note that there is strong support for the proposal, with only a small number of amendments. there are, however, six amendments that i cannot accept: amendment no 4, in relation to bse, as there is already extensive legislation laid down to cater for this bse requirement and it is neither necessary nor good legal practice to repeat this. amendment no 5, on traceability, as this is already covered by article 3(2) (a) and is already included in animal health legislation. i could, accept the amendment if the term "human health" was replaced by “animal health” as foot and mouth disease is not a risk to humans. amendments nos 8 and 9 concern infringements and publication of results. this is a matter of subsidiarity and therefore should fall to each individual member state. in addition, there are no public health concerns, and it is not possible to draw up an exhaustive list of animal health infringements. to try to do so would inevitably lead to omissions. if necessary, this should be done in a horizontal fashion. however, i would encourage member states to aim for the level of transparency highlighted in these amendments in their national implementing provisions. i have major concerns with amendment no 12 on derogations for developing countries. if rules are stricter than those laid down by the oie, then these must be to ensure that the community animal health situation is not jeopardised. to allow more lenient rules for developing countries would clearly be self-defeating. i therefore cannot agree to amendment no 12. on amendment no 16, the early warning system was set up for specific public health concerns, not for the purpose foreseen by this amendment. in such cases, the commission would usually propose a draft decision to member states to suspend importation of the relevant animal products. additionally, member states' veterinary services would be warned immediately with detailed information from the commission of any risk consignments and therefore inclusion in the early warning system is unnecessary. apart from these six amendments, there are two amendments that i can only accept in part. first, on amendment no 7 in relation to unannounced inspection and penalties, i agree that there should be provision for unannounced official controls, but the proposed amendment appears to limit these controls to unannounced inspections only. alternative wording to allow for some to be unannounced would be sufficient. second, on amendment no 11 concerning assistance and notification of results, the first sentence repeats paragraph 1 of this article and should therefore be deleted. the other amendments are either wholly or partly acceptable subject to editorial amendment. let me now comment in detail on the amendments to these three reports. as far as the schnellhardt report on the hygiene of foodstuffs is concerned, the commission can wholly or partly accept the following amendments subject to editorial changes: nos 1 to 4, 6, 7, 9 to 12, 15 to 27, 31 to 34, 36, 40 to 46, 49 to 52, 54, 56, 57, 60 to 66, 68, 70, 72 to 75, 78 to 82, 84 to 88, 90, 91, 94, 96 to 100, 102, 103 and 106. the commission is unable to accept the following amendments: nos 5, 8, 13, 14, 28 to 30, 35, 37 to 39, 47, 48, 53, 55, 58, 59, 67, 69, 71, 76, 77, 83, 89, 92, 93, 95, 101, 104, 105, 107 and 108. as regards the schnellhardt report on specific hygiene rules for food of animal origin, the commission can wholly or partly accept the following amendments subject to editorial change: nos 1 to 7, 9 to 16, 18 to 32, 34 to 37, 39 to 43, 45 to 54, 56, 57, 59 to 64, 66 to 68, 70 to 90, 92 to 100, 102 to 115, 117 to 131, 133 and 134. the commission is, however, unable to accept the following amendments: nos 8, 17, 33, 38, 44, 55, 58, 65, 69, 91, 101, 116 and 132. as regards the kindermann report, the commission can wholly or partly accept the following amendments subject to editorial change: nos 1 to 3, 6, 7, 10, 11, 13 to 15 and 17. the commission is, however, unable to accept the following amendments: nos 4, 5, 8, 9, 12 and 16. i also hope that members will understand the reasoning behind the decisions to reject or amend some of the amendments put forward by the committees. finally, may i repeat my sincere thanks to all those who have participated in this herculean task. the food hygiene package marks another important step in our overhaul of food legislation in pursuit of our objective to ensure that european consumers have access to the safest possible food supply in the world.
- the joint discussion is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- doc. a5-0119/2002 by mrs paulsen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the monitoring of zoonoses and zoonotic agents, amending council decision 90/424/eec and repealing council directive 92/117/eec (com (2001) 452 - c5-0372/2001 - 2001/0176 (cod)); - a5-0120/2002 by mrs paulsen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the control of salmonella and other zoonotic agents in the food chain and amending council directives 64/432/eec, 72/462/eec and 90/539/eec (com (2001) 452 - c5-0373/2001 - 2001/0177 (cod)).
mr president, following the demise of edwina currie, the british health minister, who in 1988 said that most of the uk's egg production was infected with salmonella, it is a brave british politician who makes a speech on this subject. following that bombshell, egg consumption in the uk fell by 60% and the government embarked on what can only be described as knee-jerk reaction, when they slaughtered 2 million chickens. although some progress has been made in combating salmonella in the uk, there is still much work to be done. there are still 15,000 or 16,000 cases per year of salmonella food poisoning in the uk, half the previous levels. of course, this is not just a problem in europe. in the united states in 1994, there was a case connected with contaminated ice cream where nearly a quarter of a million people became ill. sweden, as mrs paulsen has said, has led the way but there they have looked at, for example, heat treatment of feed rather than just looking at the blunt tool of slaughter of flocks. of course, we hear stories now of swedes going to spain on holiday and falling like flies from salmonella food poisoning because they are not used to the constant exposure. it is certainly true that member states need to make progress to establish more effective national control programmes and at the same time, we need to ensure that imported products meet our own high standards. we must also concentrate on where the problem is, and that is poultry, and in particular eggs which are eaten raw. pork is less of a problem and, anyway, my grandmother would say that anyone eating raw pork deserves to be ill. infection in cattle and sheep is negligible so we can continue to eat our rare steak. on the issue of antibiotic resistance, there is resistance building up. however, we should not rush to ban prophylactic antibiotic use, as we could then see an explosion of disease prompting high levels of the resultant therapeutic use that could exacerbate the situation. lastly, on the issue of plant-based infection, maybe that has something to do with the increase in organic food consumption where i understand you are 30 times more likely to get e-coli infection.
mr president, i should like to congratulate mrs paulsen, my colleague on many food safety deliberations, for the work she has done on these complex regulations. it is absolutely crucial that having set out the broad principles of a european food law and a food safety authority to act as the overall scrutineer of such proposals, the details are dealt with effectively and accurately. the zoonoses regulations to which mrs paulsen has devoted so much time are in a way the building blocks of the provision of an effective and precautionary food law for the future. it may seem rather over-elaborate to talk of them as building blocks, but they are an appropriate way to move forward. some of us have reservations, perhaps, about the extension of these provisions, as they stand, to products of plant origin. an appropriate way to deal with them is through the hygiene regulations per se and not in these additional monitoring provisions. there only i dissent slightly from what mrs patrie has said. otherwise, i applaud her remarks also. i feel that, on the general detection and prevention of salmonella, the rapporteur is right to take us down this road as long as it can be implemented the length and breadth of the european union. it is as necessary for food producers as for the general public. without the restored confidence of the latter, there cannot be a secure future for the former. we want to have the increasing antibiotic resistance, which is being demonstrated at the moment in zoonotic organisms, accurately mapped. i do not agree with mr goodwill that there may be more harm than good in that. it is not a question of preventive medicine – it is of the other applications to which antibiotics are put, and wrongly, in my view.
commission. – mr president, i am delighted to respond to this debate on the two reports concerning zoonoses. this is an example of the implementation of the farm-to-fork approach highlighted in the white paper on food safety. our proposals are much more ambitious than the current directive. to ensure their successful implementation we need to allow sufficient time for member states to meet these objectives. this dossier has progressed quickly. first, may i offer my thanks to all those members who have driven this dossier forward – in particular mrs paulsen and the members of the committee on the environment, who have made such valuable contributions. public interest in food safety is immense, as we know. protection against zoonoses, disease transmission between animals and humans, is a growing concern not only in the european union, but throughout the world. the first proposal, on the monitoring of zoonotic agents, is the basis for improving knowledge of the sources and trends of these pathogens, supporting microbiological risk assessments, and adopting risk management measures. the european food safety authority will obviously play a key role in this exercise. the second proposal, on the control of salmonella, aims to reduce the public health burden caused by this agent. over 150 000 human cases of salmonella are reported every year in the european union. the regulation will apply to primary production – a major source of contamination. while some member states have seen a reduction in human cases following stringent control measures, the situation varies considerably. the commission therefore favoured a progressive approach to reducing salmonella occurrence. but the strategy is clear: to ensure high standards of food safety to european consumers, the prevalence of these pathogens must be reduced. the primary target is salmonella, an important pathogen for which we know efficient control measures can be taken, starting at primary production. other pathogens may be added in the future, if measures in animal populations can be shown to be efficient in reducing human cases. many amendments were discussed in the committee on the environment, and i am grateful for the quality of the result, which is excellent. the majority of the amendments are technical and improve the proposals. i welcome these amendments, which represent important and rational suggestions. mr president, instead of dwelling on all the amendments that i am happy to accept, i will instead concentrate on those that cause the commission some difficulty. i will start with the first of mrs paulsen’s reports, dealing with the directive on the monitoring of zoonotic agents. i can accept most of the amendments on this proposal. i will start with comitology. i welcome the acceptance of our proposal on the adoption of implementing measures. i can accept that, in addition to the committee on the food chain and animal health, the commission may be assisted, where appropriate, by the committee on the human communicable diseases network. this may, however, lead to some delays in adopting implementing decisions. i can also accept that certain basic criteria be transferred from the annexes to the articles. however, i do not accept that systematic prior consultation with the european food safety authority is required for any transitional measure or before amending the annexes. certain actions are administrative and do not require scientific expertise. i cannot therefore accept amendment no 22. shortening the deadline for member states to report on their monitoring activities from five months to three months is overly ambitious, considering the time needed to collect and compile data. experience with the current reporting system shows that five months is already optimistic. i therefore reject the relevant part of amendment no 20. systematic microbiological studies during investigation of food-borne outbreaks may not always be possible if the suspected food is no longer available. i cannot, therefore, accept amendment no 18. i can support amendments nos 28 to 33, which enlarge the scope of the monitoring of anti-microbial resistance, and supersede amendments nos 15 and 21. the other amendments are either wholly or partly acceptable, subject to editorial amendments. i come now to the regulation on the control of salmonella and other zoonotic agents. for the same reasons as on the proposed directive, i reject amendment no 10 that shortens the deadline for member states to report on the implementation of their control programmes. i also reject amendment no 27 that requires consultation of the european food safety authority systematically before taking transitional or implementing measures or amending the annexes. an overriding long-term objective to avoid completely the presence of zoonotic agents in the feed and food chain is unrealistic. all reasonable efforts must be made to reduce the risk from zoonotic agents to a very low level. i cannot, therefore, accept amendment no 7. amendments nos 1 and 16 would introduce food of plant origin into this control regulation, but this should be tackled under the food hygiene package, as mr whitehead said. i therefore reject amendment nos 1 and 16. i would note that as i can accept amendments nos 1, 6 and 12 on the proposed directive the monitoring of zoonoses in products of plant origin would be covered. amendments nos 2 and 22 provide for additional guarantees not only for salmonella, but possibly for other zoonotic agents. although additional guarantees may constitute an incentive for member states, extending them to zoonotic agents other than salmonella would create additional barriers to trade. moreover, additional guarantees for food should be tackled under the food hygiene package. i therefore reject amendments nos 2 and 22. i come now to amendment no 24, and the sanctions to be applied to member states. sanctions are a horizontal issue, not only for zoonoses. the commission is finalising a draft regulation on official feed and food controls, in which the issue of sanctions will be tackled. i therefore cannot accept amendment no 24 for that reason. an amendment to article 8 on the prohibition on the use of antibiotics for preventive or growth promotion purposes was rejected in the committee on the environment, but not the recital to the same effect. amendment no 37 would restrict the use of antibiotics to therapeutic purposes only. the commission has already announced the total phasing-out of anti-microbials used for growth promotion. the commission will ask for a scientific opinion on the risks and benefits of the use of antibiotics in medicines to control salmonella. for these reasons, and for consistency, i reject amendments nos 3 and 37. amendments nos 36 and 38 and the relevant parts of amendments nos 29 and 32, on the targets and measures for laying hens and slaughter pigs are acceptable, subject to review of the sampling for pigs and, possibly, setting a different timetable for breeding pigs and for slaughter pigs. we need a scientific opinion before setting additional targets for calves, other cattle and sheep. moreover, adding targets should be considered on the basis of the experience with the implementation of the new regulation. i therefore reject the relevant parts of amendments nos 29 and 32. on amendment no 35 on targets, it is evident that these are needed for those zoonotic serotypes with public health significance. however, this amendment goes much further, and it is not practicable. i therefore reject the relevant part of amendment no 35. amendment no 33 would require the eradication in poultry breeding flocks of all salmonella serotypes with public health significance, instead of just two serotypes. given the difficult experience with the current zoonoses directive, this objective is overly ambitious. it would also contradict the principle of flexibility for member states to set the necessary control measures. i cannot, therefore, accept amendment no 33. shortening the deadline for laboratories to apply international standards for quality assurance schemes seems unrealistic, considering the time needed to prepare and reach accreditation. i therefore reject that part of amendment no 26. amendment no 25 requires the european food safety authority and the food and veterinary office to be closely involved in monitoring that equivalent control programmes exist in third countries. control programmes are essentially a management issue and do not fall within the remit of the efsa. i therefore reject that part of amendment no 25. the other amendments are either wholly or partly acceptable, subject to editorial amendments. i hope that parliament understands the reasoning behind the decisions to reject or accept in part some of the amendments put forward. a full listing of the commission’s position on each of the amendments is being provided to parliament. i trust that this will be included in the minutes of this session. finally, may i repeat my sincere thanks to all those who have participated in this huge effort. along with the food hygiene package, the zoonoses proposals mark another important step in our review of food legislation, in pursuit of our objective to ensure that european consumers have access to the safest possible food supply in the world.
- the joint discussion is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0121/2002) by mr alexander de roo, on behalf of the european parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a european parliament and council directive on the assessment and management of ambient noise (pe-cons 3611/2002 - c5-0098/2002 - 2000/0194 (cod)).
commission. – mr president, i am very pleased that the environmental noise directive, which the commission proposed in july 2000, is now entering the final stage of its adoption. noise is an important environmental problem which we know concerns millions of eu citizens. thus the commission is glad that this new legislation will soon enter into force and allow better protection of people exposed to environmental noise in europe. there is already a set of existing eu legislation relating to noise sources such as motor vehicles, aircraft, equipment used outdoors and so on. i should like to express my gratitude to the rapporteur, mr de roo, as well as to all the members of the parliamentary delegation and the conciliation committee. i appreciate the commitment that mr de roo has shown to this issue. in particular, the commission takes due note of the strong interest expressed by your institution for legislation relating to sources of noise. however, while the commission welcomes the agreement on a joint text, which was reached on 8 april 2002 by the conciliation committee, we have serious concerns with regard to the provisions of modified article 1 of this directive. for this reason the commission has decided to make the following declaration: the commission takes note of the text agreed for article 1 of the environmental noise directive by the members of the conciliation committee for the european parliament and the council. the commission considers that legislative proposals to reduce noise emissions from all major sources should be made on the basis of robust evidence supporting such proposals. this is in line with the knowledge-based approach for policy making as proposed in the sixth environmental action programme and approved by the european parliament and the council. in this regard the reports required for member states under the directive, on the basis of harmonised noise indicators, will be an essential element. the provision of such data across the community will allow the impact and benefits of possible measures to be properly assessed prior to presenting community legislative proposals. therefore, and in accordance with the treaty establishing the european community, the commission will evaluate the need to come forward with new legislative proposals, reserving its right to decide as and when it would be appropriate to present any such proposals. this is consistent with the commission's right of initiative as laid out in the treaty, while the requirements of article 1(2) relating to the submission of new proposals within a fixed timeframe appear to be prejudicial to this right. that is the statement the commission wishes to make.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. (the sitting was closed at 11.20 p.m.) the next item is the report (doc.
mr president, on a point of order, i should like to raise a matter of vital importance to the european union, which is also an urgency. as many of you know, i am a member of the european parliament's temporary committee on foot-and-mouth disease. this disease wreaked devastation across the whole of the uk and other member states of the eu and cost european taxpayers billions of euros. you will also be aware of the recent outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in korea. the world cup about to take place in korea will result in a massive increase in travellers from the eu to that country, and there is a potential risk of a further outbreak of foot-and-mouth from travellers bringing back infected foodstuffs. when it is considered that over ten million animals were slaughtered in my country alone due to foot and mouth, which may have been caused by one single infected sandwich being brought into the uk, i hope you will understand the urgency of the situation. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, one of my ancestors was the captain of a ship sailing between scotland and valparaiso, chile. sadly, he drowned on one of those hazardous journeys. so trade with latin america is long established between my country and this great continent. it therefore gave me great pleasure to attend the eu-latin american parliamentary conference in the same city last april. i am hopeful that chile will shortly become the most recent signatory to a wide-ranging cooperation agreement with the eu, as mexico – whose president fox is visiting us here in this house today – did following the first summit meeting in rio in 1999. recently, latin america has been very much in the news. we have had president carter's reconciliation visit this week to cuba, the sole remaining communist dictatorship; the farcical short-lived coup in venezuela against the maverick president chávez; the sad economic meltdown that we now see in once prosperous argentina; as well as the ongoing tragedy of colombia, racked by guerrilla war, political assassinations and illegal drug trafficking. nevertheless, in spite of these problems, i retain a degree of optimism that latin american countries will eventually realise that to reach western-style prosperity and security they will have to put aside their petty divisions – which are small compared to the linguistic and cultural differences that we face here in the eu – and unite in developing strong and stable functioning market economies, based on the rule of law, good governance, democracy and human rights. initially the eu will have to negotiate bilateral treaties, but i am convinced that in the longer run a latin american free-trade area drawing on the lessons of the mercosur and andean pact countries' experience will emerge over the next decade. this will itself be subsumed eventually into the free trade area of the americas, as agreed by the usa and the latin american heads of state and government in quebec last year. it also established for the first time embryonic clauses on human rights and democracy to which all the states signed up except, shamefully, venezuela. i therefore welcome the second summit of the heads of state and government of latin america, the caribbean and the eu in madrid on 17 may. i wish it well in its challenging project of bringing about much closer cooperation between these two great regions of the world.
rapporteur. – mr president, i rise to introduce my report on transatlantic relations. it is a timely debate with the rapidly changing transatlantic relationship today. as many will know, i have always been a strong supporter of closer transatlantic relations. it is logical, in an area of globalisation, for europe and america to think of a strengthened transatlantic partnership based on shared values and common interests. but logic is not necessarily sufficient. there are real grounds for concern, the traditional transatlantic ties are now weakening, without new bridges being built; increasing numbers feel that nato may not exist in five years' time; and certainly the nato-russia council, as we see published today, is fundamentally changing our whole security relationship. i would like to examine why this is happening, what the concerns are and what we should do about it. nato inevitably is changing, no longer is it a defensive organisation against a country which no longer exists. it is becoming more political, more international. after 11 september quite clearly one partner, america, feels that it is a nation under attack. we in europe do not have that feeling. it gives a much clearer focus on what should be done in military matters. finally, america perhaps is a country which is certainly not used to, and may not wish to, share sovereignty and multinational institutions, as we have become more used to in europe. it therefore sees things in a very different light when participating in international institutions, even if it is aware that for market access global rules of governance are needed. what then are the concerns? my report is very clear on this. a number of different concerns have been raised by colleagues, of a political nature: the lack of us participation in the kyoto protocol, the biodiversity convention, the ottawa convention on land mines and, recently, the refusal to sign the treaty establishing the international criminal court. secondly, economic concerns. we have seen two recent instances of american action on steel and now american action to increase agricultural subsidies. in many ways, these show that they are living in a world of their own, detached from reality outside. finally on foreign policy, where the us seems to wish to continue its ideas for action against iraq, this is seen by many as not perhaps the best way to deal with that problem. what then should we do? the report i am submitting to the house, together with my colleague, mrs mann, shows that we have many good ideas, but we have perhaps not paid sufficient attention to what we should be doing. the key element of the report is that we need to continue to update nato, update the new transatlantic agenda to develop a sustained and strengthened transatlantic partnership based on a new confidence pact and concept of mutual recognition in which our respective roles can be clearly defined. there are a lot of examples, but i will give a few here to the house. nato remains not only the fundamental guarantee of euro-atlantic stability and security, it is the essential framework for coalition operations. nato needs to respond to new global challenges, realising the form of political and military structures is shifting from collective defence to collective security. it is essential for adequate defence budgets to be combined with courageous steps towards coordination and greater rationalisation of defence procurement. modernisation instead of marginalisation of partnership requires the us to open its defence markets and us, in europe, to coordinate where possible. we need to develop a common and comprehensive definition and concept of security and risks to security. we also need to understand that nato and the eu need to work closer together, by bringing together the non-military tools at the eu's disposal, combined with the decisive military capabilities available to nato. we need a reinforced political dialogue. my colleague mrs mann will deal with the economic aspects, on which there are several excellent proposals. we need to engage the us in constructive multilateral dialogue and to strengthen parliamentary involvement in this whole dialogue. what does this mean? we have made one or two small steps at the eu-us summit on this positive agenda, but there is one major element missing and that is the strategic view of the long-term destination of this transatlantic partnership on which we have no real ideas. we in this house have always supported a longer-term, deeper transatlantic partnership, that is why we are calling on the commission to produce a report. its own communication is lacking in strategic thinking, and we need to make great progress on that issue.
mr president, since 11 september, we have all said that europe and the usa must stand shoulder to shoulder because we share common values. we must support our ally in its time of need in the same way as america came to europe's aid twice in the darkest hours of the last century. yet, this support need not be uncritical. true friends and allies must talk to each other and, more importantly, listen to each other. sadly, as the commissioner has said, there have been too many examples recently of poor communication and the turning of deaf ears in transatlantic relations. as the commissioner demonstrated admirably to mr elles, candour is sometimes an obligation of friendship. we must say candidly that on some issues europe believes the us has got it wrong. claims that the international criminal court would have untrammelled power to prosecute members of the us military are simply not true. to disown the body will not prevent it from going ahead, the us will simply lose all influence over the way the rules develop. american arguments at the un summit on children against safeguards – because they would prevent judicial execution of minors in texas – offend the european concept of justice, just as us treatment of taliban prisoners in the shibarghan camp in northern afghanistan seems to us to violate the geneva convention. staying out of the kyoto agreement on climate change means that the us is free-riding on the efforts of others to tackle global warming. how can we expect the developing world to make its industries environmentally sustainable when the world's leading economy passes the buck so shamelessly? on steel tariffs also, us policy is misguided. rather than re-structure its steel industry, the us risks losing the moral high ground in the global campaign for free trade. however, the breakdown in communication across the atlantic is due not only to errors of judgment on the us side. it does not help that the european union is at sixes and sevens. mr prodi and mr aznar looked distinctly uncomfortable with each other at the summit. the failure of member states to back the commission in its response to the steel tariffs dispute undermines the credibility of the union and weakens our negotiating hand. the union's failure to speak with one voice, from iraq to india, makes it mighty difficult for the us to know where we stand. for the union to have a credible foreign policy we need a common security policy. it is no use establishing a 60 000 strong rapid reaction force if we cannot get it up and running in practice or reach agreement on a common arms procurement policy. in other areas too, from policing on the ground to a single european sky, we will not be taken seriously by the americans until we get our own act together. finally, the union could take a leaf out of the us book in its policy towards china over taiwan. it is disgraceful that taiwan, a fully-fledged democracy since 1987, is made a pariah by eu governments which claim to represent democratic values. it is high time that member states stood together behind the eu flag to open normal relations with taiwan and take a stand at the un human rights committee in geneva against the prc's human rights abuses. in conclusion, the european union would be better placed to engage in a real dialogue of equals with the us, if we displayed more unity and demonstrated more backbone. liberal democrats look to the convention on the future of europe to deliver a federal european union with a real common foreign and security policy, so that europe can use active diplomacy to strive for a new approach to global development and convince our american friends to follow.
mr president, i wish to begin by taking this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur on this report. this debate has certainly stimulated interest in what the commissioner described as one of the most important relationships that exists: the relationship between the european union and the united states. the rapporteur was right to state that there was no long-term view. at this moment in time we must appreciate how difficult it is for americans to achieve that long-term view because of the events in the united states on 11 september, which, to some extent, meant they turned their attention to other issues, such as their "homeland" security. at times we europeans do not understand the effects that 11 september had on the people of the united states. that does not mean that we cannot move forward in cooperation, indeed, we must cooperate and pursue our dialogue. of course, there are many issues that we will always disagree on. however, we must pursue our dialogue to try to resolve those issues. no doubt there will be other issues, such as the situation this week with the new farm bill, which will cause tremendous problems for the european union in the longer term. the steel issue will be resolved eventually. thus we have to continue the dialogue and face the challenge. we must not allow the issues as they come forward to distract us in any way from this vital relationship between the european union and the united states. there is a challenge here for us. parliament has a modest role to play. i am pleased that the commissioner recognised that. we have to take up that challenge and work together with the commission and the council to ensure that we have a long-term view.
the council. - mr president, i shall be very brief because i am well aware of the time problem and also, above all, because i think that this debate has not been controversial. i think it was a great exercise in examining the great theme of transatlantic relations, because these relations, precisely because of their intensity, because they are almost like family relations, sometimes present a very great complexity, because we are very demanding of ourselves and also of our partners. we think that the united states should behave towards us by adopting the same degree of demands that we impose on ourselves. we're not going to solve this problem: we have different deficiencies. we have spoken about the tendency of the americans to unilateralism and to not want to make commitments in international mechanisms. on the other hand, we have also said that we are aware of our shortcomings, that we do not invest enough, that we do not measure up, that we often do not even agree on the implementation of certain policies. it has been said here that it was clear that mr prodi and mr aznar were not in agreement at the time of their interview with mr bush. i think that is an exaggerated version because, frankly, there has always been a very strong synergy between the commission and the presidency: this presidency and, surely, those to come. and i must say that i could not express the union's feeling about relations with the united states better than commissioner patten has done in this house. but clearly that's our weakness. we often have the problem of the lack of common policies and the fact that there are still profound differences in foreign policy, because the sovereign states within the union still have their options. this means that there is a lack of a high degree of harmonization of positions on major international issues. but what is really there is a great deal of identity between the council and the commission as to what the strategic vision - which we do have - of our future relations with the united states should be. there is also a will to maintain these relations at a privileged level and, therefore, with that will, our task is to manage the day-to-day of some frustrations, but also the day-to-day of that extraordinarily vital, fruitful and cordial relationship which is the transatlantic relationship.
rapporteur. – mr president, i should like to thank the council for the detailed summit conclusions it gave us, as well as the appreciation that there was a real need to have a look at a long-term strategic view of the transatlantic relationship, taking into account security and political and economic aspects. this was at the heart of the report adopted by the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy by 40 votes to 5. i would remind the commissioner not to personalise debates in the way he did – although there was an element of humour about this – because i represent the views of the committee and the amendment he referred to was adopted unanimously by my group. we hope that in time the commission will fall into line with most of this house and the council in understanding that there is a need for a longer-term review. that is what we have requested, and we expect a strategic report to be presented by 30 september 2003. i hope the commissioner can produce that for us.
- we now move to the votes. recommendation for second reading drawn up on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, in the form of a letter, on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (eec) no 95/93 of 18 january 1993 laying down common rules for the allocation of slots at community airports (6661/1/2002 - c5-0149/2002 - 2002/0013 (cod)) amendment 1
the commission is aware of the difficulties facing the european union in the field of research and development, and it is aware of the difficulties facing the community in the field of research and development. i would like to emphasize once again the very good interinstitutional cooperation which was the basis of the legislative procedure and which led to an important agreement. i confirm that the commission can accept the 34 compromise amendments adopted by the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy on 13 may and tabled in plenary today. i would like to thank once again the rapporteur, mr caudron, the non-attached rapporteurs, mr van velzen, mrs plooij-van gorsel, mr piétrasanta and mr alyssandrakis, and the chairman of the itre committee, mr westendorp.
the council has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels. this is possible thanks to the work done with the council, the rapporteurs of the itre commission and also with the commission and the council. we have reached an agreement because the concerns expressed by parliament coincide with those of the council. i think it will be important to send this signal to the whole scientific and technological community in europe that parliament supports this initiative of the sixth framework programme which is to develop the european research area. i would like to end by thanking the president of the commission and the rapporteurs who have worked very closely with the council.
- i now have the pleasure of welcoming to the official gallery a delegation of 20 deputies and senators from mexico. the delegation was led by mrs beatriz paredes rangel, president of the chamber of deputies. (applause from the left) as you will have heard, parliament welcomes them warmly and hopes that their meetings in the context of eu-latin america relations will be fruitful.
- we will now proceed to the votes. report (a5-0131/2002) by mr schnellhardt, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the hygiene of foodstuffs (com (2000) 438 - c5-0377/2000 - 2000/0179 (cod)) (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
- it was considered incompatible, as contrary to the spirit of amendment no 40 if it were adopted, to vote on amendments nos 1 and 2 relating to paragraphs 16 and 17 afterwards. i am very much prepared to hear the rapporteur's opinion on this.
rapporteur. – mr president, it becomes clear that the socialists are shifting ground as we go through this debate. the original text of paragraph 16 states that it is inevitable that "a significant increase of defence expenditures to fill the current capability gap" will be needed. i agreed in discussions with the socialist group to alter that to "an increase" on the assumption that our amendment no 40 would be the basis for our compromise. we then went further, and i agreed to put an oral amendment stating it should be "adequate defence expenditure". as the socialist group has withdrawn its approval of amendment no 40 at it stands, i suggest we revert to the original wording of paragraph 16 – "significant increase" – and vote on that text first.
- here again, a clever way of matching an intervention to the point on the agenda. - report by mr caudron (a5-0153/2002) on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (2002) 0143 - c5-0153/2002)
in writing. - i welcome this report as a major step forward in our project to make the eu the most dynamic and competitive economy in the world by 2010. if it did not adopt this programme, europe could never hope to become a world player in research and development, where we are seriously lagging behind the united states. the 6th framework programme will also respect the ethical principles currently in place across europe. research activities in the field of reproductive human cloning will be prohibited. i believe that the european institutions can be pleased to have reached a reasonable and effective agreement on this issue. the universal benefits of the sixth framework programme must be fully enjoyed by our citizens: all of society, from young researchers to disabled or elderly people, should benefit from its content. if european cooperation were to be advocated, the best argument would lie in the research programme. i am glad to see that european researchers in european regions will be financially rewarded for their intelligence. all things considered, it will make us more competitive and help us fight serious diseases and environmental problems.
- it's not so much me who's got water in my mouth. the secretariat is anxious to have lunch.
in writing. - i welcome this report which calls for a consolidation of the current european rules on food hygiene and veterinary inspections. food hygiene affects the daily lives of european citizens and is of interest to many. it is therefore important that any legislative act on this issue should be as clear and accessible as possible. the proposal to register all food businesses is also a good one. at present, this system does not exist and it is time that food producers are the only ones responsible for the safety of their products. if this is the solution, then when food safety problems arise, consumers will have to follow fewer bureaucratic procedures and will have a better idea of who is to blame. finally, the proposal to subject all meat to the new rules is also timely. there is no reason to treat other meats differently than we do at present. if european citizens have food safety concerns and find out that meat is exempt, this whole series of measures could prove to be meaningless.
mr president, i supported the resolution on kaliningrad by mrs hoff. we have to follow the example given by mr patten in his remarks yesterday and make a clear resolution in favour of cooperation with russia and on the question of kaliningrad to fit in with the wishes of the people of that small territory. mr putin is a friend of ours, and we should encourage him. he has brought economic growth to russia at a time of very great danger in the economic system of that country. he has sorted out the taxation system, which makes the very valid point that reducing rates of tax very often results in an increase in revenue. chechnya is his black mark – we must be critical of the russian government here. mr putin is sensitive to criticism, and a word of caution should go out from this european parliament and be carefully noted by colleagues, even if they are not present in this chamber at the moment.
mr president, when we look at relations with the united states, we have to ask ourselves whether or not the united states is prepared to adhere to multilateral agreements. we have seen what has happened in relation to kyoto; we saw the attempt to sabotage the un conference on the proliferation of small arms and we now see the farm bill, which threatens to exceed the limits set out in the wto in terms of subsidies for farmers. what is worrying about this is that in the doha agreement both the eu and the united states promised the smaller countries that they would have access to our textile and agricultural markets. now the us seems to be going back on that, just as it has done with textiles in relation to the caribbean countries. the real danger is not only the message the farm bill sends out to the poorer countries, but that it will also encourage those members of the eu who are opposed to our own farm reform. we have made enormous progress in cap reform, but a lot more is needed. i would hope that the actions by the united states in pursuit of "pork barrel" politics, because of the elections in november, are not going to encourage those members of the eu who are opposed to further reform.
- explanations of vote are closed. (the sitting was suspended at 1.19 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
mr president, i thank mr solana for his extremely interesting statement. but reading between the lines, as one should, it is fairly clear that not much progress is being made to reform the council. perhaps it is quite unrealistic to think that there could be progress before the problems are dramatised with the presence of 25 or so ministers at the table. but, frankly, i find it extraordinary that mr solana and mr blair and several others can float the idea of creating an executive committee formed out of the council presidency without referring to the role of the european commission. it would be best to be blunt here. the imposition of a board of directors of the council would steal the commission's right of initiative and destroy its critical role in identifying and expressing the common interests of all the member states. it is only the commission that can ensure the equality of all the states. as to the question of the presidency, no debate could be complete without considering whether it would be the proper thing, in the end, to let the commission chair the ordinary meetings of the council, while letting mr solana chair the foreign affairs council, preserving the routine six-month circus for the european council itself. that might be the most appropriate approach to ensuring tight coordination and continuity within the council. finally, we should refer to the byzantine tangle of comitology. the efficiency of the union will be greatly improved as soon as the commission is granted sufficient executive authority to act without the constant interference of the council. so reform has much further to travel before the convention will be satisfied that we have grappled satisfactorily with all the important questions.
mr president, all the institutions face a major challenge with enlargement bringing in more members to each institution, but none more so than the council. the commission and parliament are better placed to deal with these difficulties, but meetings of ministers flying in for a short time to brussels, when it takes half a morning just to have a tour de table – really provide the council with a challenge. much of that will require treaty amendments. that is a matter for the convention. in the immediate future, in seville, the council will be facing changes that can be made within the framework of the existing treaties. i too welcome the identification in mr solana's report and elsewhere of the changes that could be made. it is right that we should try and get the european council to focus on strategy and on the key strategic issues and no longer be a court of appeal when the ordinary council is deadlocked. that is of fundamental importance. in addition, where subjects which, in the ordinary council, would be taken by a qualified majority, go to the european council, they should similarly be dealt with by a qualified majority in the european council. that is also well and good. it would also be a good idea to split the general affairs council from the foreign affairs council. some member states will want to send the same minister to each for various internal reasons. others will not. that is up to each member state, but the functions should be separated so that they are both done well instead of badly. other changes can be made without amending the treaties. meeting in public when the council acts in its legislative capacity is one of them. yes, we have made progress in terms of access to documents and publishing the results of votes in the council. that was an important step forward, but we must go that step further and actually meet in public. finally, members of the council should establish a better rapport with members of their national parliaments. the protocol set a six-week period for them to do this for any item of legislation. they should do this properly. that is the way to involve national parliaments, not by creating some new institution which would duplicate the council, some sort of third chamber. get the ministers to do their jobs properly and it will be done well without needing new structures.
i must say at the outset that i yield to no one in my condemnation of terrorism and terrorist acts, and this issue affects not just spain but all countries in the european union. mr aznar spoke recently about the need for dialogue between the palestinians and the israeli government in the middle east peace process. could the president-in-office – in either his capacity as representative of the presidency or as representative of the spanish government – give an example of any previous situation in world history where a policy of non-dialogue with people who are carrying out terrorist attacks in a country such as spain has ever resolved the situation. there are many people in this parliament and in europe who believe that at some stage it will be essential for spain – however regrettable, however much it dislikes the idea – to enter into a dialogue. if that is not the case, could he give me an example of some situation where non-dialogue has worked?
mr president, i still have three concrete questions which puzzle me concerning this troublesome issue of the recruitment agency of the eu. first: what was the point of solemnly proclaiming the charter of fundamental rights, should the council be unwilling to implement it? second: what sort of message does he think this sends to the citizen of the existing union and also of the applicant countries? third: when does he expect the matter to be finally and satisfactorily resolved?
mr howitt. - i would like to draw the attention of the honourable member to the relevant paragraph of the conclusions of the barcelona european council - point 13 - in which no specific mention is made of the abolition of conditions for development aid. the european council welcomed the agreement reached by the foreign ministers on official development aid (oda) with a view to the monterrey conference, which it endorsed. in this agreement, the council of the european union affirms its readiness, inter alia, to implement the recommendation to abolish the conditions for aid to the least developed countries and to continue discussions with a view to further abolishing the conditions for bilateral aid. the european union will also consider measures to further remove the conditions for community aid while maintaining the existing system of price preferences under the eu-acp agreement.
i think the president-in-office neatly side-stepped my question. of course, paragraph 13 records what was agreed, not what was not agreed. so i repeat my question to him: was it discussed? what were the arguments? what was the balance of opinion on that occasion? surely he can share that with us this evening. what is more, will he take back to the further discussions in the council the advantages of untying aid? according to the world bank, this increases aid effectiveness by between 12 and 20 per cent. surely, he would agree that development is about helping developing countries to help themselves. and if we rely on european consultants, european companies, european technical assistance, are we not just reinforcing the dependence which development is trying to replace? does he finally agree that untying aid increases the role of the private sector within developing countries? it increases local skills and knowledge. it brings about local ownership development projects. if he does agree, will he do something about it?
- the next item is the report (a5-0133/2002) by mr lamassoure, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the delimitation of competences between the european union and the member states (2001/2024 (ini)).
mr president, i congratulate mr lamassoure on his work these last few months and on the remarkable result he has produced. it means that the european parliament will be there at the convention with a set of proposals on the table. we will have done our work in terms of contributing ideas and proposals to the convention and that in itself is very important. it is important especially if we look at the climate surrounding some of these discussions and debates. there are those who are alleging that the european union has become an over-centralised monstrosity; that we need to take powers back to the member states; that we should define a catalogue of competences specifying in great detail what the eu is allowed and not allowed to do. this report refutes those arguments. it demonstrates quite clearly, in a very good response, that the competences of the european union are not over-done: they are, in fact, finely tuned according to the subject. there are some areas where the union has what could be called an exclusive competence – though that term has been avoided in the resolution. they are quite limited but important. the bulk of the union's responsibilities are what could be called shared competences, where the intensity of union action varies greatly from one subject to another. in some areas we lay down detailed legislation – which the member states have to comply with. in other areas the union has a coordinating role and in still other areas it contributes with complementary actions. this is flexible and it is adapted to the needs of different policy areas, and should remain so. the true guarantee against over-centralisation is, and should be, a political guarantee as we consider proposals in the normal procedures of the institutions: from the commission, as mr méndez de vigo has just said, when it makes its proposals to us as a parliament, and also the council. let us remind ourselves who sits on the council: national ministers, members of national governments, accountable to national parliaments – not people who are predisposed towards centralising everything in the european union. not at all. you have to convince a very large majority of them to get a qualified majority. these are the political guarantees, the procedural guarantees against over-centralisation, and the ministers in the council can, and should, involve their national parliaments as well. the treaty of amsterdam gave a protocol giving a six-week period for ministers to discuss with their national parliaments. that is how national parliaments should be involved, not through some new chamber of subsidiarity or some new institution. all this is well presented in the report. where we in the socialist group have a reservation is on the legal control of subsidiarity. it exists already: the court is a constitutional court in many ways. we do not, however, think a new extra procedure – an emergency procedure – is needed, and the wording should be tightened up to show that on shared competences detailed legislation can sometimes be laid down and ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the liberal group strongly welcomes the report for not simply revisiting existing powers to improve clarity but for boldly seeking to adjust competences to face the challenges that the union knows, especially in the foreign and security field. the report will serve as the first contribution to the convention on the question of competences. i trust that the convention will follow the wise approach in rejecting the rigid and misleading concept of exclusive competences and in focusing instead on developing a more sophisticated system of power sharing. my group supports the idea of creating a new judicial procedure of constitutional complaint for breaches of competency, which implies the rapid evolution of the european court. the procedure would be rarely deployed, but it represents a significant insurance scheme to see that the union authorities do not abuse their reinforced powers. a further area deserving of greater focus concerns the regions, which can be, and should be, useful intermediaries between the citizen on the one hand and the supranational authorities on the other. we are proposing amendments which will strengthen the report in this respect.
mr president, like others i take it to be a great privilege to participate in this debate – late in the day, though it is. my own group has two particular points that we would like to ask colleagues to build into the report before it finally sees the light of day. firstly, just an allusion to the significance of the democratic deficit and the need, finally, fully to democratise the institutions of the union. as long as we do not call it a "permanent" democratic deficit, i am sure that the ppe-de group will be with us on that, and i hope that will be written in. further, we suggest – and colleagues on the left are very much in agreement with this – that a little more emphasis on the social, as well as the economic and political element – should be written in. apart from that, we are really very happy with the way this is going forward and look forward to voting for it tomorrow. the key point mr lamassoure makes – and has made throughout – is that the issue is not one of needing to rewrite a new list of competences for the institutions but a need to draw to citizens' attention to the fact that there is already a very adequate statement of the different kinds of competences – the union's own competences and the shared ones – and the fact that the principle of residuarity governs the rest. the states are responsible for what is not given to the union. all that is clear in principle, but it could do with being stated more clearly in practice so that citizens are better aware of it. that is a very important point. in that context, we raise the issue of subsidiarity. where competences are shared, it is important indeed that in all those areas where local knowledge ought to prevail, local knowledge does prevail. that is to say, that decisions are taken at the most appropriate level for them. recital g makes a very important contribution to expanding and giving greater bite to the idea of subsidiarity, and that is also to be very greatly welcomed. we in our group believe much in extended subsidiarity. subsidiarity does not stop at the front door of the member states: it goes right down to the territorial entities within the member states, to the local authorities within the member states, and that is of critical importance to us all. we, along with the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism and the liberals, would like a little more strength to it, but we do not mind. this report as it stands now represents a huge step forward in the thinking of europeans and of this parliament. i repeat, it is a huge privilege to take part in this debate and in particular – and i say it in his presence – it is a privilege to have taken part in a debate led by mr lamassoure, who has done such an extraordinary job of setting up the architecture but being willing to adjust the sculpture, to borrow a metaphor of his own this morning. he has done a fantastic job, we are all greatly in his debt, and i hope my group will vote unanimously with him tomorrow. (applause)
- i'm sure those of us who aren't participating will be very happy to hear it.
mr napolitano, i can assure you that the comments you made at the beginning of your speech will be forwarded to the conference of committee chairmen, the conference of presidents and parliament's services. as the president of this sitting, i think it is much more interesting to listen to a debate of this quality than most other debates in this parliament.
mr president, i wish to begin by explaining to the house that the british conservative delegation is going to abstain on mr lamassoure's report, which, while it contains some excellent parts, also contains some parts which we cannot accept. i must emphasise that i am saying this not to gainsay the quality of the rapporteur's work or to underestimate the effort he has put in. for the british, having no formal written constitution and having been a unitary country until quite recently, systematic analysis of the kind we are considering this evening is especially unfamiliar. having said that, as part of the essential process of making europe's political activities more clear, understandable, democratic and accountable and making europe suitable for an enlarged union, it is necessary that this work is done and done rigorously. the very fact that we find that we cannot support some of its conclusions does not seem to me to invalidate the underlying exercise. europe's constitutional arrangements need improving, clarifying and tidying up. but that process must not be allowed to be the excuse for creeping euro-centralisation. rather, it must be used to develop a europe built around its nation-states, taking decisions together, according to evolving systems of decision-making, which make them suitable and appropriate to a 21st-century world.
mr president, sometimes i feel that this house is so preoccupied with its own debates that it has lost sight of what is going on beyond its walls. across europe voters feel taken for granted by their politicians; they feel that how they vote makes little difference and that they have next to no control over their own futures. yet, our response is to offer them more of the same. this report confirms and entrenches the progressive transfer of powers from national parliaments to the european union institutions. it sets out the areas where the union should have full or partial control but it offers no commensurate list of matters to be reserved for the nation-states. it offers a mechanism for the extension of eu jurisdiction into new areas, but no equivalent mechanism for the repatriation of powers. while i fully respect the sincerity of those who support the report, it seems to me that their case is based on two questionable assumptions. first, there is an implicit premise that the very fact of there being an international dimension to some policy area of itself justifies a common european approach. this reasoning may be superficially plausible but i find it specious. after all, the absence of a supranational policy does not mean that the member states are unable to cooperate one with another. it may well be that multilateral collaboration can produce better results than enforced uniformity. second, there is a reluctance to recognise any matter as being exclusively national. but again, the fact that a nation has complete jurisdiction in a given field, does not preclude its working with its neighbours. the nation-states must be allowed to define certain areas of policy as being essentially domestic in that they have no direct impact on the internal affairs of other member states. further, they should have the right to guarantee this judicial supremacy in their constitutions. just as the european treaties define the competences of the union, so the national constitutions should be able to ring-fence certain matters of wholly national concern. i do not have time now to elaborate a full list of these areas, although i have done so in a paper published by the sos democracy intergroup. the transfer of powers must be allowed to happen both ways: it is dogmatic and wrong to assume that action at brussels level is inherently preferable to national action. it is this attitude that is widening the rift between those of us in this house and our constituents beyond it.
commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall try to use the few minutes of pause in this very late debate, which coincide, as i said to mr méndez de vigo, with the last two minutes of pause in the famous match he mentioned. according to my information, real madrid are still leading 2-1, the second goal being scored by zidane. the information i have given you has not prevented me from following the debate in its entirety very closely, which was of very high quality on this question of competences, which is at the heart of the nice and laeken declarations. the resolution you are about to adopt will be a central element in the debate on the future of the union. this is a central theme because it raises fundamental political questions. but at the same time it raises, as your rapporteur knows, very serious technical problems. the debates at the last session of the convention, as well as the contributions already submitted for the next session and the many expert statements, bear witness to this complexity. i should like to begin by thanking your assembly, ladies and gentlemen, for taking the initiative at the beginning of 2001 to launch a sort of forethought on this difficult question. i would also like to thank the various parliamentary committees, and in particular the committee on constitutional affairs, for the quality of their work. the resulting resolution retains great clarity despite the density and complexity of the subject. let me thank in particular mr alain lamassoure, who did not hesitate to carry out very wide consultations to finalise this report, even though the deadlines he was forced to meet were extremely strict. he did so with the spirit of openness and the great expertise of the texts that are so familiar to him. i think, as he does, that this text will be authoritative. the result of this collective approach is undeniably constructive because it leads to three important ideas, which we consider to be such, i say on behalf of the commission, and which i would like to comment on briefly. the first idea is to clarify the overall legal framework of the european union. this clarification is inseparable from ambitious institutional reform. it is proposed that a genuine constitution for the union be adopted, the second and third pillars be made community, a clearer distinction be made between legislative and executive work, a hierarchy of standards be established and the relevant instruments be better defined. of this very broad legal rebalancing, i naturally retain the keystone, that of the constitutionalisation of the union. the commission therefore hopes that the european union, with the incorporation of the charter of fundamental rights, will have a constitutional text. the second important idea in this report is that of a classification of competences into three categories: competences of principle of the member states, competences specific to the union and shared competences. i can understand this interesting and useful attempt to describe the current organization of competences. it seems to me, ladies and gentlemen, that we must now consider three risks. the risk of rigidity in the subject-by-subject classification, which was also mentioned by several members, could perhaps freeze the distribution of powers beyond what clarity requires. in the future, the union must be able to meet new challenges if necessary. i note in this connection the attention the resolution devotes to maintaining the flexibility of the system by proposing an evolutionary clause in the treaty. a second risk seems to me to be that of eliminating certain so-called functional legal bases, if we bind competences to subjects. for example, do we really want to abolish article 13 of the treaty, which allows for the fight against all forms of discrimination: sex, race, religion, age, etc.? i do not believe that, and that is probably not the intention behind this report. a third risk would be to ignore negative competences, those rules which directly impose restrictions on the exercise of member states' competences, for example the prohibition of measures restricting fundamental freedoms of movement. this is not a small detail, it is in this area that citizens acquire some of their essential rights in the european union. in the end, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a balance to be struck between the necessary rationalization of powers on the one hand and the sui generis nature of the union system, which we do not want to undermine, on the other. finally, there is a third major idea in this report: we must invent new ways of enforcing the requirements of subsidiarity and proportionality. the question of strengthening controls on the respect of the division of powers between the union and the member states is one of the most complex problems we will have to decide. the lively debates you have already had in the committee, i am told, show that no ideal solution, political or judicial, is indisputably necessary today. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion i would like to once again - beyond these remarks which i owed you - to express my sincere congratulations, as usual, on the quality of the work between our two institutions and to welcome the contribution of your assembly. it comes a week before the commission itself presents a broad contribution on the european project, in which you, mr lamassoure, ladies and gentlemen, find some of your ideas. it also comes on the eve of a very sensitive session of the convention, as you have said, at a time when we have spent a lot of useful time discussing the union's tasks in general debates, and before we get to the heart of the matter, and perhaps we are approaching a moment of truth. that is why i think that at this moment, a week before the next meeting of the convention, this contribution from your assembly is extremely important and will provide crucial information on this question of the competences of the european union. once again, it is absolutely crucial and even vital that parliament and the commission draw together the broad outlines of a common vision in the service of their shared interest in the renewed community model on which we are working, each other, and i would even say with each other. (applause) i would like to thank
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0157/2002) by mrs nicholson of winterbourne, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, on the situation in iraq 11 years after the gulf war (2000/2329 (ini)).
rapporteur. – mr president, it is an honour to present this report on iraq to parliament this evening. i commend it for the vote tomorrow and i hope and believe that as many colleagues as possible will support it. iraq is a country that is riven by tragedy: it is fraught with trauma, and the pain of its people stretches across the world. it is ruled by a tyrant, a predator, whose hunger for territory has led his army across into the islamic republic of iran; he initiated the iran-iraq war – a million people died. later, he moved into kuwait, with the results that we all know so well and into the north of iraq, where he chemically bombed the northern iraqis. and in the south of iraq, he has drained the historic iraqi marshlands. the actions of one man and his regime have destroyed 5000 years of unbroken human civilisation, causing the worst humanitarian tragedy since the second world war, according to the united nations special rapporteur for human rights of iraq. he is a man of deep cruelty, he runs a reign of terror and, as a recent émigré who fled from iraq said, he has made a modern concentration camp out of iraq. with such a situation, what can the european parliament offer? we need to think how different iraq could be. iraq has the capacity to be the wealthiest nation in the globe per capita with her oil and other resources. she has the example, in the three governates of northern iraq, of democracy and the rule of law. iraqi people are highly talented, most able and, until saddam hussein took over, they had a high standard of education and health and some democracy. so what does the report recommend that is different, that adds value to this very long-running debate? we make a number of proposals that i commend to this house. first, we recommend the establishment of an ad hoc international criminal tribunal. that has been called for before – i called for it myself in 1988. what is different? we are recommending that it is set up to try not just saddam hussein but all of his officials who have carried out gross violations of human rights, both inside and outside of iraq's territory. since that is difficult to set up, we recommend strongly and powerfully that the european union takes the initiative and sets up an office for inquiry into the huge violations of human rights. we should be able to collect and prepare the necessary evidence and to produce an official register of the numerous violations perpetrated by the iraqi regime. we want this to be set up without delay. we call upon the commission and the council of ministers to facilitate this and to make it happen. this would make a tremendous difference to the future of the iraqi people. secondly, we call for the nomination of the iraqi marshlands – drained down to the last 10% now – as a world heritage site. we believe that this could be done; it could be restored. we call upon the islamic republic of iran to take charge of the small patch of the marshlands still undrained that remains within its country. again we ask the international community and the european union to take special note of the 3.5 million refugees who fled from iraq in the last 11 years. those refugees are being given insufficient support. none of the oil-for-food programme goes to help them and they get very little else. we call upon the european union, and the commission in particular, to look at and review their programme and to provide good support for those refugees so that they can be retrained and can bring democracy back into the future iraq. so we are recommending a rehabilitation agenda. i have ignored the comments, the amendments that talk about war. this house has no competence over war or troops, so we are recommending that we should provide training and civilian support. we should call upon everyone to put every possible pressure upon the regime of iraq to let in the weapons inspectors and give them untrammelled access throughout the country. we see the future for iraq, and i call upon this house to support the report.
commission. – let me first congratulate baroness nicholson for her excellent overview of the situation in iraq eleven years after the gulf war and the impact of international action over the past decade. this is a good moment to take stock of the conditions in which the iraqi population is living; the way saddam hussein’s dictatorship is operating; and the continued threat he poses to his own people, to the region and to the world at large. i agree very much with the thrust of the report. our aim should be to focus international action, including sanctions, to maximise their impact on saddam hussein and his henchmen, and to minimise their effects on the people of iraq. the report highlights many serious problems in iraq, including the victimisation of political opponents of the regime, the humanitarian crisis, the systematic refusal by saddam hussein to comply with un obligations on weapons of mass destruction, and the destabilising influence of iraq on the region. particular attention is rightly given to human rights in iraq. the report offers a horrific account of human rights violations. there is widespread persecution of every kind of political opposition to the regime, as well as of the particular cases of the shi’ite inhabitants of the lower mesopotamia marshland, of the kurds and of other minorities living in the northern regions. saddam hussein has built up a double system of power. alongside the regular army and the administration there is a sort of “shadow state”, supported by family and military forces under his direct control, exerting pressure through abuse of power. it adds up to a permanent state of violence and unpunished illegality. we can only acknowledge the weak results achieved by un sanctions over the past eleven years. saddam hussein is still firmly in power. indeed, he bears down on the iraqi people more viciously than ever. un inspections have been suspended unilaterally by iraq and there is good reason to suspect that the regime has re-started its chemical and biological weapons programmes. the economic situation has worsened not so much as a consequence of the international embargo as non-cooperation of the iraqi authorities with the “oil-for-food” programme. it is clear where the fault lies. saddam hussein has shown a reckless disregard, not just for his international obligations, but for his own people. the suffering of the iraqi people could end tomorrow if baghdad would cooperate, credibly and constructively, with the international community, giving unrestricted access to the inspectors in charge of verifying the implementation of un resolutions. iraq must also respect her international obligations on the protection of human rights. the nicholson report proposes an ad hoc international tribunal on iraq. this is an idea we need to examine carefully, also in the light of work under way in other relevant international fora. i hope that this european parliamentary initiative will help to identify common elements of a policy which could enable the european union to play a more active role on this issue. coming to the specific recommendations the honourable member will know the limits of our role and competence in the commission, but i can recognise the case for effective freezing of financial assets of the iraqi leadership and denial of access to iraqi leaders. there is also a strong argument for closer monitoring of human rights, making more information publicly available and for putting more pressure on the iraqi regime for protection of the population and of minorities living in the country, in the framework of the un. as for the strengthening of democratisation measures in cooperation with the iraqi exile community, i must say that in present circumstances i am unclear as to what the scope and impact of such measures might be. the plight of iraq’s population has highlighted the difficulty of dealing with a regime which is as ruthless as it is reckless. i note and welcome the invitation in the report to explore every avenue for initiatives in favour of the iraqi population and refugees, and to reinforce the present activities carried out in the field of humanitarian assistance. we are ready to examine further measures to alleviate the suffering of the iraqi population. such action could also give encouragement for the organisation of opposition forces. since the gulf war in 1991 the european commission has been the major donor of humanitarian aid to iraq with over eur 270 million. over the last three years we have provided assistance of around eur 10 million annually. in this year we will provide some eur 13 million. but the impact of our help is reduced by the limitations placed upon it by saddam hussein’s regime. we need to think harder about how we can help the population by lifting restrictions on trade in non-military and non dual-use goods, while ensuring that we deny the regime the potential for weapons manufacture and enrichment. that is why we strongly welcome the agreement reached yesterday in the un security council on a resolution for a “smart sanctions programme”, refocusing the present efforts of the international community. i recognise that there is no chance of any serious improvement under the present regime. a different regime – almost any other regime – would be better for the iraqi population. but we must not lose sight of our own fundamental values and principles in our quest to help the iraqi people and to bring stability to the region. that is why i am absolutely convinced that we must continue to operate within the framework of the united nations.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0118/2002) by mrs pack, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, on the report from the commission to the council on the work of the eu-albania high level contact group in preparation for the negotiation of a stabilisation and association agreement with albania (com (2001) 300 - c5-0654/2001 - 2001/2277 (cos)).
commission. – i should like at the outset to thank the honourable member for her excellent report on albania. it must be said that the views expressed in it are, to a very large extent, shared by the commission. the serious financial crisis in 1997 brought albania to the verge of total collapse as a state. however, in overcoming this crisis, albania embarked on a period of relative stability. this allowed albania to start to implement reforms and to address a number of crucial problems. since 1998, we have seen the adoption of a relatively modern constitution and legislative framework, an overall improvement in macro-economic stability and fiscal sustainability, the effective implementation of the privatisation process, a considerable strengthening of the customs and tax administrations and real improvements in terms of security and public order. albania has also been positively contributing to the fragile stability of the region. its position regarding the recent conflict in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, for example, has been pretty helpful. this progress allowed the commission, in june 2001, to recommend, on balance, the opening of stabilisation and association agreement negotiations with albania, on condition, however, that it continued a consistent reform effort, including reinforcing democratic standards and administrative capacity. things have, alas, not gone nearly as well as we would have liked since june last year. although the 2001 parliamentary elections marked progress over previous elections, a number of isolated but serious irregularities were identified by international observers. as a result of these irregularities, the opposition decided to boycott the parliament. for several months, this decision impeded the proper functioning of albania’s democratic institutions. the internal conflicts within the ruling socialist party – very present since last autumn in the albanian political arena – ultimately led to the fall of the meta government in february. these developments have not enhanced albania’s case for early negotiation of an agreement. for several months, the attention of albanian politicians has been diverted from the essential task ahead: that of addressing, rapidly and efficiently, the many shortcomings identified in the june 2001 report by the commission. the reform process has slowed, there has been a loss of momentum and albania is not in the position to afford this. the majko government needs now to refocus very rapidly on the needed reforms and accelerate their implementation; to regain momentum and to guarantee a long-term commitment to reform. this is the only way for albania to ensure that it will be in a position to implement a future stabilisation and association agreement in full. the report before the house usefully underlines the points which the commission has been making to the albanians. as a result of our shared messages, we have recently seen some attempts by the albanian authorities to reinvigorate the reform process: important laws and bylaws are being passed. initial steps for the implementation of the osce office for democratic institutions and human rights recommendations have been carried out, the political environment appears to be becoming a little less confrontational. but these steps need to be consolidated. albania must demonstrate unequivocally that it is committed to the path of reform. this will be a crucial consideration for member states in deciding when, and at what pace, to conduct stabilisation and association agreement negotiations. albania needs to ensure long-term political stability as a sine qua non to tackle the difficult challenges ahead. in this context, the forthcoming presidential elections are a key test. the commission shares the report’s recommendation that a new president elected in a climate of consensus would be, by far, the best way to preserve – and further strengthen – stability. as i have just mentioned, the commission views political stability as a pre-condition for meaningful reform. this is why we believe that the manner in which these elections will be conducted and the potential impact of their results on albania's political stability should be factors to be taken into account when deciding to open negotiations. the commission’s views coincide with the pack report as regards the issues considered as important for the implementation of a stabilisation and association agreement. these include: reinforcement of the implementation capacity of the albanian administration; albania’s judicial system should be substantially improved and freed from corruption and political interference; organised crime and all types of trafficking should be vigorously combated; energy sector reform should be rigorously implemented in order to prevent more serious consequences for the albanian economy and so on. i am sure the house will have noticed that the recent commission report on the stabilisation and asociation process makes very similar points. i want to make one final point on the draft negotiating directives which, as the house knows, are being finalised in the council. firstly, i fully share the view expressed in the report that the negotiating directives to be given to the commission must enable us to ensure that albania will be in the position to implement all commitments it may undertake during negotiations. i can assure the house that the commission wants to carry out serious negotiations, and does not intend to finalise them until it is satisfied that albania can effectively implement its obligations under a stabilisation and association agreement. moreover, i can also confirm that the draft negotiating directives address the various subjects indicated under paragraph 10 of the report’s resolution – such as human and minority rights, the rule of law and so on – and that proper attention will be paid to these topics during negotiations. a final point: these negotiations, these agreements, are not a political fix, they are not a political gesture. they are contractual agreements of very considerable importance and we cannot allow them to be determined by political lobbying. they have to be decided by real action, real reform and real commitment on the ground. (applause)
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0039/2002) by mr rothley, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, on recommendations to the commission for the preparation of a european parliament and council directive on a system of book prices (2001/2061 (ini)).
mr president, some members of the ppe/de group support mr rothley's report and some do not. i am one of the latter. i would like to explain why. the rationale behind the proposal that member state governments will be able to allow publishers, artificially, to keep up the cost of "literature" as opposed to – as i understand it – airport novels, seems to me to be both silly and wrong. in my own country the abolition of re-sale price-fixing for books has coincided with an increase in numbers of books sold and published. no doubt this is partly the result of developments in technology, but to maintain that making literature more expensive than it need be is in some way in the public interest frankly stretches my incredulity beyond breaking point. i should like to give an example. as the house may know, the commissioner has written a number of books. there was one particular one that caught my fancy, which i thought i might like to buy. the cover price was not that expensive but it struck me as being a bit on the high side, so i sucked my teeth a bit and did not get it. but then i saw in a bookshop a discounted copy. before you could say "knife" i had opened my wallet, put my money on the table and had a copy of the book. i was the beneficiary of the commissioner's wisdom and he had a small advantage of my money which otherwise would not have occurred. having said all that i am a believer in subsidiarity. it seems to me that if member states wish to introduce some kind of book pricing regime into their own country, it is not for me to stand in their way. i say that subject to one proviso, and an important one: against that background the rules of the single market should apply in their entirety. books published elsewhere in the community, in whatever language, should be able to be imported and sold according to the rules in force and the place of publication. those are exactly the same principles as apply in the case of satellite broadcasting, which is essentially similar.
commission. – mr president, i should like to wish the honourable member many happy returns for tomorrow. i have to say that i have just had my birthday. i began speaking this morning at 9 a.m., just after my birthday, and i am delighted – six debates later on – to be almost welcoming the honourable member's birthday. anyway, it is a pleasure to have begun the proceedings today and to be bringing the curtain down in this exciting debate, a debate whose excitement has been greatly enhanced by discovering that the honourable member has found a remaindered copy of one of my books. i hope it was not a signed copy, as well as remaindered! but i can assure him that he could have got many cheap copies among those that were pirated in asia over the last three or four years. let me turn to this very serious subject, which i know has raised great passions and has produced a great deal of intellectual energy over the years: the question of the systems of fixed book prices in the member states, which, as honourable members have said, has been around for some time. the commission shares the court of justice’s opinion that truly national book price-fixing systems are not contestable as long as they respect the principles defined by the court and do not have a restrictive effect on trade between member states. the commission maintains its position, based on the case-law of the court, that it is not necessary to harmonise these systems. this is consistent with internal market principles and the objectives of cultural policy. furthermore, as the house will probably know, the commission has recently presented a proposal for a regulation on sales promotion which explicitly allows national fixed book prices. at the same time, it provides that member states should not impose a limitation on the value of sales promotion, except in the case of discounts. this may address in particular some of the concerns expressed by the honourable member in relation to matters related to culture. i notice that the honourable member's resolution aims to provide a community definition of "circumvention" of the national price-fixing system and that this can be extended to booksellers in other member states. this definition reflects too broad an understanding of the notion of circumvention. it could undermine the free intra-community trade of books, in particular via the internet. i also note that the honourable member’s proposal gives no guarantee against any adverse effect it could have on trade between member states. there may also be a question of the legal basis. the cultural provisions of article 151 of the treaty state that the community can encourage cooperation in this area but not legislate. the subsidiarity aspects of any such proposal would therefore have to be studied extremely carefully. a further consideration is the commission’s commitment to better regulation. any proposal to change a legal situation which has been dealt with by the court must demonstrate clear benefits. there is currently no evidence to indicate that the court’s case-law has to be further clarified. the commission will examine parliament’s proposed directive in the light of the case-law of the court and will assess, in consultation with the member states, whether or not an initiative is necessary and what form it should take. at this stage however, there is little or no convincing evidence that legislative action is needed or is, indeed, appropriate. the commission will continue to observe the markets and examine their effects on potential circumvention of national price-fixing systems, taking into account the cultural diversity of the book market and the existence of clear case-law of the court of justice. thirty seconds early: happy birthday!
- and that's what we all want for you. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (the sitting was suspended at 12 p.m.) the next item is the report (doc.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy. – mr president, on behalf of the committee, i should like to warmly welcome both reports and thank the rapporteurs for their excellent work. it is clear that the eu should be playing a leadership role in johannesburg. our own treaty commitments oblige us to do so, and european citizens expect us to do so. that means that the council and the commission must listen to parliament's views and respond to them, because it is clear that parliament wishes to see measures that are both ambitious and more targeted. the development council and the seville summit should therefore insist on a proper revision of the commission's communication in order to address existing gaps, add timetables for implementation and develop action plans for each measure. we do not need any more monitoring of the problem: we are in danger of going down as the only species that monitors its own extinction instead of taking steps to prevent it. we need bold, imaginative action plans and we need them now. the commission rightly identifies what it calls a global governance gap, with global market forces running far ahead of the ability of institutional mechanisms to contain them. and yet the measures which the commission proposes to close that gap are woefully insufficient. in particular, the commission's disproportionate emphasis on free trade and investment as engines for development should be balanced with far stronger commitments to binding frameworks for corporate accountability. as a first step we are proposing a directive on mandatory social and environmental performance. wto rules must also be reformed to allow governments to make the vital distinctions that need to be made between products on the basis of the way in which they have been produced. how else can we move towards more sustainable production and consumption practices? it is hard to overstate the importance of urgent action at johannesburg. it has been estimated that if we continue with our current production and consumption patterns we will soon need an extra three planets in order to provide the necessary resources and absorb the wastes. we do not have three planets; we have just one planet, and it is already showing signs of major degradation. johannesburg has to deliver results.
mr president, i would like to thank the two rapporteurs for their excellent reports which draw attention to the problems and the solutions. the environment, social and cultural issues, development and governance are, of course, all intrinsically connected. this is shown by the fact that despite some advances since the rio summit, man-made climate change is still unabated. vital resources are being further depleted and the gap between rich and poor becomes ever wider. so many opportunities were presented in rio, and as mr papayannakis' report states, so many expectations were raised with the kyoto protocol, the cartagena protocol and so on, but they failed to progress. it is not really any surprise that so many ngos are already predicting negative outcomes for johannesburg. but people expect us in the european union to take a lead on these issues and we cannot shirk that responsibility. in another ten years, people will be asking what action we took in 2002 to address and to reverse the lack of progress in the past ten years. other colleagues have made very many important points relating to the summit. i would like to draw attention to one other aspect and that is the need to look at diversity in its widest sense, including the cultural aspects. the future needs sustainable communities in the true definition of that concept. today, about half of the 6 000 or so languages spoken in different parts of the world are under threat: that means that 3 000 languages are either seriously endangered or are dying. the need to protect and enhance the diversity of cultures in the world becomes even more urgent in the face of increasing globalisation. we need to ensure that an artificial polarisation between the needs of the environment and the needs of people is not allowed to develop any further. so i welcome the positive and the constructive comments of the rapporteurs, as mr lannoye said, "this is a major challenge and we need to take a radical new approach".
madam president, i congratulate the rapporteur, mr lannoye. i share his view that the commission communication is too long on description, but too short on action. i should like to make two points. the first point concerns the section of the communication on trade for sustainable development. the commission is still too willing to make the unthinking assumption that trade liberalisation is an aim in itself, rather than a tool to serve the greater purpose of sustainable development. contrary to the commission's assertion that most causes of global inequality are unrelated to globalisation, the widening gap between the rich and the poor has developed precisely because unregulated markets and free capital mobility have tended to favour the countries, companies and individuals most able to harness these forces for their own benefit, at the expense of those with fewer resources or less political and economic influence. accelerated environmental degradation over recent years has occurred as a direct result of the increase in resource consumption and economic activity generated under globalisation. secondly, coming from parliament's rapporteur on corporate social responsibility, the commissioner will not be surprised to be told that his commitment to simply promoting the oecd guidelines for multinational enterprise is wholly inadequate, in parliament's view, as the european union's contribution to developing global corporate accountability. in today's global economy there is mounting evidence that multinationals registered in the north, the majority of them within the european union, are actually causing harm in developing countries. transgressions include abusing workers' rights and causing them bodily harm, destroying local lands and livelihoods, promoting harmful products to consumers, breaking national laws and undermining local democracy. that is why we will support paragraph 59 in the resolution. the eu should use its development assistance and other external powers to pursue the objective of binding minimum standards with respect to the social and environmental performance of companies. commissioner, you can make a good start by making a clear and unambiguous commitment in your response to support the proposed framework convention on corporate accountability at the johannesburg summit. i look forward to your answer.
madam president, i want to take a little time to talk about corporate social responsibility and sustainable development, not from the left but from the right of this chamber. unless the corporate social responsibility issues are understood properly, this will become another sort of shibboleth for the global economy. global economy requires global rules. if you do not have global rules to sustain the development of our planet, we are going to end up with a problem where the rich get richer and the poor get poorer, the environment will get worse and sustainable development flies out of the window. sixty thousand people will be wasting their time in johannesburg in september. the last time there was a semblance of any sort of global economy was during the period of the empires, when the british, the french, the italians and the spanish empires went out and created economic activity. but even the british east india company had social corporative responsibility: they built schools; they cleaned up bengal; they built railways; they put infrastructure in and they created offset investments. that is how the inter-dependency between economies of the poorer and the richer countries developed. today, corporate social responsibility requires us to recognise that if you take the top 200 largest multinational companies, their combined turnover is greater than the combined gnp of 172 countries. so the 200 chairmen of these companies have enormous social responsibility. we need to enjoin them to forge a partnership for development; not carp about what they do, but help them, because shareholder value depends hugely now, even in the city of london, on whether companies behave ethically. i have seen time and time again that companies with proper environmental and development policies have higher shareholder value than those companies that engage in looting and raping the other places. so i am asking colleagues on my right, not colleagues on my left who are already there, to understand that inter-dependence requires us to look at our own economic and enterprise development and tell our companies to be partners in this development process.
commission. – mr president, at the world food summit in 1996 participants, including the european commission, pledged their commitment to halving the number of undernourished people by 2015. this target has been confirmed by the millennium declaration adopted by the united nations in september 2000. current information indicates, however, that although considerable efforts have been made in many countries to reduce poverty and improve food security, hunger is not yet being reduced fast enough to meet the world food summit plan of action. in a world of increasing prosperity and plentiful food supplies, it is unacceptable that close to 800 million people still suffer from hunger and malnutrition. eliminating hunger is one of the most important challenges facing humanity, and can only be achieved through concerted action by national governments and the international community. this has led the fao to convene heads of state and government to the world food summit five years later to review the progress made in achieving the 1996 goals and to reaffirm the political commitment to fighting poverty. the commission has made considerable efforts in line with the 1996 commitments and its plan of action. poverty reduction has become the overall objective of the community development policy, and food security objectives are being tackled by a broad range of policies and instruments. the forthcoming world food summit provides an opportunity to renew the commission’s commitment, to present our views and to report on progress made. the summit is to be seen in the broader international context of a series of high-level events, such as the least-developed countries' conference in brussels, doha, monterrey and johannesburg, providing fresh impetus and new opportunities to make progress towards sustainable development. food security is a major dimension and indicator for poverty reduction and is a key element in this context. the summit will be able to build on the commitments and results of the various international processes and should integrate food security objectives more firmly into the broader poverty reduction agenda and strengthen the links to sustainable natural resource management and through this to sustainable development. food security/rural development is one of the six focal areas in the overall development policy. the outcome of the summit will be a political declaration, negotiated among the fao membership. the commission and member states are preparing a joint position. the declaration will call for a strengthening of political will and for the identification of adequate measures to accelerate the implementation of the plan of action. the concluding negotiations with fao members will take place during the committee on food security before the actual summit. as a last point, i would like to reiterate the political will of the european community to support realistic and sustainable recommendations at the world food summit to meet the challenges of the fight against hunger, both at national and international level. this summit will provide another political opportunity to pursue our dialogue with the developing countries and to demonstrate our solidarity with the less-developed countries and poor hungry people everywhere in the world.
madam president, i wish to begin by thanking the commissioner for his statement. however, let me say to him that i hope the outcome from rome will be more than a statement: i hope it will be a programme of determined action. the public's perception of hunger is very often the televisual one of famine. however, over the last 25 years that has been largely identified with conflict situations, and the real problem is malnutrition. poor water leads to disease and disability and to death and, of course, the loss of a productive workforce. that in turn leads to low-income countries, which leads to malnutrition, and that is the cycle we want to break. it is exacerbated when humanitarian aid undermines local farmers and local economies. we feel good giving our food surpluses to low-income countries, not realising that can do more harm than good to the producers of food in those countries. it is exacerbated again when we close our doors in europe to their agricultural exports, on the perfectly understandable grounds of hygiene and food safety. there is a spiralling problem here. it means that we prevent them from earning enough to afford to meet our standards. when i was in cape town for the acp, it was absurd that local producers were asking me to help them. they wanted their high-quality springbok meat to be served in europe as in their top-quality hotels throughout africa but, because of the rules on slicing meat, they could not afford the equipment and could not enter the market. that is the sort of thing we must guard against. to get back to the basic challenges. it is a quarter of a century since we set our targets. we said we must solve the problem and, then, in 1996, we identified 800 million people undernourished. we aimed again to halve that number by 2015: that means over 20 years, a reduction of 22 million a year. but we are reducing at 6 million a year, and five years on we are not going to meet our target. the target will not be reached until 2030. the paradox is that world food production has outpaced population growth: the 5.8 billion in the world today have, on average, 15% more food per person than the 4 billion 20 years ago. but per capita food production has not increased in the high-debt, low-income countries, especially in sub-saharan africa. that is where our attention should be focused. in 2000, out of 5.8 billion people, 826 million people were still hungry. by 2015 – our target year – 580 million will still be hungry at the present rate. i ask the commission and all of us to remember that the united nations development programme estimates that it would take just usd 13 billion a year to solve this problem. usd 13 billion a year is what we in europe and america spend on cosmetics. i ask them to think that in the last 50 years almost 400 million worldwide have died from hunger and poor sanitation. that is three times the number of people killed in all the wars fought in the entire 20th century. lastly, i ask you remember that every year some nine million people die from hunger. that is 24 000 deaths a day; it is one life lost every 3.6 seconds; it is 50 dead in the three minutes i have been speaking. those are the things we should be thinking about when we are in rome on 10 june, and that is why i ask for action and not just statements.
mr president, amendment no 1 in the english texts opens with the phrase 'considers that there is a continuing democratic deficit in the european union', and goes on to say that, 'we should democratise the institutions therefore...'. in some language versions, the english word 'continuing' has been translated as 'permanent' which, for example in spanish, gave rise to some distress. english is the original text. could the translation services please get it right in the other languages.
mr president, i hope i am not too late. i asked in a note for an oral amendment to insert the word "by", so that it would read "or by the committee of the regions", and that would make a considerable difference.
rapporteur. – mr president, i have an oral compromise amendment to recommend to the committee, which updates paragraph 14. two days ago there was a new united nations security council resolution on iraq. my oral amendment would delete paragraph 14 and take account of amendments nos 12, which would fall, 13 and part of 15. i recommend that it becomes a new paragraph 6a, as the pse group requests: "welcomes, as long as it does not lead to an increase in military expenditure, the adoption by the united nations security council of a new resolution 1409 (2002), creating more streamlined procedures for goods to be purchased for iraq, which removes most restrictions on non-military and non-dual use trade and investments, while maintaining the arms embargo. passed in order to ameliorate the humanitarian crisis in basic needs. urges the united nations to tighten controls on iraq's ability to import weapons and weapons-related goods and to remove all other related remaining sanctions;"
rapporteur. – mr president, i recommend a vote against amendment no 12. we have placed this amendment in 6a in order to respond to the pse group request. this is a sensible amendment which covers the entirety of the requests from the pse group. i would vote against amendment no 12.
in writing. - the british conservatives abstain on this resolution. we have always advocated greater transparency, openness and accountability, but this has nothing to do with the desire to impose the primacy of the community method in the whole decision-making process of the european union.
in writing. - according to the view of the uk independence party, i cannot support any formalisation of the division of powers between the european union and the member states. we believe that there is no place in a stable and prosperous europe for the kind of supranationalism represented by the european union. we do not believe that in order to live in harmony, we should delegate certain powers to a central authority that transcends the nation state - which we consider to be the foundation of democracy. on the other hand, we are in favour of the type of intergovernmental management in force in the council of europe and the commonwealth, where independent nation states cooperate freely on problems of common interest. here we believe that the uk should act in accordance with its ideal of 'good neighbourliness', respecting the rights and independence of other nation states and playing a responsible role in the world community. the report, which is intended to limit or clarify the community's powers, even if it is well-reasoned, is therefore contrary to our basic conception of cooperation between nation states. i therefore voted against.
mr president, indonesia is a massive country, both in terms of population and area. it is also a multi-ethnic, multi-religious and multi-region nation, and any indonesian government has our sympathy and goodwill in its efforts to hold its disparate regions, religions and cultures together. to do so, as our motion suggests, it must face up to the causes of disunity and confront those of evil intent. i was recently in east timor as the eu's chief observer. i saw for myself the aftermath of the depths of depravity to which an out-of-control situation in that part of the world can sink with militia terror, destruction and murder, with the military standing by. i hope that indonesia will now both set an example by holding out the hand of friendship to the new nation of timor loro sae as it becomes independent on 20 may, but i also hope that it will learn from timor in dealing with other parts of indonesia, particularly the moluccas, papua, sulawesi and aceh. laskar jihad is a threat to the first three of these. laskar jihad's website used to boast of links to bin laden terror groups. we know that 5,000 moluccans have died. another 12 christians died recently on the same day that the leader of laskar jihad, thalib, launched his renewed jihad. on 4 may we heard that he had been arrested. that is almost one year to the day since he was previously arrested – and what happened? there was no trial, no sentence. he was quietly released when the world stopped looking. we have, mr commissioner, to make sure that the world does not stop looking on this occasion and we want to make sure that action is taken. we want the authorities there to investigate links to the military. how did indonesian army weapons and ammunition – i have the photographs in front of me – come to be in the hands of laskar jihad? how is it that in papua six members of the army's special forces are now accused of involvement in the assassination of a papuan leader? who gave those orders? we are proud to be friends of indonesia, but we can only be friends of a country that genuinely strives for justice, reconciliation, peace, security and the trust of its own people.
mr president, we are here to express our concern at the recent outbreak of inter-communal violence that has erupted in the indian state of gujarat – violence which has claimed hundreds of lives and left thousands homeless and destitute. i am sure that parliament will join me in expressing condolences and profound sympathy to the members of both communities who have suffered loss and bereavement, including relatives of my own london constituents. there is some history to the inter-communal violence in gujarat including, it must be said, persecution of christians by hindu extremists. the latest outbreak began after muslim extremists killed 58 hindu pilgrims on a train near godhra – a deeply callous act which unleashed a round of reprisals and counter-reprisals. this chain of events has generated considerable soul-searching in india itself, a country founded on the rule of law and secular democracy, with accusations that the state authorities did not react quickly enough to the scale of events. no system of government is perfect, but since the army was called in, 30 thousand arrests have been made, with 80% of those arrested being hindus. in addition, it is significant that the violence did not spread to other parts of india and large areas of gujerat itself remained calm. in the indian parliament, the government accepted the congress party opposition's motion as the basis for discussion with cross-party support, reaffirming its belief in democratic pluralism and respect for minorities in a giant country of over a billion people of diverse backgrounds and race, and the independent justice verma commission is now reporting back to the government. clearly lessons have to be learned, but we should not forget that india is currently reeling from a series of atrocious terrorist attacks by islamic jihadi extremists – most recently the killing of 30 people, including women and children, and scores of wounded on the outskirts of jammu. this attack makes the dangerous threat of war more likely between nuclear-armed india and pakistan, a country which regrettably and, until recently, actively supported islamic terrorists. the international community must urgently do everything possible to prevent any further escalation of violence which might threaten global peace.
mr president, although i appear on the list as an author, my group is not a signatory to this joint resolution, although we are likely to support it. as previous speakers have said, probably none of us in this chamber would deny the devastating effects of religious extremism. in the case of gujarat, as mr tannock mentioned, it is actually hindu extremism. it was the action of those so-called "pilgrims" which resulted in an appalling massacre of 58 people. we have seen the fallout from that in what is euphemistically called "inter-communal violence". the resolution states that whereas numerous independent inquiries by human rights organisations confirm that state officials and the police of gujarat were involved in the clashes, this involvement runs deep. it is not just a question of a casual street brawl but orchestrated violence and intimidation over a sustained period. the human rights watch report states that the gujarat government chose to characterise the violence as a spontaneous reaction to the incidents at godhra. human rights watch findings and those of numerous indian human rights and civil liberties organisations and most of the indian press indicate that the attacks on muslims throughout the state were planned well in advance of the godhra incident and organised with extensive police participation and in close cooperation with officials of the bjp state government. on 3 april india's national human rights commission released the preliminary findings of its report on the violence, a strong indictment of the failure of the gujarat government to contain the violence. the very authorities to whom people should have been able to look for protection were, in many cases, complicit in devastating attacks and increasing the level and ferocity of violence which makes every citizen feel threatened, whatever their religion or background. there are now about 100 refugee camps organised by ngos in the area. a mere handful see support from the government of gujarat state. that authority has a responsibility for the wellbeing and care of these people now and in future. the indian government has an overall responsibility to see that justice is done and that the instigators, organisers and perpetrators of this violence are brought to justice. they will also need to ensure that the police force in gujarat is made to recognise that it owes a duty to all people who may be under threat or attack, not just their own. clear signals are needed from the government – indeed we have had some – that religious intolerance and incitement to religious hatred have no place in secular, democratic india. my group welcomes the ruling of the indian supreme court in march this year banning any religious ceremonies at ayodhya until the definite legal settlement of the case which we hope will be in the interests of a peaceful, long-term solution.
mr president, it is sometimes hard to keep a clear head when grievances fill the air and i think we are seeing the results of that. it is clear that certain allegations have been made about the activity of certain commissioners and others in a case involving fisheries, but this matter has been considered by the conference of presidents. the fisheries committee has been asked to look into it and report back to the conference of presidents and i understand that the budgetary control committee is also looking into it. it is important that we allow due process to take place in parliament before raising these issues in plenary. it is also important that we do not mix the question of these allegations with a very important communication that the commission has brought forward on the future of the common fisheries policy on how to safeguard fish stocks for future generations. so i would ask you, mr president, to ask mr schulz, on behalf of the socialist group, to bring this back to the conference of presidents in due course.
mr president, as mr watson said, we have had a full investigation on this matter in the fisheries committee at the request of the conference of presidents. we have now drawn up a report based on a very frank two-hour hearing that we held with mr fischler, who gave very frank answers to a barrage of questions. we will be submitting that report to the conference of presidents after the fisheries committee has had a further look at the report to make sure they agree that it is a fair record of the hearing that took place last week. our job in the fisheries committee, as brian crowley has just said, is now to focus our attention on the common fisheries policy reform package. to do otherwise and put any further obstacles in the way of getting this reform back on track, is simply to play into the hands of those who sought to derail the whole process in the first place. i would hope this house would support the fisheries committee in looking at the reform package. if there are other questions to be asked about personnel management or any other aspect of this controversy, then i would leave that to your good offices in the conference of presidents.
mr president, i accept the reasons that the conference of presidents had in the first place for keeping separate the debate about the substance of the proposals which we are all very anxious to be getting on with. but i also believe that we have unfinished business in relation to the recent controversy. as others have said, there are wider issues that are worthy of further inquiry. for instance, it is a remarkable coincidence that 10 years ago, the last time the cfp was under review, the then director-general of fisheries departed in very similar circumstances during a very similar controversy. so in order to clear up the cloud that could hang over the commission in this matter, i think there is a case for further consideration, separately from the fisheries committee's consideration of the substance of the proposals.
mr president, it is appropriate i raise my point after this exchange because the greatest political excitement in the brussels village at present is the machinations and intrigues on the fisheries policy, rather than the content of it which is of course very important. it is a great pity that we do not have the flexibility to insert on our agenda a debate on the threat of nuclear war in asia between india and pakistan. i wish to protest that we are navel-gazing and ignoring the greatest threat to the world's security today – a war in which millions of people could die. i am glad that mr solana, mr patten and mr straw have gone to the region, and i am not saying a european parliament debate would be decisive, but we seem to be ignoring the issue. the european parliament is therefore abdicating any claim to seek to build an effective eu common foreign and security policy. when such a threat is hanging over the world, to be honest, it puts some of what we have heard in the last quarter of an hour into perspective.
mr president, on 10 april we debated the gonzález álvarez report on ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin. i was the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market in relation to that report. it was withdrawn on 10 april because of an agreement that there was no adequate legal basis for the measure as it then stood. by way of an emergency, it was rushed through the committee on agriculture and rural development yesterday in a new form without any reference back to the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. that is an irregular way of proceeding and i request that committee on legal affairs and the internal market be asked, even it is asked to do it quickly, to verify that a legal base exists for this measure in its new form. while i am on my feet on the issue of rule 63, a lot of the issues under the common fisheries policy reform raise profound issues of legal base, and hopefully that will thoroughly considered in the committee on legal affairs and the internal market as well as the committee on fisheries.
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am very grateful to be able to present to you the substance of the reform which we adopted yesterday as a proposal to the fisheries council and parliament. it is not an exaggeration or a cheap rhetoric to say that only by means of a profound reform can we give our fishermen and fish stocks a future. the current fisheries policy is not sustainable and is therefore doomed to failure. more and more stocks are threatened with collapse. the fishing capacity is not decreasing, it is increasing. the controls and sanctions are unequal and therefore unfair. with ever-increasing effort, fewer and fewer fish are caught. economic opportunities for fishermen are deteriorating and many are being forced to give up despite higher public subsidies. i have been asked many times how it could have come to this. my answer is that the system we have is wrong! we need a change in the system, not a cure for the symptoms. the future fisheries policy needs clear objectives. the reform must lead to a new fisheries policy that ensures sustainable development in ecological, economic and social terms. we need responsible fisheries and aquaculture that support healthy marine ecosystems. we want to create a high-performing and competitive sector which also benefits consumers. we must also ensure that those who are particularly dependent on fishing have a fair economic environment. in the new fisheries policy, we also want to apply the principles of new governance by ensuring openness and transparency in our actions, involving the sector itself, clarifying responsibilities, developing rapid decision-making procedures and ensuring coherence with other policies. the extent of the reform is best illustrated by contrasting the existing policy with the future one. so far, the fisheries council has decided on the tucs and quotas in december each year, and every year the scientific recommendations are watered down by compromises. in addition, the existing system has not so far provided an effective barrier to illegal catches and excessive by-catches of juvenile fish. we have based our stock policy and its control on quotas, rather than establishing a clear direct link between scientifically established stocks and much easier to monitor fishing effort. we have pursued a fleet policy with objectives which have not led to any appreciable reduction in capacity and with measures which have completely countered the support for scrapping by the support for new shipbuilding, instead of establishing a link between the stocks which are most productive under capacity pressure and the reduction necessary to allow individual fishermen a reasonable level of fishing effort. we have contributed to the fact that today there is a race between increasingly efficient vessels for fewer and fewer fish, with the consequence that the economic performance has deteriorated despite rising fish prices, and with the consequence that between 1991 and 1998 some 66 000 jobs have already been lost. we have reinforced this trend by using the funds primarily for the acquisition of new, more efficient vessels rather than for measures which would have shown the people concerned alternatives. finally, we have sown a climate of mistrust through completely different controls and sanctions, so that today everyone believes that he is treated worse than his colleague in the neighbouring country, instead of ensuring a so-called level playing field. for all these reasons, we want to create a new, coherent system that, if possible, will steer itself towards the fulfilment of its objectives, rather than acting as a death spiral. we are starting with those stocks in the sea which are usually fished together. we will let science assess their condition and, if necessary, develop multiannual recovery and management plans. this allows us to determine the fishing effort that stocks can withstand and the technical measures that need to be applied. in other words, in future we will be setting less and less annual tacs and quotas, but we will be setting how many vessels can fish with which nets and how many days in certain zones. this system is also much easier to control with the help of the vms and can also be adapted from year to year depending on the evolution of the stocks. where there is overcapacity, those fishermen who are unable to use their vessels will have to ask themselves: is it more attractive for me to continue, or do i leave the sector, have my vessel scrapped and retire, or do i have to be retrained for another profession? but we must stop using premiums to encourage the fishermen concerned to invest without a proper economic environment. instead, we want to use public funds to help those who are leaving to build a positive future, while also improving the prospects for the remaining ship owners. the first step in financing this approach is to reprogram the existing fisheries structural programmes. the member states can no longer hide behind the argument that we should wait until 2006. the possibility of reprogramming is already provided for under the existing rules. we propose that the existing funds be used for ship exports and joint ventures for scrapping, and that instead of encouraging the purchase of new ships and thus maintaining artificial competition, eur 450 million be used for social measures. we believe it is absolutely essential that this money should be spent on social measures in the future, because we estimate, on the basis of preliminary calculations, that some 7 000 jobs could be lost annually because of the reduced fishing effort. in addition, there are other jobs that are lost every year anyway, for example because the fishing sector is also working with increasingly modern techniques that are less labour intensive. in any case, if necessary, additional new funds should be made available for demolition and social aid. that's the main difference. i told you that in the last few years, 8,000 jobs have been lost every year without reform. the social security of these jobs is to be covered by a budget of some eur 100 million over the entire duration of the current structural programme. eur 800 million is earmarked for the acquisition of new vessels. it is really appropriate that we pay more attention to people and that we make sure that this extra money goes to people and not new ships! (applause from the centre) the result of all this will be a smaller but more competitive fleet, with fishing effort much better matched to available resources. the fleet will also be economically healthier and less dependent on aid. in order to strengthen the single system of fisheries surveillance, we propose the establishment of a common fisheries inspectorate. the aim is to coordinate national and eu control activities and to share the resources used for these purposes. the fishermen do not fish only within the borders of their own country. then why should the inspectors only check in their home waters? the inspections are then carried out, whether in the biscay or the channel, by teams of inspectors from several member states. but common controls also require harmonization of sanctions. member states which do not comply with the common rules may be subject to quota deductions, reductions in fishing effort or cuts in structural funds. i am aware that some in the sector are initially suspicious of these considerations. we cannot blame anyone for this, because those directly concerned by fisheries policy have been largely excluded from decisions taken so far. we must also look at the question of the future of the community. but we also need to make all our decisions transparent and comprehensible, so that fishermen no longer feel that fishing is like animal farming, where everyone is the same, only some are more alike. we also want to promote dialogue at international level, particularly between the european union and those countries with which we have fisheries agreements. our global fisheries strategy includes an action plan to tackle illegal fishing, a better assessment of the state of stocks accessible to eu vessels outside eu waters and an integrated framework for partnerships in fisheries. let me summarize . our first reform package contains our objectives for the future, the reform proposals for conservation, the integration of environmental objectives into fisheries policy, fleet policy, fisheries control and the fight against illegal fishing. we will be adding further proposals and reports on the conservation of stocks in the mediterranean, fishing outside eu waters, fisheries monitoring, aquaculture, the integration of economic elements into fisheries policy and fleet restructuring in coastal areas. our timetable takes into account that the measures may enter into force on 1 january 2003. if we have the courage to make responsible choices, there is also hope for sustainable fisheries, balanced ecosystems, greater independence of the sector and economic and social stabilisation of our coastal regions. i therefore invite you to support the fisheries reform. you can count on my commitment. let me just briefly touch on some of the reports that have been in the media today. it is clear from this that vice-president palacio vallelersundi does not agree with the fisheries reform. there are also a number of other articles published along similar lines. i find that regrettable. i would like to make it clear that it is perfectly normal for a commissioner to write letters to a colleague in the run-up to a decision, but it is regrettable the choice of words in that letter. i would like to make one thing clear, if there is any question of provocation - i mean, there is only one thing that would be a provocation, namely if we were not able to reform the fisheries sector thoroughly! so let us discuss the content of the reform so that this sector and the people who work in it have a future! (applause from the centre)
mr president, i am grateful to the commissioner for his presentation. of course, radical reform of the cfp was long overdue and the commission is to be congratulated on producing a dynamic first package of proposals, particularly in view of the concerted effort to derail the reforms, which we were speaking about at the beginning of this meeting, and the attendant storm of controversy that this clumsy bullying tactic created. i welcome the proposals to make permanent the 6 and 12-mile zones which are essential safeguards for fisheries. i am delighted to see significant devolution of management and conservation controls to the member states within these zones. indeed, devolution of management is a core feature of these cfp reform proposals. the creation of regional advisory councils involving fishermen, scientists, representatives of the aquaculture sector, marine ecologists and even the recreational angling sector, together with regional politicians represents a breakthrough in stakeholder involvement. i applaud the bravery of the commission in demanding an immediate end to the bizarre spectacle of subsidising modernisation and new building of vessels in some member states, while subsidising the scrapping of vessels in others. we all know that there are far too many fishermen chasing too few fish. we all know the eu fleet capacity must be cut. we must therefore insist that all public aid be switched from modernisation and restructuring and new building to scrapping. however, as regards overall capacity reduction in the eu fleet there is great concern about the commission's figures. according to my calculations, on a country-by-country basis, the northern member states who have fished primarily in the north sea, the baltic and the atlantic will suffer a 21.3% cut in gross tonnage. meanwhile, the southern member states who fish in the mediterranean, the adriatic and the bay of biscay will experience only a 9.2% cut in gross tonnage. taking individual examples, the uk will be required to scrap 23.1%, belgium 25.3%, denmark 27.3% and sweden will face a staggering loss of 49.7% of her gross tonnage. meanwhile, spain, with by far the largest fleet in the eu, escapes with only a 9.4% cut and italy with the second largest fleet only suffers a cut of 7.3%. people are wondering if the commission has bowed to bullying pressure from spain. we will closely scrutinise these figures in the committee. the commissioner said that we do not want to go down the road of everyone being equal, but some people being more equal than others – that seems to be exactly the road we are going down with these proposed cuts. (applause)
mr president, the eldr group welcomes the proposals that the commission has brought forward. in its resolution on the green paper, parliament asked for a policy that would strike a balance between the needs of environmental sustainability and of fisheries as a socio-economic sector. indeed, the very future of that sector depends on our commitment today to the conservation of stocks. we agree that there is an urgent need to reduce fishing effort, and that this has to be effected in part by a reduction of capacity. it must, however, be done in an equitable manner, as well as in a way that reflects the actual state of the different stocks. nor can we expect sustainability to be achieved through decommissioning alone. we need a clear picture of the other measures that are planned towards this end and how they will combine to bring it about. undoubtedly, the promised long-term approach, setting multi-annual catch targets, will be a major improvement and help to solve the problem of discards. the proposals also bring good news, not just for juvenile fish but for other vulnerable species such as dolphins, sea birds and sharks. we welcome too the intention to bring about better enforcement of the rules and the action planned to fight illegal fishing and ensure sustainable fisheries beyond eu waters. the retention of the 6 to 12 mile limit will assist in development of conservation measures and do much to protect the coastal fishing on which many of our fragile communities depend. confirmation from the commissioner that the new regulation on these limits will definitively be in place by 1 january 2003 would be of great comfort. we also believe that the establishment of regional advisory panels will do much to encourage responsible conservation measures, although the role of such councils needs some clarification. we understand that the withdrawal of public aid for fleet modernisation and renewal will not be acceptable to everyone, but we believe that it is only logical in the circumstances. nevertheless, the exception for safety is again welcome provided it is indeed for safety alone. we are particularly glad that the monies will be converted into a substantial social package to ameliorate the effects of the measures on the livelihoods of those currently engaged in fishing. it has always been a matter of concern that decommissioning measures do nothing to assist the crews of fishing vessels. if we get things right, we shall sustain both fish and fishers to harvest them. if not, we may have neither and future generations may find it very hard to forgive us.
mr president, this long-awaited package contains many welcome aspects. the accent on conservation and sustainability must of course be central to the cfp. multi-species and multi-annual management is welcome. efforts to create a level playing field in enforcement are welcome. technical conservation measures and their development are welcome. of course, fleet capacity needs to be brought more in line with available resources. i take it that the commissioner can confirm today that recent efforts in certain areas will be taken into account in that regard. i welcome the 6 and 12 mile limit retention, but beyond 12 miles i have some very serious concerns about the wording of the documents in relation to access to waters and resources and in relation to relative stability. is the commission saying that equal access will bring equal access to fishing opportunities in our waters? is the document really saying that relative stability keys will be perennially open for review? does the commission envisage additional member states gaining quota in areas where they have none at the moment – for example, in the north sea? the wording of the document in that particular chapter points towards relative instability rather than the stability which was intended. there is at least a possibility that the otherwise good intentions of the conservation proposals in the document could well be undermined. so i am looking for major and clear assurances of intent in that area.
mr president, this is not reform, as the commission itself points out. council regulation no 3760/92 established the framework upon which the cfp rests. of course, at its core is equal access to community waters which was derogated until 1 january 2003. only at this point will the cfp fully come into force. so what we are actually seeing here is the final stage of implementation of the cfp. after 30 years of meddling by the commission and in-fighting by member states, what we now have is a world-class ecological disaster and the near destruction of many parts of the british fishing industry. this itself is graphic testimony to the abject failure of the measures thus far implemented. but instead of new measures to deal with it all, what we are now seeing is a complete contradiction. bound by treaty obligations to afford equal access, which effectively means allowing the spanish fleet into the rest of british waters, against that, we see: relative stability. relative stability is based on track record; equal access is based on fleet tonnages. they are in fact opposite things. they cannot exist side by side. that crucial point alone demonstrates that these proposals are a political fudge. not surprisingly, therefore, mr fischler's colleague, mrs de palacio, has expressed global reserve on every aspect of the proposed reform and i share that global reserve. nothing that the commissioner has offered addresses the fundamental flaw and that is that it is a common policy. the only fisheries policies that have been successful around the world are those that are managed exclusively by sovereign nation states. thus, the only real option is to abolish the cfp. politics and fishing just do not mix.
mr president, the commission's new-found awareness of its responsibility for long-term conservation of fish stocks is to be applauded and encouraged. however, due to the almost total failure of previous policies, i am of the opinion that control of fishing activities should be better returned to the elected governments of member states with the return of control over their former national territorial waters. these proposals are unfairly weighted against united kingdom fishermen with a reduction in tonnage of 29% compared to 20% for france, 12% for spain and 2% for greece. fish stocks are a truly natural resource and should be renewable for all time. with regard to land-based food chains, we have to sow and breed as well as harvest and process. with fish, we merely hunt them down. we must not allow ourselves to fish selfishly or to hunt them down to extinction. it would be an act of cynicism for member states to dilute these proposals further. we not only need friends of fishing; but more importantly, we need friends of fish. this is probably the last opportunity for european countries to show a clear determination to deal with these chances effectively. if these proposals fail to be effective, i for one shall campaign for the united kingdom's withdrawal from the cfp entirely.
mr president, i would like to welcome the commission's package of reforms affecting the common fisheries policy. i am also pleased to see that little has been changed from the original objectives of reform. the existing common fisheries policy has failed to achieve its objectives. it fails to provide an adequate living for many fishermen and, at the same time, it fails to conserve fish stocks for present and future generations. we have to make hard choices. in the new cfp, we must cut the existing eu fleet; however the eu should not make a blanket cut but take into account the different sizes of the eu national fleets. for example, the scottish fleet has already shrunk in recent years to a more sustainable size. we must see an end to the subsidising of boat-building and put this money into helping fishermen who are coming out of the industry to find new employment. we must see the retention of the 6 and 12-mile limits as proposed by the commission – most member states agree that these act as a safeguard for coastal regions especially dependent on fishing – with much closer involvement of the fishing industry via the new regional advisory councils in the development and operation of fisheries management measures. we must seriously examine the problem of discards and we need improved inspection and enforcement standards across the community and an equalising of these standards. finally, we need better agreement on fishing in developing countries' waters, based on sound science to prevent over-exploitation of stocks. i look forward to the next six months. the sooner we get a conclusion, the better. time is short, but if the will is there i am confident we can have a cfp fit for this century.
mr president, i welcome the fact that we have finally begun to discuss the proposals on the reform of the common fisheries policy. i do not like the route we took. however, there was not much we could do about that. we have to accept the present common fisheries policy has ended in failure. we all know that. we must come to the conclusion, that our responsibility, as mr stevenson has said, is to get down to the substance and work with the commission and the council to come forward with a policy that hopefully will be infinitely better than the previous one. i welcome the fact that we are going to give more responsibility to local fishermen closer to the areas in which they work. i want to see real responsibility, and not a minimal consultation because if that is what we end up with it will not work. yes, we all recognise there has to be a reduction in capacity and we must have a sustainable fishing industry and a fishing fleet at the end of all of this. we must develop a policy that will work. for years, the uk government has totally failed fishermen and the fishing industry. i want the commissioner to ensure that whatever is brought in is unified throughout the european union and is financed in a unified way so that no one member state can pour in more money than another to support their particular industry. we cannot deal with every point here today. we might like to do so, but we cannot. we all recognise that the livelihoods of everyone involved in these industries is at stake and i have no doubt that we will all work to try and resolve that. finally, commissioner, i would like to put the point to you which i put in committee last week. i asked you to outline the substance of the report that has changed since mr smith was dismissed from office. you agreed that you would inform the committee on fisheries. will you stand by that and tell us what substantial changes have been made to the report since mr smith was dismissed?
mr president, i rise to make a point of order before commissioner fischler replies to this debate. mr barón crespo said he had no faith in my neutrality as chairman of the committee on fisheries. i strive at all times as chairman of that committee for complete neutrality, but neutrality has to be built on a platform of fair play. i am sure that everyone in this house believes in equal treatment for all member states. if that is an alien concept to mr barón crespo, then i am sorry for him. i hope the house will support me on that.
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i have listened to this debate very carefully. i would now like to comment on some of the important points, particularly where it is clear that there are still some uncertainties. i would like to make a request in advance. i understand very well that polemics are the spice of a parliamentary debate. but i think that terms like "death sentence" and "execution", that kind of verbal radicalism, are not really worthy of this house. (applause from the centre) i therefore invite you to return to a factual debate, because the problems are big enough, we do not need to make them bigger artificially. i think we should really stick to what mrs langenhagen said: we are not going to war! we want to achieve a situation which is more hopeful for the future of our fish stocks and for the future of our fishing industry than what they have experienced in recent years. we have to work together on this. i think we should not play the old game, mr galeote, of saying that there is a game between north and south, in which you say that the north is currently 1-0 down. i don't see that. if anything, the game has just begun and we should play together and be aware that we should not let this traditional front formation, which has often led to problems in the past, be revived here. mr stevenson has put forward various figures. i beg your understanding . it is really better to simply let the figures speak for themselves and to use those which are also supported accordingly. on page 49 of the regulation on resource management, mr president, you can read the actual figures for vessels per member state. i would also like to ask for a clarification of what is meant by scientific. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the reform. that is precisely what our proposals contain. mr baron crespo asked why the common agricultural policy is not the same as the fisheries policy. i'm sorry he's not here anymore, but i'd like you to tell him the same thing. the basic principle for the future of both policies is sustainability in all three dimensions. we want to stick to that. it is also wrong to say that we no longer care about the safety of fishermen and the safety of boats. it is explicitly provided that investment in ship safety facilities should also be further promoted in the future. there are no changes here, but on the contrary we want to concentrate our support more on this. then there's the big issue of access to water. there seems to be some misunderstanding or perhaps misinterpretation here. firstly, there is still a provision in the treaties of accession for spain and portugal. that provision expires at the end of this year. this outlet guarantees that these two states no longer have to accept specific restrictions, no longer have to be discriminated against, but have access to the waters. but please distinguish: access to water is not the same as access to resources! the expiry of a transitional provision means that community law must be applied without discrimination. we shall do that, and nothing else, because we are obliged to do so! this would not have needed to be mentioned in the reform because it is self-evident. but we did mention it anyway to make this clear. another difficulty seems to be that the impression has been created that our new naval policy is a way of punishing those countries which have voluntarily done more than they were obliged to do. firstly, let us not forget that our fleet in europe is too large. anyone who denies this is not acknowledging reality. secondly, there are sanctions for those who have not complied with the requirements which are already in force and which are now the law. these are expressly provided for in the proposals. for example, they are given a reduction in fishing effort. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing effort allocated to individual member states is allocated to the fleet in a way that is more economically viable and does not result in any vessel being deprived of sufficient days at sea to fish profitably. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. i do not wish to comment further on the fact that there have been several calls for the renationalization of the fisheries policy. if you wanted to shoot yourself in the knee, you'd have to do that. but i don't think that's really going to get us anywhere. we need a common fisheries policy, common to all the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is true that a fairly significant amount of fishmeal is still produced, but not least to feed this fishmeal to the fish farms. this means that without this fishmeal, there is no aquaculture, to a large extent. we should not forget that either. secondly, industrial fishing is concentrated on fish species which are not used for human consumption. there is therefore no competition between industrial fishing and fishing for human consumption. of course, industrial fishing will be subject to the same restrictions and standards as any other fishery. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we've done 22 studies on regions like this. the results can be accessed online at any time. they've been there for a year. the question is that the impression is given that we are, so to speak, reforming the scrapping system. i ask you to leave the church in the village. the proposed measures are likely to reduce the fleet by 10%. 10% of the time! so it is not a good idea to pretend that there will be no ships at all in the future! however, there is a difference from the past, namely that we are implementing these measures in a socially responsible way, because we will accompany this necessary reduction of the fleet with corresponding social measures. so if you are going to make a complaint, you should be making it against existing policy, not against future policy! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that it is indeed necessary - and i have said this in the commission - to take account of this difference in the implementation of the policy. it is important that we also give the artisanal fisheries a future. if i am asked what has changed in the proposals now that director-general smidt has left, there are two ways in which this question must be corrected. first, there is no departure of mr smidt. he is still director-general of the dg fisheries. secondly, i can say with a certain pride that the substance of the proposals has not changed at all and has not been changed. mr galeote asked where the money for the reform would come from. as i said, part of the money is to come from the fact that we are rethinking whether our structural programmes for the fisheries sector are right as they are and are reprogramming. a second part of the money is to come from the flexibility instrument. we shall be putting forward a third part in the context of the planned mid-term review. if you look at the current level of structural fund outflows, which is over 80 billion euros, which is behind the planning data, then a discussion of 200 million euros will not mean much in this context. one thing stands out: if we ask ourselves whether we need reform - and this question has been answered by parliament on several occasions - if we ask ourselves whether we have stock problems, whether we cannot continue with the existing resources, if we ask ourselves whether we must reduce capacity, if we ask ourselves whether we have a social responsibility, then i believe that the commission's proposal gives a clear answer to these questions! (applause from the centre)
mr president, i appreciate that in a debate like this the commissioner has many, many questions to get to in the summing up, but my questions were specific, in particular in relation to relative stability, which was not mentioned in the summing up. the document "summary of chapter 4" says "relative stability should be maintained, however, the method of allocation of each stock should be decided by council in order to make the application more transparent". what does this mean? does it open the possibility that the allocation keys could be ... (the president cut off the speaker)
- mr. hudghton, this is not a procedural motion, it's a point of detail. we shall have plenty of time to debate this report before it is reviewed in parliament. the debate is closed.
- the next item is the report (a5-0144/2002) by mr konrad, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the draft commission regulation on the application of article 81 (3) of the treaty to categories of vertical agreements and concerted practices in the motor vehicle industry.
mr president, the british conservatives do not believe that the commission's proposal should be diluted, postponed or reviewed. we support the liberalisation proposed by the commission. we believe that in the uk consumers have paid too much for their cars for too long and this parliament should not postpone the cheaper car prices which will be the result of a more competitive market. parliament should remember that though we must be sensitive to the concerns of small businesses, every dealer who writes to us probably has 100 or 500 or 1000 customers, whose interests we must also consider in this difficult debate. i believe that a ban on location clauses is essential to delivering a competitive framework in the eu car market. without the ban on location clauses, we would see almost no change from the present position, because without that ban consumers would still have to travel to another country to use a non-domestic dealer. we believe that we will not see price reductions in the eu unless location clauses go and dealers are free to set up in different eu member states. if we want to protect dealers, we should be protecting them from anti-competitive practices by car-makers and unlawful and unjustified termination of their franchises by car-makers. we should not be protecting dealers from the market and from ordinary competitive pressures because that is to deny consumers the cheap car prices which they deserve, and which this parliament should be prepared to deliver to them.
mr president, as the shadow rapporteur on the legal affairs committee working with my colleague mrs berger, i would like to thank our colleagues on the economic and monetary affairs committee for accepting so many amendments from our committee. i want to focus on those, particularly by talking about some of the complexities of this regulation and making it work in practice. but, first of all, i want to join in the congratulations to professor monti on having the courage to move ahead with such a bold and a wide-ranging reform. i remember sharing a platform with him at a conference back in may 2000 when he set out his concerns very clearly. he has worked through that consistently. i am lending my support even though i am one of the relatively few people who have not been lobbied by the commissioner. i know he has been very active in lobbying round parliament for his proposal. i want to declare an interest because i have, in my former years, been a director of sales for a major car company. i have managed distribution all over the world. i am pleased that you see, commissioner, that independent competing dealers will continue to be the foundation of providing good quality sales and service for consumers. in that connection i encourage colleagues to support the amendments that my colleague mrs villiers has proposed to reinforce that independence. it is crucial. i want to say to you, commissioner, that these regulations are exceptionally complex. you have given dealers a huge range of new weapons. they need to be encouraged to use those quickly and you will need to produce clear and unambiguous guidelines, on both sales and service. we must not underestimate the service you have done for consumers by opening up competition in after-sales and spare parts. that will in fact mean more to most consumers on an annual basis. they only buy cars relatively infrequently. this across-the-board approach will be good for consumers and i encourage you to make sure that those independent dealers really have the business security they need to invest and take advantage of your proposals.
commissioner, i would like to say that it takes real courage to tackle the substantial vested interest in the way that you have. particularly when that interest is one that can plead consequences right across europe in terms of our economic viability. please do not let europe's consumers down with undue delay in view of what you may have heard today. the principle of unripe time is always there to slow things down. new entrants to a multi-choice free-for-all will always be demonised as too rich or too unscrupulous. the fact of the matter is that we have never been able to bring about greater competition in any area, and i include the airlines, without some rich people and some people varied in their approach coming into a market which is being opened up. the small dealer is being invoked as a victim here, but he has much to gain from a reform of franchising, as mrs villiers has said. the choice we expect from any other sophisticated personal equipment, the competition we look for in the maintenance of our houses, our computers and, yes indeed, our second-hand cars, is condemned here. it should not be. this is a widening of choice. commissioner, you should listen to what is said in this debate, but you probably have more support here than the debate itself will disclose. stick to it!
mr president, congratulations to the commissioner for a very bold and courageous proposal. indeed, you should rest assured that many in this house support you in this move even if some would perhaps suggest quite the opposite. car manufacturers will not change their behaviour. they are doing too well to want to do that and we have waited the best part of decade for them to do so since the last review. will we have to wait another decade for them to come back to this house to say the same things time and time again? and, in the meantime, consumers across the european union will have to pay, as they have always done, and as they will continue to do unless we tackle the issue of the cartel. it is very clear from your proposals, commissioner, that you want to do just that and you have the support of the labour delegation in this group and other delegations across this room. i hope that the support which you have received here will give you the courage to continue in this bold move and that we will finally see some reduction in the activity of this cartel and some improvement for the consumer across the european union.
rapporteur. – mr president, this is a third and, i believe also slightly unnecessary, proposal that has come from the kingdom of spain. it seeks to institutionalise the provision of protection for public figures. the protection of public figures is, by definition, something which should be arranged between the member states, or other states, and in the case of visitors, between the visiting state and the host state. i found it quite odd that there also it was based only on article 29 of the treaty of the european union when it seems to me that both articles 30(1) and 34(2)(c) needed to be added. however, there is the germ of a good idea here. so i have taken the proposal and amended it in such a way as to facilitate cooperation between national intelligence, police and security services without setting up a bureaucratic institution and with no further cost. one of the problems that i had with the proposal initially, was that it seemed to want to codify or create a tariff of protection. therefore, someone like yourself, mr president, of supreme importance in the affairs of the european union, would no doubt have been provided with two armoured cars filled to the gunnels with armed policemen with machine-guns, whereas a mere humble back-bencher like myself would be lucky to see one policeman walk past his house every other day. this struck me as being a slightly odd idea because, if nothing else, it would provide an absolutely perfect guide to a would-be assassin, as to what he was likely to come up against. so i removed all that. however, there is, as i still say, the essential point and what i have added to it is that there should be cooperation and some kind of harmonisation, not only of the protection that is afforded, but the response mechanism in the event of such a tragedy, or an attempt being made. there are a number of institutions ranging from the sas in britain through the german border guards, the excellent military police in spain and italy and other countries, who, since the tragic events of the munich olympics, have acquired a great expertise in the response. it seemed to me madness to leave the response element of this problem out of the question. on the issue of shared information, i think that the information should be shared on a need-to-know basis and, above all, should be kept away from politicians, bureaucrats and even the people who are being protected themselves, because operational security in this area must be paramount. nor should there be any extra levels of decision-making that could interfere with operational effectiveness. knowing how long it sometimes takes for all the institutions of the union to arrive at a decision, the thought of introducing another tier between the attempt on your life, mr president, and the response by the policeman, and it would have to pass through several committees, i hope sends a shiver down your back. finally, the other important thing that i have added is that any sharing of information must be subject to the principles of the charter of fundamental rights. this is an area in which information would be shared on known threats, known possible suspects but, nevertheless, we have to make absolutely certain that fundamental rights are maintained. that said, i hope that the house will be sufficiently impressed to know that my amendments were the only ones that went before the committee. they were passed unanimously without any votes against, which i understand may be a rare if not unique event.
mr president, the ever-increasing threat from terrorist organisations, and the greater concentration of terror in the murdering of public figures, with the recent hideous murder of one of the netherlands' leading politicians, make this matter one of vital importance today to parliament. all security agencies in the eu countries, whether public or private, must fully cooperate one with the other in every way possible. the bringing together of the data in their intelligence banks and policy strategy is of imperative value to them in their fight against terrorism. those eu countries who have faced the might of terrorist destruction and who have succeeded, and are succeeding, against the terrorists should be encouraged to take a lead and help others who might be faced with a similar situation. i believe that it is not the incorporation of the police forces or security agencies of the eu which will solve this problem, but the fullest cooperation between all these agencies now and urgently.
mr president, my group deplores the way this matter has been handled in the last few weeks. both the vote in the citizens' rights committee and the rapporteurs have been pushed aside and there has been a cosy stitch-up between the presidency and the leadership of the two big groups. my group will uphold the committee agreement by voting for an opt-out system on directories to be possible. we will seek to take out the bureaucratic limitation that direct marketing e-mails can only be for products similar to those previously bought. but our main concern is the attempt by the council and the big groups to confer broad powers to require telecommunications companies and internet service providers to keep data which map people's daily lives and contacts, that is traffic, billing, location data and so on for possible access by law enforcement agencies. we do not disregard the case for some data retention for security practices, but we oppose its insertion in this directive because the huge implications both for industry and civil liberties are not adequately addressed in this context. it is dangerous and premature, and surely of doubtful legality as mr cappato said, to endorse a blanket eu regime of data retention as an add-on to a telecommunications single market package. any imposition of these powers should be debated at national parliament level and then addressed in the context of eu cooperation on policing and crime-fighting, including guarantees for citizens' rights. this measure today, being an internal market directive, is part of the package designed to open up the eu market to competition and enable telecoms and isps to operate on a level playing field. that is why the original commission proposal did not contain any reference at all to data retention, which was added by the council. i would be interested to hear the commissioner's response on that. we need a proper and extensive public debate. slipping through these huge powers in the slipstream of a liberalisation measure is quite inappropriate.
mr president, i want to deal with two issues; one is data retention and the other is opt-in, opt-out. first of all, opt-in, opt-out. i have to say, it is absolutely appalling, in any arena of politics, to set expectations which cannot be met. the whole idea of opt-in has been put forward as the solution to end spam. let me put this on the record. the commission's proposals on opt-in will not stop one iota of spam whatsoever. spammers do not abide by laws or regulations. they operate offshore and if we want to drive smes, the so-called engine of the new economy, out of the eu, then this is the way to do it. on the issue of data retention, groucho marx has been referred to tonight. actually, there were three brothers and the contributions i have heard tonight lead me to believe that the three brothers groucho, chico and harpo are present. the whole deletion of this article on data retention which is now being called for was never, ever called for in committee. what is this idea that it is a stitch-up, that groups come together to reach a compromise that ill serves the civil liberties of ordinary men and women? civil liberties, let us remind ourselves, need protecting from the international terrorists who operate cross-border terrorism, drug-trafficking, transnational crime, the trafficking of women and children. these are the civil liberties that we seek to protect with these proper, balanced data retention rules that are in the proposals before parliament. i hope parliament does the sensible thing, which is to vote in favour of the data retention proposals. we must respect the civil liberties of our citizens, and we do, but equally, we must not allow those who operate across our borders to abuse civil liberties to promote their crimes. i could say a lot more, but thankfully my time is up.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on citizens' freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs. – mr president, it is perhaps a pity we do not seem to have the same sense of urgency over this report, giving a right of citizens to access to information, as we have over telecoms liberalisation, but i shall pass over that. it is very important to emphasise that this directive does not grant a concession. it lays down practical arrangements for the exercise of a right which belongs to the citizens. so amendments, such as nos 1, 5 and 10 which stress the existence of this right, are very important. another aspect of the committee's second reading report which should be stressed is the need to make sure that the dissemination of environmental information keeps up with modern means of communication technology. that is an important aspect that we would like to persuade the council to take on board. the stress that is put on improving the quality of the information made available so that it is comprehensible, accurate and comparable is also very valuable. there is no point in having access to information if it is too complex or too opaque to be comprehensible to the layman – it renders such access meaningless. we also very much welcome the fact that the rapporteur seeks to ensure that any restriction on the right of information should only be allowed in specific, clearly-defined and exceptional cases. also that there should be a 'harm' test, so that the harm must outweigh the benefits of disclosure if disclosure is to be denied. all these are very important. i welcome mrs korhola's acceptance of amendment no 48 and, although she does not think it is perfect, i am very glad she can accept it.
mr president, i want to thank the rapporteur for the way in which he has approached this complex issue and his willingness to entertain a wide range of reservations across the committee and where possible to approach these efficaciously; and also my colleague, mrs van brempt, for her work on this. i have only time to deal with one specific area, and it does not in any sense detract from my belief that the effective regulation of dangerous pesticides must be a priority task of this parliament, and, indeed, this commission. my reservations lie in the section addressed by paragraph 13 of mr lannoye's report, where we are calling on the commission to notify us by the end of this year of the measures taken to ensure that useful substances which have low toxicity levels, and appear on priority lists 3 and 4, which have not been notified because of a limited commercial interest, or of high evaluation costs, may be so evaluated with the help of an appropriate restricted data package. why am i so concerned about this? i am concerned because there is a danger that some products of high toxicity which have not yet been regulated or properly examined, are still remaining in the market, whilst others, which are of no conceivable danger and are very low on lists 3 and 4, are going to be taken out of the market because those who produce them, and they do indeed in some cases come into the category of essential uses, are likely to be unable to produce the complex dossier needed to go through all of the processes initially set out in what, as the rapporteur says, has been an extraordinarily slow process. i just want to give the committee one example of this: ad hominem arguments are always dangerous, but i have a producer in my own area who turned to a particular plant protection range of products because he was himself alarmed by the effect of dangerous pesticides as he had seen them. if i talk of things like agent orange, you will know exactly what i mean. truly harmful substances. he has produced a product, which i use myself, called armilatox which is the only effective way of treating plant diseases like honey fungus. there is no way he could pay the estimated cost for the assessment of that product which is in a low toxicity range. it would be two or three times his annual turnover. there has to be some way in which we could help people of this kind come up to the standard necessary, or at least present the relevant dossier over the period of time we now have. if we do not do that, we are flying in the face of all the statements in this house, not least by the rapporteur's party, that we should help small businesses. we should not just help the big battalions who can, of course, accept all of the high evaluation costs. if we do not do that in this very important area, we will have failed.
mr president, this has not been an easy report for the committee to handle but there are two points which i believe need to be addressed by the council when it is reaching its final decision. first, the concept of viability in the industry should be strengthened. productivity improvements should be demonstrated where financial aid is made available. the second point is that because of low world prices, developing reserves in existing coalmines is very often difficult to finance and this accelerates the closure programme. support for such developments should be included in the provisions. i would also like to associate myself with remarks made by mr markov.
mr president, the end of the treaty means that something must be put in place. otherwise, an abrupt end of support would cause a chaotic situation. however, it should not be a licence for endless subsidy. the uk experience shows that it is possible to have a competitive industry, but that the adjustment process can be tough and painful. deadlines are necessary to force action. i would prefer a shorter deadline, but i respect the compromise we reached in the committee to support the commission proposal. we must recognise the importance of coal to the eu energy supply and i want to emphasise the aspect of security of supply. we are, in europe, already heavily dependent on imports of coal, and therefore there is a case to maintain some domestic production. coal represents 16% of our final energy supply in europe. i believe that our subsidies, however, should be directed more at clean coal technology for greater efficiency and lower emissions. i welcome the recognition of the united kingdom coal industry's achievement in improving competitiveness and i would like to close with the thought of challenging the logic of subsidising production of coal at around eur 140 a tonne on the one hand, while on the other hand phasing out much more economically efficient nuclear production.
rapporteur. – mr president, could i begin by saying that the difficulties which face us in the consideration of this report represent some of the most important challenges to the completion of the internal market. ever since the publication of the tens progress report at the cardiff council meeting of 1998, there has been concern that some member states have not succeeded in bringing forward projects which are appropriate for the type of funding contained. therefore, as rapporteur, i have endeavoured to undertake a balanced approach to the revision of the tens guidelines across the transport modes which facilitate our collective goal of a common market. so that we can develop a network which best fits the needs of business and the consumer, i feel it is necessary to offer a breadth of choice that will encourage competition, both within a particular sector and across all modes. i am particularly happy to see the increased importance given to regional airports in this report, which will not only provide valuable flexibility in the air travel market, but also significantly reduce congestion around our principal capital airports, along with the concomitant problems which that causes to the economy and the environment. similarly, i am also pleased to see, in areas where such action is appropriate, there is a greater emphasis on short sea, intra-european and inland waterway shipping. however, it is necessary that in our efforts to promote a variety of transport modes, we do not lose sight of the different economic and social needs of member states. a one-size-fits-all approach will not work. different countries have different conditions to deal with demographically, geographically and economically and i must confess to being opposed to some parts of the report as passed in committee, which seem to favour unduly certain modes at the expense of others. if a particular form of transport proves to be the most effective option for their particular requirements, european citizens should not be deprived of their natural choice by actions which have little relevance to their specific circumstances. for example, in my own constituency of the west midlands in the united kingdom, which forms the core of my country's logistics, distribution and haulage network, we are fortunate enough to have two tens projects running through the region: the west coast mainline railway and the m6 motorway which links together large parts of the british motorway system. it seems to me, by way of example, to be ridiculous to have the direct competition of these two transport modes compromised when this offers genuine choice to the consumer. the concept of genuine multi-modality proposed by the commission should be encouraged, to include such projects as road and rail links to airports, but in a form which does not distort the market. also, i have concerns that rail transport alone will not be financially or economically feasible in some areas of the union. thus, i fear that too prescriptive legislation will needlessly discriminate against some member states. i feel that the plenary amendments which i have submitted amount to a restoration of fair competition and flexibility which will allow member states to use the available funding for the most appropriate form of transport to meet their particular circumstances. i believe that eu funding should be restricted to a series of technologically and economically feasible projects from across all modes of transport, which will represent a truly level playing field. sadly, one of the characteristics which does seem to be common in these projects is the tendency for them to drag on without recourse to reassessment if member states do not provide the wherewithal to implement them. the regional policy transport and tourism committee has already accepted an amendment to limit the period for any project to no more than 15 years and i would commend this to the house. i cannot emphasise enough that in order to secure the long-term viability of the transeuropean networks, it is imperative that we first ensure the sound management and financial probity of suitable projects. similarly, i have not been able to support amendments tabled to add further projects to annex 3 in the light of past experience which, in a sense, has resulted in an auction of promises. it is illogical to spread funding even more thinly when projects are already not keeping to the targets originally agreed. for this same reason, i am proud to say that i have been uncompromising in my position with regard to the financial scrutiny that i feel parliament has a duty to perform. for example, with regard to the galileo system, the definitive cost of which has only been approximated, i propose that a regular cost-benefit analysis be undertaken and that parliament be informed of progress of the project on a regular basis. to conclude, i reiterate my belief that a balanced approach to transport across the eu is what is needed, not one aimed at current fashion. this is a very long-term, highly costly programme and europe's peoples will not thank us if we go down the path of denying them the choice and freedom of transport that they rightly expect. i hope the house will feel able to support this report.
madam president, i welcome the fact that the committee backed amendments to strengthen the commitment to environmentally sustainable transport by insisting on strategic environmental impact assessments of tens projects. i hope that the house today supports that position. however, i am very concerned that the commissioner, backed by the rapporteur, a british conservative rapporteur, is adding at this stage six new tens priority projects. the total value of these projects is a massive eur 66.6 billion. none of these six new projects are in the uk. indeed, most member states have been left out. that is why some of us are insisting that either we all secure a fair share of the additional funding or, as an alternative, that no additional funding be granted today.
rapporteur. – madam president, the european parliament first called for action on corporate social responsibility in 1999. we welcome the commission's green paper and today we set out a series of concrete steps which will turn european debates into european action. let me highlight four steps in particular. first, rules for disclosure of basic information about the company's social and environmental impacts. although some companies now produce voluntary triple bottom line reports, too many do not. of those that do, the oecd tells us that two thirds ignore internationally recognised standards, avoid independent verification or disown responsibility down their supply chain. such rights of disclosure would build on the new economic regulations law in france, similar legislation here in belgium, and the occupational pension scheme regulation in the united kingdom. for business, it is about levelling the playing field, reducing cost, simplifying procedures and industry representatives from british telecoms, usf – even an old bête noire like chiquita – have all said this must come in time. we ask the commissioner to learn the lessons of her own excellent public consultation. nearly half of the respondents challenge the basic definition of csr as simply one beyond compliance. legislation and voluntary action are not mutually exclusive. the prospect of legislation spurs voluntary efforts which in turn establish norms which legislation entrenches for future years. we must and should encourage both. that is why the european parliament will today vote for mandatory social and environmental reporting by companies, for new corporate governance rules, including making board members individually responsible for the social and environmental performance of the firm, and we will reaffirm our call for a new legal base for jurisdiction over european companies operations world-wide. we want to see csr issues incorporated in the european social dialogue, but we support too the setting up of an eu multi-stakeholder csr forum. this will allow others with a legitimate interest in corporate performance to have a voice. the forum should not replace or duplicate existing initiatives which will drive forward the debate of the eu level, and should be a forum which will not be all mouth but which will have real teeth. csr really must be built into all eu policies and programmes. it is quite breathtaking that the european commission and the european investment bank commit billions of euros of european taxpayers' money each year to the private sector, through contracts, regional aid, investment promotion, yet we do not have simple contractual clauses to respect the basic labour and environmental standards nor clear monitoring and complaints procedures to enforce them. the dutch government has shown the way by linking access to export credits to compliance with voluntary standards. the eu must follow suit. we want to encourage voluntary action by companies, including the excellent business campaign led by csr europe, but we must balance our praise for good practice by the best companies with the recognition that we live in a world where there is also corporate irresponsibility. within europe, we have the devastation of mass closures on affected communities or the difficulties of accessing capital in the poorest communities where it is needed most. today the greatest public concern in europe surrounds the abuses by european multinationals in developing countries. it is about the hundreds of people murdered each year for taking part in legitimate trade-union activity; two-hundred and fifty million working children world-wide; export processing zones set up specifically to evade minimum standards or the clothing sweatshops where they are simply ignored; slave labour on west african cocoa plantations or building oil installations in burma; the victims of those killed in the civil wars in angola or sierra leone, fuelled by the trade in conflict diamonds or corrupt payments to exploit minerals extraction; 1.5 million babies dying each year because their mothers do not breast feed misled by the marketing practices for infant formula. european companies can knowingly or otherwise be part of these abuses and they can be part of ending them too. that is why the european parliament will today vote to make csr an active part of our trade agreements, development assistance, of our unparalleled network of delegations in third countries. the eu itself must make a serious contribution to the implementation of the oecd guidelines on multi-national enterprise and should act as a champion of new global standards in international institutions, standards which put investor responsibility on an equal footing to investor rights. these are the elements that will truly forge a european framework for corporate social responsibility.
madam president, i would like to compliment mr howitt on the very considerable work that he has done on this report. as he is aware, many of his colleagues have not been idle either and much of the work that we have done has been, as a result of the work of mr howitt, to try and unscramble or reshape his particular report. certainly, in committee we have worked well together across the groups and have produced compromise amendments that some of us can live with, some more easily than others. our basic position is that, yet again, we see being proposed today, the standard socialist solution to every problem: legislation. the irony is that on this particular occasion it is being offered as a solution to an area for which there is no problem in the first place. corporate social responsibility is something that is very much on the up, it is very strong within europe. europe is giving a lead on this and that is to be encouraged and supported. as a group, obviously we support the very concept of csr, but we do not welcome legislation which would stifle the very initiatives that we are trying to foster. this represents not just the view of governments, but also of businesses across the eu who have supplied input to the rapporteur. we have tabled and re-tabled some amendments. amendment no 1 is key and needs to pass if the group line will be to support the report. i hope that many of the other amendments which failed by one vote in committee, will also secure the support of the house today. we welcome the idea of some sort of stakeholder forum where companies can bounce ideas off each other and share best practice, but do not see this as a forum which will lead to the signing-up of agreements. finally, i particularly welcome the position taken by the commissioner and would thank her for the letter that she wrote to my colleague, mr pronk, last month which said that the commission has stated that the csr is essentially a concept whereby companies decide voluntarily to contribute to a better society and a cleaner environment. the commission maintains this opinion which has been confirmed during the consultation process on the green paper. i trust you will note that the final report invites the commission to bring forward legislation and i hope this is an invitation which you will very politely, but very firmly, refuse.
madam president, like others i congratulate the rapporteur for the very serious and positive work on this dossier and endorse everything that he said in his introductory statement this morning. my group welcomes the progress made by a number of companies to examine and audit their progress and to make that information public, whether it is information, for example, on their environmental impact, the effectiveness of their equal opportunities policy, or their involvement in the local community. there are companies that have recognised the benefits of greater transparency and positive action and for them, it has been a win-win situation. there is, however, a problem with the speed of take-up and we agree that social irresponsibility is still out there. that is why my group firmly believes that there is a role for foundation legislation, not total legislation – do not let us fall into the trap of believing this is the only way forward – but foundation legislation to provide a baseline for public reporting. this would help the public to know and to understand what information they should expect. the inclusion of supply-chain responsibility for us is crucial. a company that will not ensure in its total delivery the highest standards it often claims in its annual reports, is hypocritical and endangers the lives of workers and the public. we have seen this in my own country, for example, in the railway and nuclear industries. in looking at the wider responsibilities of companies based in the european union and the union itself, my group has tabled amendments requesting council to include in its remit for the johannesburg summit on sustainable development the proposal for the negotiation of a legally binding international framework on corporate accountability and liability. we hope that will be taken up.
mr president, just before you vote on this, i must bring it to parliament's attention. within the report, under recital h, and under recommendation 2, which are quite similar, it reads "calls on the council to amend the arrangements for the funding of europol by replacing member states' contributions with funding from the eu budget". the reality is the eu budget cannot absorb these funds. i would ask if mr deprez would take on an oral amendment which would actually read "replacing part of the member states' contributions".
madam president, the british labour group voted in favour of the amendments on data retention, amendments 46 and 47, precisely because we consider a very delicate balance has been struck in the detection of criminality and the protection of civil liberties, in particular the references to the fact that any measures must be proportionate and appropriate within a democratic society and, indeed, the references to articles 6(1) and (2) of the treaty of the european union and, accordingly, the rulings on the european court of human rights and the european convention.
in writing. - the eldr group voted in favour of deleting the part of amendment no 46 which aims to give member states data retention powers. this would allow governments to require telephone operators and internet service providers to retain traffic, billing and location data so that law enforcement can access it. we do not ignore the case where data retention is for security purposes, but we oppose its inclusion in this directive because the considerable implications for both industry and public freedoms are not adequately defined in this context. it is dangerous and premature to support a comprehensive european data retention regime as if it were a package deal in the single telecommunications market. any imposition of such powers should be debated at national parliamentary level before being addressed in the context of european police cooperation and the fight against crime, including guarantees for citizens' rights. the measure adopted today is an internal market directive and is part of the package to open up the european market to competition and to allow telecommunications companies and internet service providers to operate on an equal footing. the commission's original proposal does not contain any reference to data retention powers. this point was added by the council of ministers in its common position.
in writing. - from the commission's report, one might think that crossborder transport and the free movement of goods in europe could not exist without the eu. needless to say, governments are able to cooperate freely on transport issues - and on a whole host of other issues - without having to cede their powers to an unelected supranational authority. but what makes this project particularly odious is the following triumphant statement in the commission's report: 'the major crossborder projects of the last decade such as the channel tunnel, the brussels-paris high-speed railway and the bridge/tunnel between sweden and denmark show the citizens of the european union that european integration is progressing.' in other words, as with everything the commission touches - or more precisely, 'spoils' - the real agenda is political integration. it's not just obnoxious - it's dangerous. when will the commission and its fellow travellers realise that their continuing efforts to take virtually all activity in europe by force are producing the kind of boomerang effects personified by le pen and fortuyn? a lot less integration and a little more humility would do us all the world's best.
in writing. - i welcome the commission's proposals to reform the car market. i regret that some of the elements in mr konrad's report have watered down the commission's draft. for too long motorists in the uk and elsewhere in europe have been paying exorbitant prices for new vehicles and are dependent on restrictive practices for after-sales services and spare parts. i would urge mr monti to move the reforms to the next level.
madam president, i voted for the report with some reluctance because i feel there should be more urgency for reform than is actually contained within it. there are, in fact, some elements of protectionism and suggestions that would turn the cap simply into an income policy for farmers. these are not welcome. the real challenge faced by the farming industry is to become more competitive and closer to the consumer. i do not think indefinite subsidy is a solution.
madam president, i supported this report with these qualifications: national allocations of the rural development fund are not equitable and should be changed during the mid-term review. the regulations should be more flexible and less bureaucratic. measures to promote food safety, food quality and support for local products, while welcome, must not be allowed to distort competition. there is a wider rural world than farming and tourism. there are two districts in my region which have low unemployment, but low average incomes. our ambition for rural areas must be higher economic activity and higher incomes.
madam chairman, i voted against the howitt report and did so in line with the majority on the industry committee. we must strive for conditions which are wealth creators. our companies, both big and small, can operate at their best. corporate social responsibility is good for companies. being a good corporate citizen will redound to their advantage, will show up on the bottom line. therefore, it is in the corporate interest to be socially responsible, and any company which is not is heading for self-inflicted disaster. but a proper solution will differ – by size, by industry, by location, by financial condition, by many variable circumstances. that is why i find this report by mr howitt not just laughable in many of its absurd demands, but dangerous. not only will its red tape and bureaucracy kill off the dynamism of our companies and wreck our smes with unnecessary costs, it will also eliminate any likelihood of us in europe playing any part in realising the laudable aims of corporate social responsibility. the commission's approach is correct. mr howitt's interventionist approach is wholly misguided. we must urge the commission to stick to its well-considered way. this is why i voted against mr howitt's report.
mr president, as co-rapporteur on the report on access to documents, i should like to echo mrs maij-weggen's words. we have a modest beginning but we are sending the signal that transparency and accountability are the only ways in which to connect the citizen to the european project. i should like to compliment the staff who have worked tirelessly to do this. it is a reminder to this house that without the commitment of the staff and the services we would achieve nothing.
mr president, i think those of you who know me in this house, will know that i am not one to make a fuss. but this is a big public health issue and i want to speak firstly from personal experience. last autumn, following the first session back after the summer, i was very ill for some four weeks, culminating in a week in hospital. those who looked after me told me that as far as they were concerned it was legionella. i was in no doubt that i caught it when i came back to this parliament after the summer recess. a number of other colleagues have told me that they had had similar, though not such severe, symptoms. the problem is that we all go back to our own doctors in our various home towns and therefore any links between our symptoms and this house are perhaps lost. i feel that we have to take this extremely seriously. it is not just our health, but the health of our staff and the many visitors in this house that is at risk. i am told we will not have hot water. if we do not have hot water, how can food be prepared safely and hygienically on these premises? i thought very carefully about coming this week. i decided that of course i should come. we have a democratic duty to be here and perform our duties. but if anyone going away from this house this week, member, staff or visitor, has symptoms, then those that run this house will be guilty of having let us come here this week and it will be their responsibility.
mr president, what you have just said has given us a lot of comfort and security. however, it gave the impression that the guarantee was only for members of this house. for us the choice is to come or not; for the staff who work here the choice is somewhat different. i would hope that you could ensure that guarantee extends to everybody. i take your point on the different systems working. nevertheless, this is such a serious issue. it has been raised in my own group whether the trade unions – the workers' representatives here – were consulted and informed in this important process. (applause)
mr president, the house may be aware that the united states have announced this afternoon the arrest of a suspect for an alleged plot to detonate a radioactive dirty bomb on united states soil. the package of measures which were passed by this house before christmas and immediately after christmas on an effective european response to terrorism are still not on the statute book despite the pains that we went to deal with them quickly. on behalf of this house, i therefore ask you to call on the justice and home affairs ministers, who are meeting on thursday of this week, to make sure that that package goes through as quickly as possible. i believe we owe it to our friends in the united states to ensure that europe's safeguards against terrorism are as good as possible, since they are clearly still facing a very serious potential threat.
mr president, i want to raise a different matter – the subject of zimbabwe. i would like to first of all express my condolences to the much-afflicted people of zimbabwe at the awful bus crash that took place near masvingo in zimbabwe last night, when over 30 trainee teachers were killed. i would also like to express my concern at the rather hypocritical presence, or likely presence, of president mugabe in rome this week at the united nations world food summit. i say 'hypocritical' because, of course, there are millions of people in zimbabwe now who are suffering from food shortages and starvation, much of it as a result of the misguided land policies of president mugabe. but of course it is also of concern to us that we are supposed to have a travel ban on president mugabe and his associates. there are supposed to be sanctions against them and the fact that he can travel to conferences like this makes something of a mockery of those sanctions. last month he was in new york at the united nations world children's summit. a final point: we have heard nothing about the results of the eu troika that went to southern africa in the middle of last month. i specifically asked the members of the troika to take certain measures and to report back to us. could i ask, in the light of all these points that i have raised, for the council to make a full statement on the situation in zimbabwe and the action that it intends to take?
mr president, on a point of order, as we are again discussing legionella, my understanding of what you said earlier was that there was no guarantee that legionella was not present. that is an important distinction. i should like to request that each member of this parliament receive a copy of the expert report. could we also have details of what the law is in france regarding the occupation of buildings found to have legionella in their systems and, if possible, information on what would happen in other member states if a building was found to have legionella in it? we can then see, firstly, whether this building is being treated in the same way as other buildings would be in france and, secondly, how that compares to buildings in other member states?
mr president, on a point of order, the matter came before the committee on legal affairs and the internal market earlier this year. against my own advice the legal affairs committee held that further and clearer information was required and a letter was sent requesting such information, to which i understand no reply has yet been received. however, about a couple of weeks ago i raised this at the coordinators' meeting of the legal affairs committee, saying that i hoped that a further inquiry might be made in order to clarify this matter one way or the other, as we ought, as speedily as we reasonably can. mr president, a little while ago you very vigorously wrote to air france protesting at conditions in which people travel to this parliament. you received a very emollient reply from air france assuring you that no such untoward thing would occur ever again. i should like to report to members of the house, who i am sure will feel an agony of sympathy for me, that today, for the second successive occasion, on turning up at edinburgh airport in good time for my check-in for the air france flight from edinburgh to paris to catch the strasbourg plane, i was told the plane was overbooked and i should re-route myself via brussels in order to arrive here for 5 o'clock. this is a pretty poor show and i have written a letter drawing attention to this shabby state of affairs – which will, no doubt, not receive as emollient a reply as yours did. i am sorry because i had hoped to raise a point about the agenda, which we have now adopted. perhaps i will have a chance tomorrow morning.
mr president, as the first member so far to actually refer to the rules can i raise a point of order under rule 137(1) which relates to explanations of vote. i requested from the services an explanation of vote on mr cappato's proposal for a suspension of the session. i would like to know why you have not given it to me and given me the opportunity of explaining that while i agree with mr duhamel that the building is as safe as is reasonable, it is as stupid and expensive as always to meet here. that is why i voted in favour of suspending the session.
mr president, you said the trade unions have been consulted. i would like to know whether all workers have been consulted. after all, we are not going to lose our jobs as meps if we do not turn up but some of the workers might. can i also have assurances that the trade unions have not been pressurised? i know that pressure has been put on them in the past about this building, so i would like to seek those assurances on behalf of the trade unions and the other workers.
rapporteur. – mr president, thank you for your kind words of support which i trust apply to every proposal in the report. i have ten minutes speaking time, i intend to take five now and five at the end of the debate so that i can reply to some of the points taken, as i am entitled to do under the rules.
mr president, thank you, but i am not the first to do so. ms thorning-schmidt created the precedent not very long ago. it is with great pleasure that i am able at last to present these two reports, the general revision of the rules and a particular report which has been waiting even longer to be put on our agenda. i should like to comment mainly on the general amendment of the rules of procedure. there are several reasons that compel us to revise our rules and that are at the origin of this report. one is that we are facing enlargement and we will soon be a parliament of at least 732 members. we must streamline our procedures and focus more on priorities if we are to function effectively as the democratic voice of the peoples of europe. secondly, the nice treaty, although not yet ratified, implies a certain number of specific changes which, if we vote for them today, will come into force as the treaty of nice, or equivalent provisions, come into force. we are not prejudicing the result of any national decision-taking procedure with regard to ratification of that treaty. thirdly, there was the series of problems identified by the bureau of parliament in the report by mr provan, who is sitting just behind you ready to chair this debate, and a very appropriate chairman he will be. all this has been drawn together in the committee's report and it is a package of nearly 120 specific changes to our rules of procedure. over 80 of them are not controversial. there are, however, a few that are and i will focus my comments on just a few of those. firstly, there is a whole package of measures to try and streamline our procedures in plenary, to try to decongest plenary, especially at voting time, but also in general. that is the item that members single out as being in need of reform, but it is very difficult to agree on reforms meeting with the necessary support. we have put forward a number of suggestions that non-controversial items, i.e. items that get a majority of more than 90% in committee, should be assumed to be non-controversial and go through plenary with a single vote – no amendments and no debate – unless there is a specific request to have a debate or to invite amendments. the burden of proof would be that way round. secondly, for some own-initiative reports we should have the option of noting the report of the committee as it stands and forwarding it to the other institutions, without trying to redraft paragraph by paragraph in plenary in a drafting committee of over 600 members. thirdly, when he or she judges it useful, the president should be allowed to send reports which have attracted a very large number of amendments back to committee for the committee to act as a sort of filter and test which amendments have a measure of support and which do not. those that are supported by less than one tenth of the members in committee would not need to be put to the vote in plenary because it is clear that they have no chance of being adopted. they will remain on paper, they will have been circulated and put on record but they need not detain the whole house with voting on them. that, along with several other minor measures which for reasons of time i will not go into, should decongest our plenary. we also propose to scrap the topical and urgent procedure, not the subjects of course, these would be dealt with by other existing procedures or new procedures more appropriate to those subjects. we also suggest changing the way we have our debates. some members are strongly in favour of switching to a "catch-the-eye" system as mr provan proposed, some strongly against. we have come up with a compromise: we start each debate, as now, with speakers from each group, maybe one or two or even three rounds of speakers, but allowing ourselves for the possibility of finishing with a "catch-the-eye" debate. that would enliven our proceedings. the same people might speak again in response to what has been said and no doubt members who have stayed in the chamber throughout the debate will catch the eye of the president and be able to speak. that is a reasonable and workable compromise. it conforms to what the conference of presidents said, because it has the word "may". it could be tried out for a period and if it does not work we can abandon it. if it does work we can continue. i would urge those in the house who are hesitating to give it a try. why not try out something new? see if it works. give us the chance to enliven our debates. mr president, i see it says seven minutes, but if you remember you interrupted me for at least two minutes at the beginning. (laughter)i will close with a short remark on my other report. i will not go through all the items in my own report. the other report was drafted at a time when we were facing accusations that our rules discriminated against members who do not belong to a political group. our committee made an inventory of all the places in the rules where you could imagine that might be the case or where it clearly is the case. we came up with possible remedies to each of those cases. those will be put to the house. there are some that the house will judge are not necessary and we may have been over-zealous in our work. there are others the house will be able to approve. it is appropriate that the groups look at this. i know some have suddenly asked for more time. that is curious for a report that has been ready for a year and a half and has been envisaged for some time that it be taken in conjunction with this main report of mine, the general revision. i would regret it if it has to be referred back to committee. if necessary then fine, but it would be better to proceed and deal with this matter, recognising that further work on this is required at other levels besides the rules of procedure i will stop now to allow myself some time to reply to the debate at the end.
rapporteur. – mr president, i imagine that the vast majority of members of this house have not even noticed the inglewood report sitting so closely in the shadow of the two corbett reports as it does. i must begin by congratulating mr corbett on the very comprehensive work that he has carried out in this wide-ranging review of the rules. the inglewood report, like the second corbett report, was prepared around two years ago because of initial internal inconsistencies in the rules of this house, as then drafted, in respect of the justification of amendments. at that time it was thought it would be brought forward quite quickly, and then could be amended if necessary, as part of the more wide-ranging debate about the rules we are currently engaged in. it did not happen. indeed, it disappeared over the horizon more or less completely. i would just like to record my gratitude to the fisheries committee, which is not usually associated with these matters, for having, as far as i know, been the only other people involved in this parliament, other than myself, and possibly mr corbett, who had appreciated it had not gone forward. nevertheless, what was originally intended to be a precursor to the general revision of the rules is now seen as something running in parallel with them and, in fact, is substantively part of the overall package. in simple terms, it is proposed that the question of whether or not amendments should be justified individually, calls for a single answer regardless of the context in which they are tabled. secondly, it is suggested that a strict obligation to justify every amendment in this house does not really make sense. it is recognised that an individual justification can be helpful in the context of legislative procedures. finally, in the interests of clarity and legal certainty, and also to avoid certain technical problems, the individual justifications of amendments should remain the responsibility of their authors and, consequently, should not be put to the vote. i would like to commend my report to the house.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. – mr president, mr corbett's report is excellent and i am very glad that it has finally found its way here so we can vote on it. not only will it make our lives easier by shortening our voting times, more importantly, it will make what we do in this house more transparent, more comprehensible to the outside world, because votes would focus on the key issues without taking away the right of minorities to express views. focusing on the issue of urgencies and the changes proposed by mr corbett, i know some members are concerned at how human rights and topical and urgent items will be dealt with if the present procedure is abolished. what is proposed gives us a much better option. for human rights, the relevant committee – the committee on foreign affairs – would bring forward a resolution on human rights. that means that human rights would be dealt with in exactly the same way as any other important issue in this house, in committee, in a considered manner, rather than rushed through on a thursday afternoon in strasbourg when very few members are here. i hope that we in this house will support this very important proposal and work better on human rights. i have been an mep for four years and since i have been here there have been constant complaints that there are too many votes, we do not know what we are voting for, there are hundreds of amendments in plenary. if we want to change that, we have to vote on this report and vote for change. unless we do, there will be no change, we will be back to the status quo and the complaints will continue. please support the corbett report.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on citizen's freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs. – mr president, first of all i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent work that he has done, especially in watering down his initial proposals in order to achieve consensus, something that always creates momentum for reform in this house. that is exactly what we need, a momentum behind the reform so that we achieve it rather than just talking about it. i hope that the entire house will support the compromise amendments that he has agreed with various groups within the house. of course, the amendments the committee on citizens' freedoms placed before the committee responsible did not receive universal support. nonetheless we were dealing with the member states' possibility of making legislative proposals under article 67 of the ec treaty and the developments and gaps in that practice. we are similarly looking at the category of amendments that relate to responsibility of the committee in relation to the respect for fundamental rights in the eu. although, as i said, our opinion was not carried in its entirety, i nonetheless will support and will urge others to support, the rapporteur. let me add a note of caution, this revision does not refer to the interinstitutional agreement on confidential information and sensitive documents, known as the brok agreement, which is still under negotiation with the council. i must urge the house to think very carefully before accepting the so-called brok framework agreement, because it puts parliament at a great disadvantage compared to any of the other institutions. it actually gives ordinary members of the public a greater right of access to sensitive documents in that any request must be duly considered. under these proposals, parliament is in an imbalanced situation in that we have no right to initiate access to confidential documents. with those caveats and those warnings, i urge the house to totally support the rapporteur's proposals.
mr president, every parliament needs a richard corbett – a man whose knowledge of and commitment to the rules of procedure is beyond compare and, although my expertise is less than his, i fully share with mr corbett the belief that good rules make for sound democracy. the reform package that we have before us is not revolutionary, but it amounts to a sensible and incremental change which will contribute towards making this parliament far more mature, efficient and transparent. i trust that the conservatism that is sometimes displayed by representatives of the ppe and pse groups on this question will not, at this late stage, hinder the drive towards reform. that would be an incredibly poor signal to send out to the convention and would seriously weaken the standing of our parliamentary delegation. the liberal group puts great stress on trying to make plenary sessions livelier. that is why we propose an amendment to make the "catch-the-eye" procedure mandatory rather than voluntary, along with another amendment to ensure that it is practical to interrupt speakers without penalising their speaking time. we need more drama in this place, more critical exchanges and a better balance between the necessary privileges of the party groups and the rights of individual members to express themselves.
rapporteur. – mr president, i am grateful for the contributions, the compliments and the criticisms expressed so clearly. i will focus on the criticisms. some were expected and some were surprising. i was surprised at the vehemence of mrs frassoni's criticisms. she made the same speech she made when we started our work in committee a year and a half ago. she also accused me of not listening to her speech, so i want to make a point of refuting her argument, because she seemed to make the point that we have moved on in one year and a half. i am glad that the shadow rapporteur from her group was very constructive. indeed, many of the amendments i have tabled have been co-signed by her group and mine. firstly, let me refute some arguments that various speakers made. i am not trying to stifle debate or limit minorities. i am trying to expand the debate on the important subjects, to have more time on the really important and controversial matters. that, in turn, implies using simplified procedures for the less important and the less controversial matters. how do we define less controversial? we have said that where there is a majority of over 90% in committee, we can take that prima facie as not controversial. even then, we can go back to the usual procedures if only two groups or 32 members make such a request. it is a very low threshold; it is very easy to go back to a full normal procedure. but let the onus be that way around. let us assume that if it is simple and uncontroversial it can go through under a simplified procedure unless there is a request to the contrary, and then we will gain time for more debate, more views to be expressed on the important matters. similarly, i refute the argument that there is any danger to the language regime. every member will continue to be able to insist on his or her own language in all instances. i refute that we are scrapping the human rights issue. like mr posselt i agree that human rights are very important. i am not proposing to scrap the issue: i am proposing a different procedure for dealing with it, a procedure which will give more weight to the detailed work done in the committee and which should produce even more important results than at the moment. the same applies to other urgent matters. we are not scrapping them; we are proposing to deal with them under other procedures – either existing or new procedures. let me just clarify one or two other points. as regards "catch-the-eye", what is on the table is a compromise. "catch-the-eye" would only come at the end of debates. even then it is not obligatory. it says the president may have a round of catch-the-eye. that is a very reasonable compromise. if the people who have reservations about this are not even willing to try it out for a while at the end of debates, when the president so decides, then really there is not much willingness to compromise at all. i would urge those who are cautious about this to give it a try. there is no harm in trying it out. as regards olaf, the committee deliberately did not deal with this because the matter was sub judice. now it seems that after the court has ruled there is an appeal, so it will still be sub judice. but even if it were not, i would say that this would need thorough examination in committee rather than an amendment at the last minute in plenary. that is the reason why we have not come up with a proposal on olaf. as regards the commission president and the vote on the president of the commission and the commission as a whole, mr rothley has raised a valid point. our national traditions are very divergent on this but it is right that it comes before plenary, and in many groups there will be differences of opinion on this. mr rothley has persuaded me personally but i know that there are many others in the house who still need to be persuaded. as regards the budget point, we had different views. some said that for every item coming before this house there should be a detailed examination of the budgetary implications by the committee on budgets. others said that this is a constraint on our rights to table amendments in plenary and we should not go down that road at all. we have come up with a compromise stating that explanatory statements must, where there are expected financial implications, contain an analysis as to how this is compatible with the financial perspective. this compromise will not satisfy everybody, but, again, it is a workable compromise for us to move forward at the moment. finally, the question of gender language. mr president, you were quite right to point out that it only affects some languages. the language in which i drafted the report was not one in which there is gender discrimination and i would not have put it in. i would remind the house that four years ago, when adopting the report by mrs de palacio vallelersundi and myself, we adopted a decision that the rules should be revised by the services in all languages to ensure gender-neutral language. we do not need to come back to that issue; we need to ensure that what we decided as a parliament is now applied.
rapporteur. – mr president, i am greatly relieved as rapporteur in this case to finally have the opportunity of presenting this report before the house, whether it be rejected or accepted in the end. i have been a member of the house for just under three years and for nearly all that time i have been honoured to be one of the rapporteurs on parliamentary privilege and immunity for the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. one of the earliest tasks assigned to me was a bundle of requests from members from italy, or from their lawyers, concerning their concern that prosecutions or other legal actions were taking place in italy which violated their immunity. our rules of procedure which will i hope be amended in the light of the duff report make elaborate provision for the steps parliament should take in order to decide whether or not to waive immunity on receipt of a request from the proper authorities of the member state. the problem in the italian cases was that no request had been received other than from the members themselves and this gave rise to concern. if it were the case that privileges or immunities enjoyed by members of this house were being ignored by a member state that would be a serious matter. the point that i would make, and the duff report makes here, is that the privileges and immunities of this house exist not to expand the rights of members as citizens beyond those of other citizens. they exist solely to protect the dignity of this assembly as a european legislature and to protect the conditions of effective and free democratic debate in it. if it were case that members could show that their position as members of this house, as legislators on the european scene, was being prejudiced by conduct of a member state and there was no way to bring this before the house solely because no appropriate authority in a member state had sought to have the immunity waived, this would in itself be clearly an unsatisfactory state of affairs. the house possesses immunity under two different provisions. under article 9 of the protocol of 1965, members enjoy immunity from any form of enquiry, detention or legal proceedings in respect of opinions expressed or votes cast by them in the performance of their duties. there are other immunities which arise in other circumstances where the immunity a member enjoys is equivalent to that of a member of a member state parliament in their own member state and in other member states, an immunity from prosecution except with the agreement of parliament. after a great deal of study, it became clear that what was at issue in all the cases before us was only an issue concerning article 9 of the protocol. it was the issue of whether prosecutions taken against members for opinions they were expressing or had expressed violated the immunity they enjoy under article 9. our rules of procedure are silent on what we should do in that case. it seems to me that as a democratic legislative assembly, we must have some inherent power to draw it to the attention of member states if the conditions of free debate are being violated in this house. taking that view of the matter, the committee looked over the cases and in all respects save one accepted the recommendations which i was minded to put forward. looking at the cases as clearly and candidly as possible, it seems to me that mr speroni's was one where because matters were asked concerning an explanation of votes in the house he was clearly being called to account for an opinion expressed in the exercise of his functions. mr marra's case was one in which documents published by mr marra is his capacity as a member had, in a complex way, given rise to prosecutions or judicial allegations. these seem to be clear cases where article 9 was in issue. the committee thought, but i do not think, that mr dell'utri's case was the same. the reason why i differed from the committee is that in mr dell'utri's case, the statements made, whatever their truth and whatever their legal character, were made several years before mr dell'utri became a member of the house. i cannot see any sensible reading of a provision concerning opinions expressed or votes cast by us in the performance of our duties which relates to statements we make before we become members. you cannot equate a candidate for office with a holder of office. this goes for ourselves in our capacities as candidates, by the way. i therefore recommend to the house that we take the action suggested in my report and that we draw these cases to the attention of the italian authorities. my own parliamentary group has moved an amendment to take the name of mr dell'utri out of the report and i personally believe that it is the right course to take. i hope i have given an account to colleagues of why i think it is right course to take and that it is simply a matter of an objective and fair-minded reading of the protocol rather than an attempt to engage in a political judgement either way about the state of affairs in the italian republic.
rapporteur. – mr president, the issue of the reform of rule 6 was raised first by the controversy surrounding the application by the spanish courts to waive the immunity of two italian members of the european parliament. the competence of the spanish judges to file the application was challenged by spanish ministers. this put the european parliament into a quandary, not of its own making but one that was exacerbated by the weaknesses of its own rules and procedures. the proposals before us, passed after long deliberation by a large majority of the committee on constitutional affairs, have several ingredients. firstly, we include a short clear statement of what privileges and immunities are in the modern context. that is to say, not to say to protect meps inclined to a life of crime but primarily, as mr maccormick has said, to ensure the dignity of the legislature as a place of independent and pluralistic debate. secondly, we concede that there might be more than a single competent authority in some member states and we permit the committee on legal affairs and the internal market not only to give a reasoned opinion upon the matter of competence but also to prepare an indicative non-definitive list of such authorities. thirdly, the duties of the president of parliament are more clearly delineated from those of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. fourthly, the procedures of the committee and the criteria that it will use to formulate its opinions are set out in some detail for the benefit of members' courts and the public. fifthly, provision is made for the rare occasions when a member is obliged to assert a privilege or immunity before a court. i trust that all these provisions will equip parliament to cope with privilege cases at the federal level coordinate with, but not subordinate to, national parliamentary regimes. the reforms comprise a clarification, as well as a formalisation, of the privileges and immunities system, thereby meeting the requirements of the court of first instance in a separate related case. more radical reform will depend on whether the convention approaches an amendment of the 1965 protocol, the formulation of a members' statute and, finally, the matter of improving parliament's access to the court on the question of sanctions.
mr president, while i am going to be speaking about the duff report, i would like to congratulate both mr duff and professor maccormick for the very substantial amount of work they have put into this. we in the ppe-de group concur with mr duff's approach and the analysis contained in the report's explanatory statement. as is clear, not only from the debate earlier this evening, but also from the discussion in this house and in its committees over the last weeks and months, the whole issue of immunities is arcane, incoherent and muddled. in mr duff's explanatory statement, it is rightly stated, although perhaps in not quite these words, that meps are not merely national mps who happen to go abroad. in fact, meps are now something distinct from national mps who might happen to go abroad. they are people who are similar but, nevertheless, qualitatively different. that has significant implications for the whole question of immunities and it explains why we are in the present muddle. he is absolutely right in the report to point out, as he has done in his remarks this evening, that in order to tidy this up and create something sensible and understandable to europe's citizens, it is necessary for changes to come both from the forthcoming convention and from recommendations to the igc that might be accepted. in addition, provisions with regard to this ought to be contained in the forthcoming member's statute. if we do that, we may be able to introduce a degree of sense and coherence into our rules which is currently missing and will remain missing to our detriment if we do not manage to do it.
mr president, i would like to first congratulate both rapporteurs for their excellent work but my comments will be addressed to the duff report. mr duff took a difficult report on a subject that was triggered by a particular case of high controversy and which remains a particular case of high controversy and where my side of the house still differs substantially in its views from many of those on the other side of the house. nevertheless, in taking on that case, mr duff managed to produce consensus by focusing on the procedures and not on the particular case, and he did this with considerable skill. if i may return a compliment to him that he paid me earlier this evening, every parliament needs an andrew duff. my group can therefore support what he has done: the clarity with which he has drafted these new rules and the innovations therein – the innovation that opens the door for us, as a parliament, to assert the immunity of a member where no request has been forwarded to us to waive it, but proceedings have been started in a member state, or may be started, and the innovation that there may indeed be more than one national authority that is competent to request the waiver of immunity. all that, in my opinion, is to the good. my group will, therefore, be voting for his report but we are still debating paragraph 8 of amendment 2, where we do have a fear that, in essence, it contradicts the previous paragraphs in the report, and where it opens the door to parliament becoming involved in the substance of a case rather than in whether or not there should be a waiver of immunity. that wording is one on which we may request a split vote and vote against. but we are still open to dialogue with the rapporteur on this because we know what an excellent job he has done.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work on this. a number of the national action plans were criticised for not taking on board the particular position of women, as mrs swiebel has been pointing out, in terms of social exclusion. while i would agree with mr pronk that a lot of this is about money, it is also about other interlinking factors like a lack of real equality of opportunity. when you consider that at the moment in the uk there are women graduates likely to earn less than male graduates with similar degrees at the start of their careers, then there is a problem. the situation is even worse if you are male graduate of bangladeshi or pakistani background; your employment chances are as good as those of a young white man with no qualifications whatsoever. so there is a whole series of policies here which have to interlink to deal with issues about social inclusion. of course, we also know that women are more likely to have career breaks, to work part-time, to work on short-term contracts and they are still less likely to hold elected office. these factors help to explain why my group will not be supporting amendments which seek to remove the commitment to equal treatment for those in precarious or atypical employment. equally, we are not supporting the amendments which seek to delete mention of factors of economic and monetary policy, which we believe have a significant impact on social circumstances. my group sees the value of social security, not just to assist the sustainability of income, but as a measure of social inclusion as well. we also believe that the participation of those experiencing social exclusion and working to relieve it is essential in coming to conclusions and solutions. social inclusion involves having a voice in the decisions that affect you and we will therefore not be supporting amendment no 7 either.
mr president, the rapporteur spoke with great passion and great conviction about the issues involved in social exclusion. i would like to assure her – though hopefully she needs no such assurance – that such passion and such conviction is shared also on this side of the house, as i am sure it is right across the house. in that case it may be rather odd that her report had a rather rocky ride within the committee and that a large number of people voted against it. i suspect that might happen in plenary, certainly if a number of our amendments, which, as i understand, will be supported by the eldr group, fail to get through. it would be a shame if the report were to go down. there are just two issues i would like to highlight, both of which have already been addressed more eloquently by my colleagues mr pronk and mrs bastos. the first point is the importance of this issue being treated on a bottom-up basis rather than a top-down basis, that it is up to member states as close as possible to the problem to address the problem most successfully. the second issue is the importance of having full employment: promoting employment is the greatest way of addressing poverty and social exclusion. the first of the eight joint actions, the eight core challenges, referred to the point of promoting employment, though it was in recital v in the report. this needs to be stressed with great vigour. in particular i draw the attention of the house to amendment no 20, which talks about the importance of temporary work and agency work as a way of getting people into permanent full-time employment. i would also say to the commission that i strongly agree with the commissioner that it is important to lay the foundations for further development of the temporary work sector.
mr president, firstly i should like to thank mr stockmann, the rapporteur, for meeting with me and organising the seminar last december in brussels. it was clear then that all sides of industry, including airlines large and small, airports and others, fully supported the update of regulation 95/93, in other words the technical revision, but believed that changing the rules on market access at this stage were premature and the consequences had not been thought through. this proposal is both complex and contentious. it is obvious that there is a gulf between us on some of the key elements. it is the point that attempts to deal with these proposals, slot definition, market access issues, slot transferability and new entrants, etc., that should have been considered in a second phase. i will highlight some of the particular difficulties later. not only is the inclusion of these elements uncalled for in phase i, but some will also reduce the much-needed flexibility required in the system. the amendments initially submitted by myself and some of my colleagues were designed to maintain and enhance the flexibility in the system that all airlines currently have, which works to the advantage of passengers. to remove those rights, as proposed by the commission, would be severely detrimental to the system and cause it to break down. i and others have re-tabled three key amendments, which will be voted on tomorrow. these deal with the slot allocation process and the slot exchanges between carriers. i hope the house will support them. on a general point, it is worth reminding the commission that the definition and use of a slot cannot be decided in isolation by the european union. there are 168 slot-coordinated airports worldwide and many third country carriers operating into europe. any changes to definition and use would need to be agreed at international level in order not to cause chaos. there is no reference to that in the commission's proposal. initially i deliberately did not get into the argument of slot ownership, not least because it is highly contentious and will, i believe, encounter serious legal challenges. but, whatever the argument, i find it naive to say that the commission's view that slots belong to the people is bizarre. perhaps the commission believes that it should own them on behalf of the people. the fact is that the ownership of the slots should be determined by contracts between parties. that brings me to my final point. i believe that a slot is a commodity which should be traded if necessary. this is also the view of the aea, iata and fourteen member states in recognition of the future shortage of airport capacity across the eu. i also strongly disagree with the myth – which is perpetuated – that only the major airlines benefit. this is not the case. it has been proved by the fact that at heathrow ba's share of slots has declined since secondary trading began over ten years ago. the choice for consumers has drastically improved. we need a proposal that will produce a more transparent, more practical, more efficient and effective slot regulation, one that does not harm the legitimate interests of the aviation industry. unfortunately this is not it.
mr president, i come to this debate having been the chairman on the committee on deregulation of european air transport with the dti and the national consumer council in the early '90s appointed by mr norman tebbitt. we found the regulation of open skies a very difficult issue. i am also a former director of the second largest airline in britain. i am also concerned to tell you that i left london at one o'clock this afternoon and i arrived here at nine o'clock this evening. that is as a consequence of a complete monopoly on this route to and from london. that is not the reason why i am standing up although i am taking action about what happens to me and my other colleagues from the english contingent regularly when we fly from london to strasbourg. deregulation is important, competition is important and in mr stockmann's report ably shadowed by my colleague, ms foster, we have struck a balance of some kind. it is also important to understand that although we want to open things up quickly and deregulate quickly and introduce competition the aviation industry also requires heavy investment. therefore it is not just like starting a taxi firm to start an airline. i speak as someone who has started two airlines. therefore we have to be careful that we do not destabilise the european aviation industry like the reforms in the united states where the entire american aviation industry went into a tailspin. we must be careful that we do not destabilise it by moving too quickly without carrying industry with us. it requires heavy financial and capital investment to be able to do this and i would like to ask the commissioner to be careful when she implements some of these proposals.
mr president, i would also like to support the rapporteur, in particular his recommendation to the house that we endorse the common position on the establishment of the maritime safety agency, albeit with the important provisos so clearly stated. i would like to thank the rapporteur, on behalf of the socialist group, for the way in which he has skilfully piloted this part of the erika package through parliament, keeping all sides together. the fact that we have a better product at the end of the process than we did at the beginning is a tribute to his skill in particular. this is the final part of the erika package so we also ought to thank the commissioner, who has been working relentlessly to ensure that disasters like the erika and so many others in eu waters in recent years do not occur again. we did have many new laws in the 80s and 90s, but they were not fully implemented or complied with. i hope that this new eu initiative, the maritime safety agency, will coordinate, monitor and enforce maritime law. i hope it will come up with fresh proposals where necessary, but in an open and transparent way. we all hope that it will work with us in the european parliament to make our seas safer and protect our coastal environment. for too long in europe, the laws of the sea were more appropriate to the 19th than the 21st century. i hope that by agreeing to endorse the commissioner's recommendation and the common position we can help modernise eu maritime safety and have eu safety laws that we can all be proud of, but of course the proof will be when we no longer have terrible maritime disasters. you can never have 100% safety, but this proposal will do a lot to make our seas safer, save lives and protect our coastal environment.
mr president, i hope that the house will not accept this request for urgency. i was rapporteur for the legal basis issue when this report originally came before the committee and this house. at that time it was proposed to create a common market organisation for ethyl alcohol alone. in committee that was amended to cover synthetic as well as agriculturally originating ethyl alcohol. the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, after studying it carefully, came to the view and reported back that there was no satisfactory legal basis that could be devised for that proposal. on that account the committee on agriculture and rural development proposed to this house, and the proposal was accepted, that the project be withdrawn for reconsideration by the commission. instead there was very quick reconsideration, and a substantial change. the legal affairs committee, having had a look at it last week, concluded that the same objection concerning the legal basis applies because there is still an attempt, under article 37, to bring together agricultural and synthetic ethyl alcohol. this is unsatisfactory. where a serious question has been raised about the legal basis, the committee responsible, upon considering a new solution to the problem, should surely once again ask for the legal basis issue to be properly looked at, not rush it through under urgent procedure.
mr president, i support both the line of the proposals which have come from our colleague mrs roth-behrendt and the objective which many people in parliament have been trying to achieve for the past ten years. no other issue has taken parliament so long to deal with as that of animal testing in the matter of cosmetic products. so i think the message that should go back to the member states is that this parliament believes that, until we get serious, the industry will not get truly serious. i accept that there are a large number of areas where there is cause for concern in terms of medical research and extremely difficult and serious tests for which no valid alternatives have yet been produced. but i remain convinced that, unless we are able to send a clear signal by reasserting the position we took at first reading, there will not be that incentive that comes from the clear knowledge that these sanctions are there and will be implemented. the test ban and the marketing ban have not been complied with. we cannot afford further delays. i would say to everyone, including the member states who tried very hard to bring us a common position that we could accept, we still have to try harder. the answer is to send a signal at second reading, so that the rapporteur and our colleagues of all parties have the strongest possible negotiating position when we come to one of the most serious processes of conciliation we have ever had in this parliament.
mr president, animal testing is carried out on a huge scale across the european union and the world to ensure that products like chemicals and new medicines and pharmaceuticals are safe for humans to use. the public has long made clear that it wants an end to animal testing for no better purpose than to ensure the development of yet more vanity products to fill our bathroom shelves, such as all the deodorants, soaps, and hair shampoos to be found on supermarket shelves. yet this debate has dragged on year after year with it becoming increasingly difficult for the public's wish to be turned into practice. now we have a classic conflict between the parliament, which has made it clear that it wants an end to animal testing, and the council, which has done its best to ensure that no marketing ban is introduced. we have made it quite clear that an animal testing ban within the european union alone is insufficient. it simply means that animals will be tested upon in countries outside the european union where no proper supervision can be undertaken. a marketing ban has to be introduced, pressure has to be put on industry to ensure that new alternatives are developed. the proposals being put forward by the epp have been particularly helpful. my group will be supporting mrs roth-behrendt's call for a marketing ban to be introduced at the earliest moment. however it is likely that it will be the epp amendment which goes through today. that leaves open the option for us all of an ambitious and yet realistic settlement, an agreement between the parliament and the council which can end this matter once and for all, putting pressure on the industry but not creating insoluble problems. i hope that today in the vote later in this plenary we can once and for all put an end to this issue and put an end to unnecessary animal suffering.
mr president, this is a debate which is bedevilled with hypocrisy. we see products on sale claiming to be free from animal testing when the manufacturers know perfectly well that the products may not have been tested on animals, but that the ingredients were. we see countries like my own, claiming to have banned animal testing, when all they have done is export the problem to countries where animals are even less respected. what we need and what this report brings us towards is a ban on the marketing of products tested on animals. of course, what we need is to ensure that safety is our key criterion. human health must not be put at risk by what we are doing. we must bear in mind the range of products that we are talking about – it is not just the cosmetics that we put on our faces; it is also the toothpastes, the sunscreens, the baby products, the lens cleansers and so on. our aim must be a realistic timetable to phase out products which have been tested on animals by setting a deadline for each of those tests. we have to reconcile the interests of human health and those of animal welfare, and it can be done. our amendments would ban with immediate effect those tests for which alternatives have been validated. it would set a deadline for each of the others, according to the stage reached in the process of validating an alternative, up to a maximum of five years. it would acknowledge that for the three tests for which there are as yet no alternatives there would be a maximum of ten years in which to find alternatives, after which those tests would stop too. we are tired of waiting on this issue. we have waited five years; we have waited 1,825 days since this measure should have been brought in. in that time, we have seen 190,000 animals suffer and be destroyed. we want to bring that to an end. we need safe cosmetic products. we need human health to be ensured and we need animal testing to be stopped. it is time to bring this issue to a conclusion.
mr president, i have been most surprised by the arguments from the council and the commission suggesting that a marketing ban would be, as they say, "not wto-secure", yet the wto rules in this area are distinctly unclear. it is just as likely that a marketing ban will prove to be "wto-secure" as it will "wto-insecure". the point is this: the arguments about wto rules are purely hypothetical. it is not entirely appropriate in my view to move from the arguments of substance for and against a marketing ban to a much more convoluted and esoteric debate about wto law. a more honest approach – the approach advocated by this parliament – is to adopt a marketing ban as soon as possible, and then deal with the wto aspects separately in the unlikely event that our laws are successfully challenged in the wto. that would be a better approach, both right in principle and right in practice.
mr president, i agree with all the speakers so far. it is unacceptable that when we are making such enormous scientific advances we still accept the infliction of pain on small animals in order to find out whether a new face cream is safe. i would like to express my strong support for the report. the rapporteur has struck the right compromise: the ban would not be immediate but could come into force in five years, and that means that, in effect, we have given the companies concerned at least 15 years' notice since we first started discussing this about ten years ago. i also support the idea that we should demonstrate our own responsibility – a concept which is foreign to the greens – by introducing a marketing ban as tests are developed where at present there are no alternatives available, even though we then have to set a deadline for these tests, perhaps ten years ahead. parliament's report will give the search for alternatives a new urgency. i have two questions to the commission and i hope that when mr liikanen answers he will address himself specifically to my points on amendments nos 21 and 28. mr nisticò and mr nobilia raised this earlier on. i am very concerned that, on the labelling of fragrances, aromas and essential oils, amendments nos 21 and 28 involve the introduction of unnecessary requirements which may have a very unfortunate effect on the composition of products, their continued availability and indeed the viability of some of the smaller firms that make them. the rapporteur proposes a very comprehensive system of labelling when perfumes and aromas are present in products, even in tiny amounts. in fact, although this is designed to protect the few consumers who have allergies to certain fragrances, the proposal is unlikely to provide a significant public health benefit. there may be no safe fragrance for some allergic individuals. the best they can do, as they well know, is to steer clear of products with fragrances in them altogether. the rapporteur is reacting to representations by the european consumer bureau, which says it is putting the case for allergy sufferers and clearly sees the issue as part of its war on chemicals. i have to say that i have received no representations from allergy sufferers on this point. the european flavour and fragrance association points out that the amendments will saddle consumers with products carrying references to up to 50 ingredients in 11 languages. this is stupid and unnecessary. furthermore, there is a danger that some essential oils would be removed from formulations, thus damaging the economic interests of some countries, including some very poor countries. these amendments are a bad and unnecessary deal for consumers and the industry. i hope that the rapporteur will consider withdrawing them and that the commission and the council will reject them.
mr president, i am sorry that my giving way to mrs oomen-ruijten seems to have caused her some anguish but i do not think she is any need of any blood products. this is a very welcome report and i congratulate our rapporteur. the safety of blood, as we all know, is paramount. some of our member states have had horror stories to remind them of that. but the supply of blood is also paramount for those whose lives depend on it. our preference is for unremunerated donation – that is the british practice and that is what we want to see – but, in practice, europe imports nearly 50% of its plasma and plasma products. i am not talking about the standard blood transfusion service that comes around to your church hall and you pop in for half an hour, have a cup of tea, and go back to work. i am talking about plasma donation, where you have to travel some distance to fixed machinery and it takes half a day. we have to import some of those products and a lot of them come from the united states, where many of the products are remunerated. research shows that remunerated blood is perfectly safe in itself. the key, of course, is the screening of blood products wherever they come from. the hyper-immune plasma products are nearly all imported into the european union and 2,166,367 people in the european union depend on them: some 400 thousand in britain, 400 thousand in france, 100 thousand in the netherlands, 40 thousand in finland and so on. these are people with haemophilia, primary immune deficiency, albumen tetanus needs, acquired deficiencies, auto-immune diseases and rhesus negative pregnant women. without supplies, their health and their lives can be at risk. of course we must encourage unremunerated donation. that is our custom and practice but in a world of bse and cjd, we cannot be purists. otherwise we are putting the lives of our fellow citizens at risk.
mr president, blood safety is an important issue for citizens across the european union. there have been far too many scare stories and accidents across the eu involving blood and blood components. this directive setting standards of quality and safety of collection is absolutely vital. with eu citizens travelling more and more and visiting other eu member states, we must ensure that when any unfortunate accident happens, whether on holiday or at work, the people are safe in the knowledge about the quality and safety of the transfusion that is going into their bodies. quality and safety are the watchwords, that is why in principle i support voluntary donation. this has been the topic, as we have heard, of a very heated debate and i feel that the rapporteur has given a strong sense of the feeling that voluntary donations are the preferred option in the eu. however, in the united kingdom there is a special case to be made. due to the impact of cjd, known as mad cow disease, we have to import our plasma products from outside the member state. most of these products come from the united states of america as there are not enough sources in the other member states and, sadly, the products have to come from paid sources. this is a difficult issue but one where the united kingdom has a particular problem. the united kingdom government has been left with no alternative than to take plasma products from paid sources to avoid putting united kingdom citizens' lives at risk. in conclusion, i welcome this directive and its objectives, i welcome the principle of voluntary donation and i look forward to seeing eu citizens benefiting from the quality and safety of blood and blood components.
mr president, i wish to congratulate the rapporteur on an excellent example of where a substantial and sensible proposal from the commission has been further improved in our committee. in my remarks, i want to follow mr schnellhardt. i believe that it was right for our committee to go further than the commission, after the abolition of the 25% rule, by also taking an axe to some of the exceptions and exemptions which had been suggested by the commission. i wish to say something about the many people who correspond with us about allergies. for anyone suffering from an allergy, it is no good saying that it is only an insignificant percentage of people who have it. if you have an allergy, it is 100% for you and we need to be certain that the labelling concerned gives due warning. there is one area where we are not for the first time facing sustained opposition. mr schnellhardt just mentioned alcoholic products. amendment no 1 which i moved in the committee and which was carried, would indeed make certain that there could be a single committee responsible for the labelling of products for alcoholic beverages. i believe that is important and something which has been strenuously resisted over the years by the wine lobby. we are not saying that the specialist committees should not be involved in this, nor that there should not be a dialogue. sooner or later, we have to tackle, within this general issue of allergies and labelling, the issue of a special interest which has always stood in the way of accurate labelling of some products and of applying the same provisions to all products. i do not believe that we can go on with that and my personal view is that now is the time. i would recommend – although there is a free vote in my group – that we vote in favour of amendment no 1 and that we start to label wine in the same way as we label other products.
mr president, just very quickly, can you confirm that the french football team has contracted legionella? (laughter)
mr president, in common with the majority of european union citizens, i believe that the use of live animals in cosmetic testing is an unnecessary and unacceptable practice and must be banned. over 8,000 ingredients have already been cleared for use in cosmetics. how many more new products do we need? what is going to provide the incentive for commercial companies to develop alternative testing methods? the answer is, firstly, a marketing ban on new animal-tested cosmetics five years after adoption of the legislation, as the report that we adopted in the environment committee states. this is clearly not now against wto rules. secondly, a complete test ban, with a definite date by which it will come into force. i believe anything less than this to be insufficient and unsatisfactory and i know my constituents share that view. banning cosmetic testing will not mean that consumers will be sold unsafe products, but will mean an end to a great deal of animal suffering.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur for his work. he is wise to recommend that parliament gives its assent to the position that the council has adopted. this is one of the only areas under the treaty where it is the parliament and not the commission which has the right of initiative. we took this initiative some years ago, the council has acted on our text, and indeed incorporated most of the essential elements that we wished to see incorporated into the uniform electoral system, or at least the common principles for the system. our argument that proportional representation should be obligatory in every member state is accepted. i come from the last member state to have introduced proportional representation for european elections and am glad that this will now be recognised as a principle to be applied across all member states. it also recognises that so that not everything is done at the level of highly centralised national lists, regional constituencies, which are closer to the people, should be possible, especially in the larger member states. the report also recommends that we bring to an end, although this will be phased in, the dual mandate whereby members sit both in the european parliament and in their national parliament. that is an attempt to do two full-time jobs at once: it is no longer feasible, it is no longer tenable and it is right to phase it out. all in all, we can approve this text although it is not fully satisfactory in every respect, but that is part of the give and take of the european union, part of the process of accommodation that we go through and we can accept it. my group will therefore be voting for the report by mr gil-robles. we have a problem, however, with recital d. this recital begins by stating that we regret that the single european constituency, which parliament proposed, will not be introduced. the problem here is that parliament did not propose that, parliament said that it was something that could be examined for the future, as of the 2009 elections. the text even says that we regret that it is not to be introduced in time for the next european elections, when we did not even envisage it as a possibility for the next european elections. if we are serious as a parliament, even those amongst us who support the idea of 10% of the seats being elected in this way, we should take this particular recital out of the text because it actually contradicts the facts and our proposals. we will be doing ourselves no good by regretting that the council did not approve something which we did not even propose. with that small reservation, i can support the text and my group will be voting in favour of the rest of it.
madam president, as previous speakers have said, it has proved to be an extraordinarily controversial process to get this far, especially for the british who have only now agreed to bring in a fair voting system, without which, it must be said, i would unlikely to be speaking here this afternoon. the british also accept that they have a responsibility to ensure that the citizens of gibraltar can be represented in this place. i trust that the participation of gibraltar within the european political system will soften some of the nationalistic tensions we have seen in that part of the union. several states have quite properly conceded the end of the dual mandate. this practice is contrary to the constitutional principle of the separation of powers and impairs parliament's efficiency. so i congratulate the rapporteur and the belgian and spanish presidencies for brokering the agreement. i look forward to a further review of the uniform electoral procedure, by which time i trust that the convention will have established the argument for regional seats in the larger states as well as for some element of a transnational list.
madam president, the report before the house makes perfect sense if you believe that this parliament ought to be the legislature of a european polity. after all, every other state has a national assembly elected by a uniform method. but i hope members will acknowledge that this is not the only legitimate view of the european union. some of us see this parliament not as a federal assembly, but as a forum wherein the representatives of the peoples of europe may hold the eu bureaucracy to account. the role of a member of the european parliament is not to be an agent for the european project; it is to represent the interests of his constituents. i was elected to speak for south east england in brussels, not to speak for brussels in south east england. that is why i believe that it should be up to each member state to decide how and when to select its meps. i personally favour a majoritarian first-past-the-post voting system. but even if i did not, i would still object to any method being imposed by the eu. nor is it the business of this house to dictate the gender composition of electoral lists. it is surely up to each party to decide how many men and women it wants to offer as candidates and up to voters to pass judgment on them. above all, i object to the reiteration of this parliament's demand for a pan-european top-up list. this, it seems to me, elevates the dogma of european integration above any practical considerations of accountability or responsiveness. there can be no european democracy as long as there is no european demos. we delude ourselves if we believe that this house commands anything like the affinity and identity which national parliaments have built up over the centuries.this parliament could perform a useful role scrutinising the budget and holding the commission to account. i only wish that the house were more interested in carrying out the functions which it already has, rather than constantly demanding new powers.
mr president, one of the reasons that bali was so disappointing is that people need incentives to become involved in achieving the goal of sustainable development. every failure to reach agreement, such as this, sends out very negative signals. action plans should focus on people because development can only be truly sustainable in its widest possible sense if it looks at people's needs but has respect for different languages and cultures as well as cultural values. there has to be partnership with developing countries and structures that respect democracy, human rights and good governance – new structures for global governance such as the world environment agency. as we have heard from the other speakers, there is general pessimism about the prospects of success at johannesburg, so i would like to ask the commission what the eu strategy in pursuit of sustainable development will be if johannesburg does not deliver.
mr president, i would like to thank the commission and the council, and i think we can rely on the commissioner to take a very strong stand on these important issues. as she acknowledges, the european union has a particular and important role to play: as a major donor of aid, as the biggest donor of humanitarian aid in the world and as the biggest trading block in the world. we have clout and we need to punch our weight in johannesburg, but i acknowledge that it will be difficult. market access is a key issue. president museveni, after the bali meeting, said that talk about sustainability is all very well but that market access is the most important issue. ghana also challenged the european union last week, saying that the union talks about opening borders and about bringing down barriers, but is clearly protectionist and unfair. ghana, of course, is talking about the high tariffs that have to be paid when an attempt is made to introduce processed coffee into the european union. nor can we preach about free trade when we continue to hand out subsidies to our farmers which artificially depress the prices of commodities such as cotton. we need coherence, we need consistency, we need to have an understanding of what self-reliance actually means, providing a ladder out of poverty, and we also need to understand about creating real global partnerships. commissioner, you need alliances in johannesburg. the united states is blocking plans to halve the number of people who lack sanitation – two fifths of the population of the planet – while 2.4 billion do not have any sanitation, not even a bucket to use, in a world where that is one of the main causes of disease. twenty five per cent of urban africans have no piped water whatsoever. the us position is always a very negative one, as it was when i was at the un children's conference. the world's superpower is not prepared to address these imperatives, and i hope that we will make a clear case that we will not meet the millennium development goals unless we take strong action.
mr president, i am glad to hear that the spanish presidency assures us that the council will play a leadership role at johannesburg. however, if it is going to, then it will have to get its act together very fast. the commissioner complains that the g-77 is insisting on the global solidarity pact. but what they wanted was essentially the money that was promised to them ten years ago, which was supposed to pay for the implementation of the rio agreements agreed then. no wonder they have no faith in the north, which has not produced that money yet. on trade, the commissioner says that if johannesburg focuses on trade issues we will lose the focus on sustainable development. the point is that you cannot separate trade and sustainable development. if people are to have secure access to water, we cannot pressure them into privatising their water supplies under the gats agreement. if people are to have secure access to food, we cannot keep dumping agricultural products on their markets. it seems that it was agricultural subsidies in the eu that yet again broke one of the deals on the table. there is extraordinary hypocrisy in demanding subsidy reduction and neo-liberal economic policies in the south while practising old-fashioned northern protectionism in the north.
mr president, i welcome this afternoon's debate, because if ever a process needed fresh political impetus and initiative this one does. what commissioner wallström correctly called a stand-off in her speech this afternoon will not be solved unless the european union visibly shifts its position towards that of developing countries. compromise, yes, but not a compromise which demands increasing environmental goals from the developing countries without offering them trade and economic gains at the same time. sustainable development includes development and where is the commitment to that in the eu's position? i welcome the limited promises made by the commissioner this afternoon as regards seeking the extension of the "everything but arms" initiative worldwide, and also by the spanish presidency on the tobin tax and other potential new sources of public finance for development. but i share colleagues' view that there is no point in agreeing a commitment to eliminate child labour and then relying on exclusively voluntary agreements with business to achieve this and other legitimate development goals. i remind the council and commission that two weeks ago this parliament voted for mandatory social and environmental reporting by european enterprises on their global supply chain, as a first step towards establishing a binding framework for corporate accountability. i ask you to lead that argument in johannesburg too. finally, compromise with the us is one thing. allowing the us to exercise a veto on agreement is another. today we are left with an implementation plan with no less than 200 sets of brackets representing unresolved issues. without stronger leadership from the eu, there can and will be no final agreement.
the council. - mr president, i think this debate has been extraordinarily instructive because i think a lot has been said, but all that has been said is something that both the council and the commission have fully internalized, because we fully share the general disappointment that we all feel at the results of bali and the concern at the almost impossible difficulties facing the preparation of the johannesburg conference. i would not, however, like to end this debate on a negative note, mentioning all the injustices that exist in relation to the distribution of poverty in the world and the big problems of world trade, the problems of the environment and without thinking that europe has a leadership capacity. i think that the fact that the european parliament has this concern inspires the commission and the council, that we have a responsibility to represent europe's position and its leadership on all these issues that are so close to us and, of course, so dear to us, because they affect the conscience of european public opinion in a very important way. i would like to say that, although the outcome of bali was not very positive, very important milestones and events have been achieved during these months of spanish presidency which have reaffirmed that the european union is moving in the right direction. we remember that the european union ratified the kyoto protocol at the beginning of march, we remember that we made a compromise in monterrey against all odds, committing ourselves to development aid, we remember that the european union has maintained its leadership in development aid and in advocating bold policies on trade with developing countries, such as the everything but arms directive, over the years. so we have a baggage, we are fighting for a certain idea which i think we all naturally share - parliament, the council and the commission - that we have to make an effort to make the world we live in a better world, but this is a very complex world, in which, as all the members who have spoken here know very well because they are naturally very well aware of the dialectic at play at this moment in the face of johannesburg, there are great interests and great selfishness, not only on the part of the developed world, but also on the part of other groups of countries which have radical positions and which often prevent a consensus from being reached. our thesis so far has been that it is better to have a global agreement, however unambitious, than no agreement at all. that is why we have not been able to reach a positive agreement in bali, but our will to reach an agreement remains intact. this week the permanent representatives committee is discussing a number of initiatives which the general affairs council will consider next monday, 17th, and which will become guidelines for the seville european council to continue the negotiation. the president of the council, for his part, intends to take this issue to the highest level at the g8 summit in kananaskis, alberta, canada, at the end of june. the spanish presidency will keep up the pressure until the end and the danish presidency is also ready to take over from 1 july. i think that the fact that bali has been a disappointment to us all should not discourage us; i do not think that all is lost and that much can still be done. i also believe very strongly that the council, together with the commission, can maintain its leadership position; that the seville european council will give a clear message to the world about our position and our commitment to the johannesburg objectives; and i also believe that we will also work with our partners, mainly in the g8, and that there are still almost three months to go until the start of johannesburg and that we hope to have enough baggage to impose, with our strength and our leadership, a solution that is accepted by all in this south african city at the beginning of september. we do not want johannesburg, as i have said, to be another disappointment like durban, and we are prepared to work towards that, and we do so with the satisfaction and relief of having the political support of this parliament which has been firmly expressed in today's sitting.
the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would first of all like to thank you for an important debate and for the constructive comments which we will of course take with us in our evaluation of bali and in our preparations for johannesburg. let us remember the difficult starting point we actually have with, first of all, a completely different political climate from that which prevailed when the rio meeting took place. now we live in a much more polarized world. the fight against terrorism and the axis of evil have naturally changed the mood of the g77. expectations for the bali summit were incredibly high. there was a very long wish list covering all the political areas imaginable, and a poorly focused political agenda. against this background, it is important not to disregard what has been achieved. we had a whole line of staff working very hard to actually make sure that we could 'clean up' and agree on as much as possible in the action plan. a lot has also been achieved and we have reached a decision. we should not forget the climate negotiations, which also broke down at a certain point, but which could be resumed and brought to a satisfactory conclusion. it is little wonder that the poor countries are now complaining and demanding more from us. the money needed to pay for the thousands of recommendations decided on in rio was never realised. that is why the implementation of all these recommendations is so poor. it is therefore vital that we now prepare ourselves for the role of bridge builders. we will have to play that role very actively, i imagine, in johannesburg. we need to be more specific in the areas mentioned in this debate. after all, none of this is news to the commission or the council. these are areas we have already discussed and prepared for, but we need to see how far we can go in terms of subsidies, trade, access to our markets, development aid. we need to be even clearer about the concrete objectives we have set out, for example on water and energy. we may have to supplement it with cost estimates and demonstrate how we will manage to implement them. the opposition comes, of course, from those who do not want to go beyond the objectives of the millennium declaration and who do not want to set concrete timetables, deadlines and concrete targets in terms of years and so on. we need to make sure that we can save the position of environmental issues in the debate. we need to save the whole concept of sustainable development. i understand, of course, that it is important to link it to trade and development issues and to financing issues, but it is also important to safeguard the whole idea that it is a whole. it is important to see it as a whole where environmental issues have their place and where economic and social issues also have their place. what, finally, happens if johannesburg fails? this is obviously not something we are finishing up in johannesburg. the objectives we set for the european union will of course be lived up to and continue to be worked on after johannesburg. the failure of any of these must not prevent us from pursuing and implementing the plans we have agreed upon. i want to thank you again for this important debate. all of this we carry with us in our preparations. i hope that we can count on the support of the european parliament and that we will also be able, hopefully, to use the european parliament's delegation in the preparations as actively as possible.
- this debate is over.
- the next item is the report (a5-0207/2002) by mrs hautala, on behalf of the european parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a european parliament and council directive amending council directive 76/207/eec on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment for men and women as regards access to employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions (pe-cons 3624/2002 - c5-0185/2002 - 2000/0142 (cod)).
- we shall have to interrupt the debate and resume it at 9 p.m., since the agenda calls for the commission's statement at 5.30 p.m.
- the commission communication on the green paper on consumer protection and contamination of foodstuffs by nitrophen is on the agenda.
commission. – mr president, the green paper on consumer protection which was adopted by the commission in october 2001 put forward a number of options and questions on the future of eu consumer protection policy. it suggested in particular the idea of adopting a framework directive on fair commercial practices. it also suggested developing a legal instrument for cooperation between enforcement authorities. the public consultation launched by the green paper received a very wide response from business, consumers and national governments. the response gives the commission clear support for developing a proposal for a framework directive. in particular, a very large majority of the member states supported this option. the council has called on the commission to follow up the green paper as a matter of priority. however, there was a general feeling amongst those who supported the idea and those who, on balance, did not, that more information, clarification and consultation was needed on the content of a framework directive. the basic structure of a framework directive outlined in the green paper was broadly accepted. we have therefore decided that the best approach would be to embark on a further round of consultation on the substance of a framework directive before moving on to the stage of making proposals. the follow-up communication adopted today by the commission responds to this need for further consultation. it summarises the results of the consultation, draws policy conclusions and sets out an action plan for further consultation. for the sake of transparency and in order to structure the debate with the member states, an outline of a possible framework directive on fair commercial practices is attached to the communication. this is not intended to be a draft proposal; rather it is the first in a series of working documents designed to clear the ground and provide some much needed structure and form to what has been up to now a somewhat confused debate. let me try and set out what a framework directive would do. it would set the standards that business will have to meet when dealing with consumers. consumers should have the information they need to take informed decisions. they should be protected from rogue traders who seek to mislead and harass them through dishonest advertising and marketing. the framework directive will contain a general clause prohibiting unfair commercial practices detrimental to consumers. the general clause will be supplemented by specific rules covering the various categories of unfair commercial practices both before and after sale. these categories range from misleading advertising and aggressive marketing methods to failure to provide after-sales customer assistance and effective complaint handling. a non-exhaustive list of examples could be attached to the directive in order to illustrate the scope of the general clause and how the specific rules work in practice. my intention is that we develop legislation that focuses on the fundamental issues. business should then be left free to apply to the principles of the framework directive in their area of competence through effective codes of conduct. the commission could also develop non-binding guidance to reduce the risk of divergent interpretations of the framework directive at national level. it goes without saying that such guidance cannot change the democratically approved legislation. the strong role of parliament in the legislative process will in no way be undermined. the follow-up communication also provides for the setting up of an expert group. the main task of this group would be to identify the common ground between national systems and the barriers to the internal market for business and consumers. it should also seek to identify the level of harmonisation needed to ensure a high level of consumer protection and completion of the internal market with the inclusion of a mutual recognition clause. i also hope that the group will be able to find simplified solutions to consumer protection problems, although not at the cost of effective protection. codes of conduct and the use of guidance both have a role to play here. i hope we can develop legislation that focuses on the fundamental issues. it should set benchmarks for the desired outcomes for consumers. procedural and prescriptive rules should be avoided where possible to ensure legislation does not become obsolete. in parallel to the work of the expert group, my services will make arrangements for consultation with stakeholders on the same issues. we will organise meetings in brussels for eu organisations. i hope, therefore, that the follow-up communication will provide a sound basis for moving towards a proposal for a framework directive that can command widespread support and confidence. such a directive will be both a genuine boost for competition in the internal market and also demonstrate to eu citizens the practical and useful role the eu can play in their daily lives. i hope that the proposed method of consultation will enable the commission to fully understand the different nuances of the national rules on fair trading and build a consensus on a workable framework directive. the task ahead should not be underestimated. the encouraging response to the green paper, however, gives confidence that we can achieve it. the consultation showed clear support for the ideas in the green paper on enforcement cooperation. i believe that we now have a clear political mandate to proceed on the basis of a legislative proposal in this area. in this context, i would like to stress my commitment to producing a proposal on enforcement cooperation in the near future, hopefully before the end of this year. i regret that parliament has not yet expressed an opinion on the green paper. however, i should add that i do not see this as a particular problem. the follow-up communication is itself on a further stage in the consultation process. it provides a more detailed set of ideas. i therefore look forward to the european parliament's opinion on both the green paper and the follow-up communication. i can assure you that the views of parliament will play a very important part in the commission's deliberations at the legislative stage. i look forward to discussing this issue with you in greater detail in the months to come.
- i also thought that the commissioner was going to make a statement on both subjects, but so far he has not made a statement on nitrophen. i think you should do it now, commissioner, so that our colleagues can discuss both topics.
commission. – in answer to mr kindermann's question on how we can ensure that member states carry out their work properly, first of all it is the primary role of the authorities in the member states to carry out their functions and to comply with the legislation. that is a responsibility that is imposed primarily on the member states themselves. in addition to that, there is the function of the fvo in ensuring that this work is done. their function is to inspect the inspectors. in carrying out that task, they produce reports which are published on the internet. in answer to mr mulder, that is what happened in this instance. the fvo carried out this work. there were reports on residues in germany in july 2001 and on controls in the organic sector. these reports, which found serious weaknesses, are already available on the internet. they have been the subject of discussion in the past. i reiterate to mr mulder what i said in answer to mr kindermann: the role of the fvo is to inspect the inspectors. it cannot ensure that every single plant is carrying out its work properly and carefully. that is a function for the inspectors employed by the member states themselves. the third question related to whether belgium and germany have been treated unequally. discrimination means treating two situations which are the same in a different manner, or treating two different situations in the same way. in this instance we have two different situations. they are not comparable in scale. large sections of the pig and poultry industry in belgium were affected at that time. in germany an estimated 1% of the organic sector – itself a niche sector which amounts to only 2% of overall production – is concerned in this instance. the german authorities made good progress in tracing and recalling potentially contaminated products. unfortunately the scale of the dioxin problem in belgium made tracing much more difficult. it is important to recall that, because we have been working together over the last two-and-a-half years, we have put in place safety measures to ensure traceability. in this instance the legislation did work. it was not in place to assist those who were in charge of the issues in 1999. there was a significant delay in reporting the problems in belgium, resulting in the risk of dissemination of the dioxin throughout belgium and other member states, in circumstances where the level of contamination, particularly of pork and poultry, was very significant – much more widespread than in the present instance. the handling of the nitrofen contamination has met with general satisfaction in the member states. it has been discussed in the standing committee today and will be discussed again on friday. only belgium considered the eu response to the dioxin crisis unsatisfactory in terms of the eu-wide ban. third countries were also threatening measures against all eu exports, in the absence of proof that the problem was confined to belgium. once again, there is a significant difference between the two situations. my first important decision on assuming office was to lift restrictions on the export of belgian beef arising from the dioxin crisis. you will appreciate that this was not a comfortable decision for a new commissioner for health and consumer protection with responsibility for food safety on his very first day in office. nonetheless i took it because i was advised to and the evidence that was put before me supported it. i was satisfied that the easing of restrictions was justified. i therefore take very seriously any suggestion that the commission may have treated two member states differently merely because one is large and one is small. i am very sensitive to these issues, not least because of where i come from. it would be entirely wrong for anyone to think that the commission's decisions over the last week were based on anything other than the scientific facts and the advice given to me and the standing committee which led us to conclude that our decisions were the right ones. i insist that my decision was based solely on objective analysis, completely divorced from any consideration of the size of the member state involved. that is my position.
mr president, i shall also focus my remarks on the green paper communication. i would like particularly to invite mr byrne to confirm to the house that the provisions of last week's communication by president prodi on simplifying and improving the regulatory environment will be applied in full to the extension of his proposal. i would also particularly like him to confirm that he will be undertaking a full regulatory impact assessment of this wide-ranging proposal and that he has not excluded the possibility of meeting the undoubted requirements he has set out for improving the quality of consumer protection by means other than a directive. in conclusion could i also invite him to confirm to the house tonight what he said to the legal affairs committee the other week, namely that the sales promotion regulation continues to have his full support and is entirely compatible with the suggested proposals.
i should like to congratulate the commissioner on the win by his home team in football today. i want to follow in a similar vein to the previous speaker. we welcome the proposals in the green paper. however, commissioner, you will agree that your ideas are progressing very fast in this area. in the light of the proposals on better government that came out last week, which mr harbour mentioned, i want to ask you three specific questions. what improvements do you intend to make in terms of consultation of all the actors involved – consumers, smes, and the government departments that will have to implement any particular laws that emerge from this? how do you intend to improve the evaluation of the impact assessment in terms of cost? can you guarantee to make available all consultations on the web so that these will be available for consultation? i would like to thank your staff for providing me with previous consultations. however, it has to be said that they are all in different languages. i cannot read all of them; and if there is to be transparency on these issues they need to be available publicly on the web and in languages that people can understand.
mr president, commissioner, in one minute nobody should confuse attitude with platitude. i will be quick, firstly could you come back to this house when you know more about the timescale of the german contamination issue, particularly whether the rapid alert system worked effectively. there are more similarities with the belgian case than i think you imply today. secondly, would you accept with respect to consumer consultation that you need to be looking at the duty not to trade unfairly and the accumulation of case history in that field, as well as setting out the duty to trade fairly, which in your country and mine, and some others, is a fairly new concept.
commission. – in answer to the first question by mr graefe zu baringdorf, the situation here is that there are residue monitoring plans in place at both eu and member state level. these plans include banned substances such as nitrofen. the plans have proven their effectiveness in recent months. the presence of chloramphenicol, for instance and, indeed, nitrofen were identified by this procedure. they are both banned substances that were brought to light by the use of this procedure. finally, such testing extends to both imported and domestically produced products. a number of members raised that point. food and feedingstuffs must be safe, irrespective of their origin. the residue plans from third countries, which are obligatory under eu legislation, are carefully checked to ensure that the necessary controls are in place. the same issue arises with candidate countries. we exercise the same degree of care to ensure compliance. the second question relates to the green paper and whether any sectors are going to be excluded. the financial sector will be excluded and the whole area of food safety legislation will not be covered because it has its own separate legal regime. parliament will be involved; not only will parliament's opinion on the original paper be taken into account, but also we await the opinion on this follow-up paper. so parliament has an opportunity to present an opinion on both papers. the reason we moved ahead was not, i can assure you, through any disrespect to parliament, but because there was a considerable degree of pressure by the council and others. also it was felt that the first paper was not as detailed as people wanted. i felt that it was useful to make the follow-up paper more detailed to assist parliament in reaching its conclusions and perhaps providing an even more valuable opinion for me to take into account when we come to draft the final framework directive. obviously parliament will have a full role, as it normally does. i was then asked whether i would take into account the better regulation communication by president prodi last week. i confirm that i will and i also confirm what i said in the committee on legal affairs and the internal market some weeks ago, that i was involved in the work on the sales promotion directive. my services and i support that. that piece of legislation is compatible with this communication and with our general plans on unfair trading practices. mrs mccarthy is concerned that we are moving very fast. that is probably true. however, it is intended to consult fully with stakeholders. as i said, there will also be provision for stakeholders on all sides to have a role in the operation of the legislation when it becomes operational. mr staes goes back to the point about belgium and unequal treatment. i can only repeat what i said earlier. neither i nor my services were motivated by any considerations of the size of the member state. to mrs oomen-ruijten i can say that we in the european union have only known about this since 24 may, although private laboratories in germany have known since january. we are very unhappy that it took so long to notify the federal authorities. as i said earlier, this point is being taken up with the federal authorities. this is an issue of some concern and i know it is a concern in the countries with a federal structure, where sometimes there is perhaps not the same speed of communication between regions or länder and the federal authorities. but i must insist that at european union level our interlocutor is the federal government and therefore the institutions of the european union cannot be mollified by responses from member states with a federal structure that really there is nothing they can do because the problem resides in their länder or regions. that is not a response that we at european union level can accept. as regards third countries, i can only repeat what i said earlier in response to mr graefe zu baringdorf. they are treated in an equivalent manner to member states. mr whitehead then asked if i would come back again when i have more information. i am always happy to come back to parliament with up-to-date information on any issue, particularly an issue of such importance as this. on the second question, he asks me about the accumulation of case-law and fair trading. people used to a common law system are often anxious that what we are trying to do here is move closer to a codified system which they would not feel totally happy with. i addressed this issue before when i was here and i said on that occasion that i am sensitive to this point, both because of where i come from and because of my professional background. in our thinking on this and in the legislation put in place, we will seek to ensure that existing legal systems in the european union are fully taken into account. mrs patrie then asked me about the green paper. she may have misunderstood what i said earlier, or i may not have expressed myself very well. in bringing forward the paper at this time i did not intend any discourtesy to the house in not awaiting the opinion, but it was important for us to add further detail to the first proposal and give parliament an opportunity to produce an even better opinion on our work in this area. finally, in response to mrs keppelhoff-wiechert, i agree that there are problems in germany and that there were delays. one of the federal agencies in germany knew about this for quite some time and failed to inform the federal authorities. it was not just a question of the länder knowing and failing to pass on information. a federal agency had that information and failed to pass it on. there is one other issue i have some small concern about, or maybe it is a serious concern. very often private laboratories have information on food safety issues. under confidentiality clauses, they fail to disclose this information to the relevant authorities. we have resolved that to some extent with the food law that we passed here a couple of months ago, but unfortunately the requirement and the legal obligation for private laboratories to disclose relevant information to the public authorities will not become operational until 2005. this is a problem. it is something that has to be addressed by member states, particularly those with a federal structure, to ensure that information available to private laboratories is made available to those who make public health decisions.
- we are 20 minutes late, mr staes, therefore i will not be allowing anyone to speak. the matter will be discussed again. sometimes the commissioners are very clever in making sure that you don't fall into the trap. sometimes they fall into traps. but i'm sure if anyone can find a way to keep this topic on the agenda, it's you. the debate is closed.
commission. – mr president, the commission is of the opinion that, within the internal market, citizens should be able to receive television services from other member states. it is therefore far from satisfactory that citizens should encounter difficulties in gaining access to programmes broadcast from other member states via satellite. certain rules concerning copyright and rights related to copyright, applicable in particular to cross-border satellite broadcasting, are already laid down in directive 93/83 in order to prevent certain difficulties. nonetheless, while preparing the reports on the application of that directive, the commission has been informed of existing problems and has highlighted them in a document which should be submitted to parliament before summer. in that context, the commission would inform the member who has tabled this question that it is currently reviewing the various aspects of this issue.
mr president, i was hoping to be able to congratulate commissioner bolkestein on a normally forthright reply, but i listened to that reply and i wonder what i have heard. "the commission is reviewing it." i am asking the commission, are they going to do anything about it? we have a situation where we believe in the single market, where citizens move now in increasing numbers around the continent. they would like to be able to watch french television in germany; they would like to be able to watch british television if they retire to spain. the reality is that the single market is not working. i would like to have just a glimmer of a more positive statement from the commissioner that not only is he going to review this problem, but he is actually going to do something about it and make a positive proposal to the parliament.
commission. – i agree with mr perry that the situation at present is highly unsatisfactory. as far as the broadcasting of television programmes is concerned, the internal market does not exist. the difficulty is that the possibilities for the commission are restricted. the sad fact remains that the directive i referred to earlier, which was adopted in 1993, does not give the commission a sufficient legal basis for infringement proceedings which might have been available to the commission if the legal situation had been different. therefore it is not open to the commission to start the infringement proceedings that i am sure mr perry would consider desirable. so all the commission can do is carry out the study, which is nearing completion and will be submitted to parliament as soon as it is ready – before the summer recess – so that parliament can draw its own conclusions. mr perry is completely right in expressing his serious dissatisfaction with the state of affairs. the commission lacks any legal basis for any infringement proceedings that members of parliament might want to undertake. it is an unsatisfactory situation and the commission is looking into the problem. its analysis will come before parliament as soon as possible. at the moment this is all i can say.
obviously mr bolkestein is finding this a difficult one to square with his own principles of the single market, and i sympathise with him in that. clearly, directive 93/83 is unsatisfactory. surely therefore the commission can go back to the treaty of rome and the basis of the whole community. as i understand it, the commission's role is to make sure that the community operates as a community and in accordance with its founding treaties. it should therefore work towards the single market by bringing forward a new directive which in fact implements the single market in television without frontiers.
commission. – mr heaton-harris has put six distinct questions. i will answer them all, but it will unfortunately take a few minutes. the first question: firstly, in the memorandum of understanding signed by the belgian minister mr rik dams and me on behalf of the commission on 17 july 2001, it was anticipated that the negotiations on the berlaymont should be concluded by the end of december 2001. however, on 14 december, i was informed by the minister that belgium would not be ready to discuss financial questions until february because he was expecting the outcome of relevant audits. the audit reports eventually became available to him in march and intensive negotiations then started. since then, the positions of the belgian government and the commission have become closer, but we have not yet reached final agreement on the price that the commission would be willing to pay or on legal guarantees which are required by the commission. negotiations are therefore continuing. i will take questions 2 and 3 together. the belgian authorities have confirmed that the current estimated costs of the basic renovated building are eur 605 million and the government has confirmed its intention to make the building fit for reoccupation by 31 december 2003. the history of this project means, however, that the commission considers that certainty about the realistic hand-over date can only be established when a specific date has been fixed in a contract that will also make provision for financial penalties for late delivery. question 4: before the commission enters into a binding contract with the belgian government, we will naturally provide the budgetary authority with an analysis of the outcome of the negotiations held with the belgian government. as i have indicated on several occasions, the commission's negotiating position is based on an independent analysis of the total cost as well as on those costs that are due to the numerous delays encountered in the renovation project. question 5: i can confirm that throughout all the discussions and activities related to the berlaymont question, the commission has been motivated by the absolute need to ensure value for money in the use of community funds. that will continue to be a major pre-condition for a satisfactory conclusion of the negotiations with belgium. finally, question 6: the technical description of the building will be legally binding and there will be legal guarantees for the quality delivered. by these means, we will ensure that the final product satisfies high standards of quality. as regards efficiency, the commission has made it very clear that we are deeply dissatisfied with the fact that the original deadline was not respected and, even more importantly, that it has changed on numerous occasions. as i have said to parliament and to the belgian government, i believe that many of the difficulties encountered in this project are due to serious management problems that originated with the management structure of berlaymont 2000.
i have a couple of supplementary questions. in principle is the commission absolutely committed to reoccupying the berlaymont building? if not, when do you believe the final decision will be taken within the college of the commission? is there any sort of timetable within the commission for looking at these procedures? how will the final cost of eur 605 million be borne within the european budget?
commission. – i am grateful to the honourable member because he provides me with an opportunity to further spell out the commission's approach. the eur 605 million is what the negotiations are all about, so i am not yet in a position to be able to say to him whether that overall price is satisfactory to us, whether it meets the needs we have or what our eventual position following the conclusion of negotiations will be about that price. as far as the final decision in the college is concerned, that too is dependent on the satisfactory outcome of negotiations; and i have specified the fundamental considerations there. the price, if we are to reoccupy the berlaymont, has to be satisfactory; the quality has to be acceptable; there have to be legal guarantees; and these are preconditions for our eventual reoccupation of the berlaymont. until those conditions are satisfied, i cannot specify a date for a final decision in the college. i hope that it will not be long delayed. it is in nobody's interest for the existing uncertainty to be continued. i have, then, virtually answered the first question as to whether we are absolutely committed to reoccupying the renovated building. it is our preference to do so for a large number of reasons, not least the fact that possession of the building in something like 27 years would give us a very valuable piece of real estate in an extremely intensively developed part of brussels. we are also aware that the logistical convenience of the commission would be served by being able to reoccupy that building, but we will not reoccupy under any conditions; and therefore it is crucial that if we are to consider, finally, reoccupation of the berlaymont building, we are confident that the requirements relating to price and value, which we have made very clear throughout, are satisfied.
i would like mr kinnock to elaborate on his last answer and just to confirm, in the light of the very extensive organisational reforms, and all that is implied in some of the changes of responsibility, out-sourcing, and the new technology, whether he is really satisfied that the berlaymont is going to be the appropriate home for the new re-focused commission. alongside that, i wonder if i might invite him, given that yesterday this parliament finally received formally the package for the reform of the staff regulations, to say what his expectations are in terms of our scrutiny of this very important package given that it is of course tied in with a number of important considerations, such as the pay package, 'le méthode', and what he would like to see the parliament do in terms of timing and other work on this important package.
commission. – the better regulation package that the commission adopted last week sets out a number of fundamental principles that will be followed in future policy and legislative proposals. in particular, it establishes that all the commission’s proposals presented in the annual policy strategy and later in the work programme will undergo a proportionate integrated impact assessment and that all departments will follow uniform minimum standards on consultation. briefly, it aims at more transparent, efficient and cost-effective lawmaking. such tools should significantly contribute to improving the quality and coherence of policy design by the european institutions. a strong and solid knowledge base for policy making is crucial if the european institutions are to improve the regulatory environment. the challenge is to ensure a high level of protection for european citizens in sensitive areas such as the environment, health and consumer protection, while avoiding over-regulation, which damages growth and employment prospects. however, to meet our common objective of simplifying the union’s legislative environment, in particular for european small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), there is a need to increase interinstitutional cooperation, including cooperation on impact assessments by parliament and the council. the commission has been calling for this, proposing that a permanent interinstitutional mechanism be created to implement its action plan, in order to ensure the quality of legislation. in addition, during his presentation of the better regulation package to the conference of presidents at parliament on 5 june, president prodi renewed the appeal for an interinstitutional agreement on some of the proposed actions. hopefully, progress will soon be achieved. encouraging discussions have already started between the three institutions. in formally adopting new tools for impact analysis and consultation, the commission also wants to promote a new culture of transparency, participation and challenge. all parties concerned by its proposals will be invited to contribute with their views and expertise. parliament has a crucial role to play in this process of cultural change.
i welcome commissioner liikanen's statement and his communication, which is a major step forward. could the commissioner tell me if, as part of the impact assessment that the commission will be carrying out, there will be a rigorous cost/benefit analysis of the commission's proposal, taking into account all factors? secondly, given that the commission proposes to do this before making proposals which then go before the council and parliament, how does it envisage following the amendments being made by the council and parliament to ensure that there is an impact assessment of those amendments? i recognise that what he has done is lay down the gauntlet to parliament to get its act together on carrying out assessments of its own amendments. far too often parliament passes amendments on important legislation with no consideration for its impact. i hope the commission will be able to work with parliament and the council in order to ensure an on-going process.
commission. – as far as this impact assessment on the business side is concerned, we are very advanced. we had a two-year project to consolidate methodology on business impact assessments, we have organised a public hearing and consultation on that and i am happy to give all this information to the honourable member. so it is well advanced and i hope that by the end of the year we will be in the phase that all the new major proposals will go through this kind of profound assessment. as to the role of the other institutions, in the spirit of open and transparent legislation it will be important that the parliament and the council also include the same logic. that is not for the commission to decide. if the parliament, the council and the commission agree on the principles, the commission's impact assessment already must have analysed different parameters and that information will be available and helpful to assess the amendments. if any further work needs to be done, i am sure the commission is very willing to cooperate.
commission. – i agree that it is important to have fewer bankruptcies, but this paper on entrepreneurship is intended to be a more basic analysis of the entrepreneurship dilemma in europe: why are entrepreneurs so respected and appreciated and yet so few people want to become entrepreneurs? the second problem is that those who want to become entrepreneurs want to stay manager-owners but do not want to grow. why are so few prepared to take risks? we will analyse that in the broader sense but without neglecting mr rübig's point of view.
i would also like to compliment mr liikanen on the work that he has done on business impact assessment. i would like to press him a bit further, first of all, on the timing about when he expects this consistent methodology to be working throughout the directorates of the entire commission. secondly; does he feel that there is a need for some independent assessment? might there be a danger that the impact assessments being done by the directorates-general themselves would perhaps be a little too favourable towards the proposals? thirdly, would he agree with me that the logic followed through by my colleague mr titley, is that we really ought to be thinking in terms of having an independent regulatory assessment unit operating institutionally, which would provide a true external verification on impact assessment for all the european institutions?
mr president, on a point of order, it was a big disappointment that president prodi did not present his reform package on regulation to a conference of presidents open to all members. could you transmit this back to president cox to say that many of us felt that as it was such an important announcement we should all have been involved in that announcement. i am sure the commission would have benefited from that.
mr president, mrs zorba's report is very sensible and the ppe-de group will support it and almost all the amendments by the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy. these add to the commission's impressive project of developing a valid european research area. the only amendments we will oppose are no 6, – which excludes european funding for research aimed at military purposes. we do not look for research specifically aimed at military ends, but research might have military as well as civilian applications, for example research into new materials. by including this prohibition clause, there could be unnecessary impediments to genuinely beneficial research projects. we also prefer the committee's amendment no 24, regarding the budget, to mrs zorba's amendment no 26, which specifies an amount for the marie curie international fellowships. it is surely better to leave the eur 1.630 billion for human resources unspecified, so that there is more flexibility. we certainly have nothing against the marie curie fellowships. our group has tabled a clarifying amendment no 25 which specifies that participation will be permitted by those who hold doctoral degrees where those degrees were obtained in three, rather than four, years. i trust that mrs zorba will accept that this is a sensible clarification. i would like to concentrate on the specific programme for science and society, which is essential for re-establishing the necessary level of trust and mutual understanding between the scientific community and civil society at large. this is vital if europe's research effort is to be supported widely and with continuity and thereby realise its full potential. we have seen a lamentable breakdown in this relationship, perhaps as a result of faulty assertions by scientists and politicians in previous crises. perhaps it is even more attributable to a lack of willingness by science and industry to communicate clearly and systematically. our hope is that this programme will promote much improved communication and that the public will be much better informed about the objectives, the results, the applications, the achievements, the recognition of the ethical and environmental constraints and the practical usefulness of scientific endeavour. we hope, above all, that more young people will be attracted to science as a career. we badly need them for all our futures. we wish mr busquin, his team and this programme well.
mr president, i should like to congratulate the five rapporteurs and the commission, who have steadfastly showed their willingness to listen to the european parliament, both in the caudron report and since. i will speak briefly about each of the reports. first of all, i welcome mr van velzen's emphasis on life sciences other than genomics and his advocacy of translational research, which means rapid transposition into clinical applications. this is something which will appeal to the public. i also welcome our amendment, which adds nanosciences to nanotechnology. the recent excellent stoa report on nanotechnologies makes it clear that we are still at the stage of nanoscience. that must be emphasised. as far as aeronautics is concerned, i am glad that there will be some attention to the health of passengers. i support our amendment on space science. indeed i would like more attention to the big science projects in the european research area outside the framework programme. of course i support parliament's new emphasis on health and safety at work. i support mrs zorba's conclusions. like her, i was delighted with the increase in funding for science and society. however, i agree with her that some funding should come from the priority thematic areas for the science and society implications. multidisciplinary research, yes; a european higher education area, with the synergies that implies for the european research area. we should be training people in research management and ethics. mr piétrasanta has made an excellent analysis of the new tasks of the jrc as a technical reference body and a support mechanism for decision-making. i greatly welcome his emphasis on the need for monitoring and the need for the european parliament to be involved in such monitoring – not just in the jrc. as far as mr alyssandrakis' report is concerned, i would welcome a breakthrough in fusion research, not least because it is far less dangerous than nuclear fission and we need to have an alternative to that form of energy. i am fairly sceptical about whether or not iter will proceed within this framework programme, but we will see. every citizen wants action on radioactive waste. the royal society in the uk emphasised that recently. it has not been solved yet. i am a great advocate of transmutation and partitioning and welcome any support that can be given to those technologies. i am not, however, a supporter of spending eu money on research into new reactors. this is something that should be funded by the nuclear industry itself. we are not in the business of giving industrial aid to that particular sector. that is not what the public is calling for. as far as mr schwaiger is concerned, he is absolutely right to say that we must have, before long, some sort of aquis communautaire in the sector of nuclear safety. so congratulations to everyone for their good work and cooperation and good luck to all our scientists.
mr president, on monday i raised a point of order concerning zimbabwe and you suggested that i raise it with the presidency of the council today. i notice that there is no scheduled discussion of the situation in zimbabwe. the situation there is worsening day by day. we have had the very distressing situation of mr mugabe appearing at the un world food conference in rome in spite of an eu travel ban. what is the european union doing about the situation in zimbabwe? can i ask the presidency-in-office to ensure that this matter is discussed at seville and included in the presidency conclusions there, so that the international community is seen to be taking effective and robust action against this disgraceful regime in southern africa?
mr president, firstly, i wish to pick up on a couple of points in the joint resolution, which my group will not be supporting, points which seem to be missing from the speeches we have heard this morning: for example, the welcome given to the international criminal court while regretting the position of the united states in seeking to protect its own citizens from it. as we have heard today, justice should be universal and not dependent on nationality. the european parliament has also taken the view in the resolution that the union should be taking a strong, leading role at the johannesburg summit, as it did on the kyoto protocol. however, to do that it needs a commitment to sustainability in all aspects of its work, and that includes integration of social and environmental factors into its economic and trade policies. we have to remember that without a healthy environment we have no sound foundation for our economies. so we trust that will be remembered, as promised by commission president prodi, in the better governance arrangements and we are looking forward to the policy proofing and the impact on the social and environmental dimensions he mentioned today. to be credible at that sustainability summit, we also need to demonstrate that we understand the importance of development and its link to certain aspects of immigration policy. i was pleased to hear the spanish minister referring to issues about deep poverty. that is in marked contrast to what we have been hearing from the spanish prime minister over the last few weeks. the european union wants a mobile, flexible workforce. it is a priority in our employment policy, so why do we insist on making legal immigration for all skilled sectors virtually impossible? what we have been hearing over the last few weeks and today sounds to us simply like moving the walls of fortress europe and looking for stronger building materials, including using the idea of economic clout – such as development aid – in our attempts to have other countries police their borders more effectively to stop people leaving. the countries of eastern and central europe are joining the union to escape that sort of policy. we are also concerned at some of the proposed reforms to the council's inner workings – the development council, for example, is to be absorbed into a wider grouping. but we welcome the reassurance we have heard today that the reforms will not touch matters for the igc and the convention, because it is essential that the council does not become the legislature and executive and break the current balance between the institutions. we welcome the commitment to greater transparency and trust that this will not just be for the council but for the public as well.
mr president, little new action on immigration and asylum will emerge from seville. the tampere agenda had three elements: control, harmonisation and integration. the council has eagerly legislated on the first with half a dozen laws and a thirty-page action plan on illegal immigration, but it has lagged on harmonisation for a common asylum system and integration of minorities and migrants. that is where leaders need to give ministers a big kick but instead all they will really do is ratchet up the rhetoric of repression and hostility of fortress europe. the most despicable and stupid proposal is the denial of development aid to countries which fail to stem migration, thereby making them even poorer and generating a new exodus of desperate people. the reality is that far from promoting the greater security europe needs, the illiberal blair-aznar-berlusconi trio risks creating greater threats for european citizens by their hysterical, populist and macho responses to current challenges. by their abusive hysteria about illegal immigrants and asylum seekers they demonise foreigners and generate more race tensions and suspicions. by their big brother extension of powers for police and security services to monitor people's email, internet and telephone records they menace individual privacy. by banning organisations like the kurdish pkk and batasuna they remove political outlets for dissent as an alternative to terrorism. accession countries are encouraged to seek eu membership as a beacon of democracy, liberty and tolerance but the blair-aznar-berlusconi trio are making a mockery of that.
mr president, we live at a vital juncture of european and international affairs. my delegation strongly supports the enlargement process although as part of the institutional reform process designed to bring about our declared goal of a wider, looser europe and an unwinding of the cap and cfp. we also believe that the central eastern european countries, having thrown off the mantle of soviet-dominated communism from which we in the west were unable to protect them, and for which we can help to atone by welcoming them back into the family of european nations, do not simply wish to see the construction of another brussels-led superstate. we also welcome the rapprochement between nato and russia which now shares a common agenda with the eu in the fight against global terrorism and the goal of becoming a functioning market economy as a member of wto and at peace with its eu neighbours. we strongly support a responsible attitude towards our environment. however, we do have a number of problems with the resolution, ranging from our opposition to the treaty of nice as a prerequisite of enlargement to rejection of a common asylum and immigration policy, which we believe is a prerogative of the member states, although we strongly favour bilateral cooperation designed to safeguard the integrity of our borders. we remain deeply sceptical that joint euro-border guards would work in practice and oppose the principle of the european security and defence policy both as a duplication and as a means of de-coupling europe from our us partners in nato. we also believe there is a danger that the international criminal court will be used to make political mischief by parties hostile to our american allies. however, we welcome calls for restraint and de-escalation between india and pakistan over disputed kashmir and note encouraging signs that president musharraf has finally heeded calls to reign in islamic terrorists which his regime has until very recently supported, terrorists who have recently committed atrocities against jamu and kashmiri civilians and even the indian parliament. he should arrest and hand over those committing such acts to india for trial and justice. nevertheless we all wish the summiteers in seville every success in the challenges that lie ahead.
mr president, i also welcome the statement in the seville declaration concerning india and pakistan. it is crucial that europe takes responsibility and initiative in solving the crisis in the region and does not just leave the peace efforts to the usa and russia, especially since some of the eu member states have strong historical links with the region. i also believe that it is essential for the development of the cfsp that the eu plays a major role. i strongly agree with the council's statement about the threat to the whole region and, indeed, the whole world from a nuclear conflict. president prodi is correct in saying that we have far more opportunity to influence the situation positively before a conflict breaks out than after. i wholeheartedly endorse moves by both india and pakistan in the last few days, to seek a peaceful solution to the conflict in kashmir. we have to support these. however, despite the reduced tension at present, skirmishes along the border continue. casualties continue to rise. so the sooner de-escalation takes place the better. it is vital that diplomatic relations and transport links between the two countries are restored. bilateral talks between two sides need to take place as soon as possible. although war seems to be averted for now, tensions could easily rise again, especially around the time of elections in the indian kashmir in september. on that point, it is vital that these elections are demonstrably free and fair. however, we need to ensure that fighting over the territory of kashmir is stopped permanently. a quest for territory was the catalyst for the second world war and the solution sought to that issue needs to be applied in this case as well. just as trade was used to prevent conflict when the european coal and steel community was founded, it is vital to consider such means as a peaceful way to keep tensions permanently low. the gdp of the two countries is very low and poverty remains a major problem. despite recent positive efforts, only half the population of the region is literate, which is a major a barrier to economic growth. it is essential for the eu to prioritise global security through a poverty reduction programme. the overwhelming message is clear. war can never be the solution in situations like this. any action must be economic or humanitarian with positive steps to resolve the high level tensions. let us now turn our attention to the people.
mr president, on a point of order, history seems to be repeating itself. the vote on the calendar followed a formal sitting last time. i wish to make sure in this great democracy that you give people time to get back into their seats to vote. it seems too much of a coincidence that it happened exactly the same this year as it did last year.
rapporteur. – mr president, among the 62 amendments you are about to put to the vote en bloc from the committee on constitutional affairs is amendment no 1, but not amendment no 73. however, these amendments are complementary. we should not adopt one without adopting the other because to do so would eliminate roll-call votes. at least it would eliminate us recording the results of roll-call votes. i am sure that is not the intention of anybody in this house, nor the intention of the group which asked for a separate vote. i would ask you to take a vote together on amendments nos 1 and 73 and ask the house to vote for them. it is purely a technical rearranging of the rules. there is no real matter of importance here, but it is important that we do not make a mess of it. concerning amendment 56 :
rapporteur. – this arises because we have agreed with the other institutions two different deadlines for parliament to object to implementing measures being taken by the commission. in the general framework agreement with the commission, we have a one-month deadline. however, quite recently we successfully negotiated a longer deadline in the context of the lamfalussy report. mr von wogau was the rapporteur and will remember that we obtained a three-month deadline for measures that fall within that category. so rather than restricting ourselves to a one-month deadline in the rules generally, when you can go further for that category, the rule is being adapted to ensure that we can go further for measures of that kind. it is relatively simple and i advise the house to accept the amendment.
mr president, i am glad that my colleague in the ppe-de group has now come round to the view that i put to him yesterday. yesterday he thought that we did need a separate and additional vote, but i am happy that he now accepts that we do not.
rapporteur. – mr president, mr wuermeling is right. the confusion arises from two different versions of the original having been circulated. if we take the corrected version of the original then indeed the three amendments are identical and can be voted as one which would be the best solution.
- that makes sense to me. does the rapporteur agree?
rapporteur. – mr president, this is another case where confusion has arisen because the amendments distributed before the vote do not quite correspond to the amendments contained in the report because there was a linguistic correction in between, but mr wuermeling is right. we should stick to the same formula that we have already adopted so as to have consistency in the text.
- we'll make sure they're consistent. (parliament adopted the resolution)
mr president, i would like to point out that the british conservative delegation in the european parliament voted against the gil-robles gil-delgado report because of a number of aspects it contains with which we do not agree. i will not take up the time of the house by going through the details. we would have voted for it if it had in any way impinged upon the right of the gibraltar inhabitants to participate in the next european parliament elections. the minutes statement that is attached to this report from the uk government makes it clear that it is the uk government's sole responsibility to ensure that the legislation is put in place for gibraltarians to vote in those elections. i would like to take this brief opportunity to urge the uk government to live up to that minutes statement and put that legislation in place so that gibraltarians are able to participate in the electoral process electing representatives who will have an influence over laws which apply in gibraltar.
in writing. - i am of course in favour of direct elections to our parliament and i commend the rapporteur for the hard work he has done to increase the authority and credibility of our assembly. there is, however, a pernicious flaw in this approach of parliament to the overall question of universal suffrage. the problem is that the five elections to the european parliament since 1979 have not included a specific part of the european union. i am talking about the 15,000 voters in gibraltar. the exclusion of this small territory from the voting rights of the member states does not do them much good. and i'm talking about successive british governments and other governments. this report leaves open the question of the vote in gibraltar. although some progress has been made in this area since the european court of human rights' decision in 1999, the problem is still not resolved. no council decision on the election of the european parliament can be complete without the recognition of the rights of the gibraltarians. that is why i must vote against this report.
- mr dell'alba, we are not debating a procedural motion. it is just explanations of vote. mr bourlanges can say whatever he wants in his explanation of vote.
in writing. - i was not in favour of the two recent votes on the 2003 calendar. i voted for amendments nos 1 and 3 for the very obvious reasons that brussels is a much better place than strasbourg to do our work, both in terms of economy and efficiency. i will always vote for this view and try to put an end to the senseless and costly european wanderings which the john major government imposed on parliament at the edinburgh summit in 1992.
in writing. - i would like to express my support and appreciation for the hard work done by richard corbett and the skill he has shown in his reform of parliament's rules of procedure. thanks to his efforts, parliament should now function better and be the venue for more interesting debates. it should now be able to handle enlargement. this is an important first step towards making the parliament a more effective voice for individuals in eu decision-making.
- that concludes the explanations of vote. (the sitting was suspended at 1.40 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
mr president, i would like to thank the council for the diligent way it has pursued this complicated dossier and most especially commissioner verheugen and his staff for the phenomenal amount of work they have done on monitoring the progress that has been achieved in the candidate countries. this has actually brought us to this debate here today. without that effort, we simply would not be in this situation now. on 6 july 2002 a very famous world sporting event will start. i refer not to the world cup, the final of which will have been contested between england and ireland long before 6 july, but to the tour de france. in many ways the enlargement of the european union is comparable to the tour de france. if we were to look at ourselves now we would find ourselves at the last climb, in the mountains, with most of the gruelling race behind us and very much with the finishing line in sight, with the champs elysées in paris waiting for us. we have some tough and difficult climbs to get through at the moment. as anyone who has been on a bicycle knows: if you stop, it falls over. so now is not the time to stop. we have to keep moving forward. the message from my group is very clear, we must keep following that road map. it is a good road map and it will get us through this process. we must stick to the timescale that we have set ourselves. my esteemed colleague, klaus hänsch, first raised in this house the date of 2004 as the date for the completion of the first new accession and we must stick to that date. we must allow no new conditions to be introduced. questions of history are important but questions of history are exactly that, historical questions. britain and ireland joined the european union at the same time, yet the irish constitution at that time had a claim over british territory. that did not stop us joining this club together. britain and spain are still trying to resolve the question of gibraltar that has gone on for three centuries. these are important historical issues but they are not conditions for accession to the european union. those who use issues of history to try and create new obstacles on our road to the accession of new member states of the european union must appreciate the damage that they are doing to public opinion. i was in prague recently where there has been a 6% fall in public support for joining the european union just as a result of the debate over the beneš decrees. both the commission and the parliament are doing their work. we will rigorously assess the case of each individual country to make sure that the tough questions are answered and that we do not shirk our responsibilities. when we say we agree to a new country joining, we will have done all the hard work so that our citizens can be assured that this is a safe accession that we can all agree to. while i appreciate the work that has been done in the council, i have to say there is a great worry within this parliament that it may now be the council that is starting to drag its feet. the council often talks a good fight on many issues but sadly, in our experience it is often the council that finds it the most difficult to take the final decisions. while we understand and appreciate that many issues we tackle over the next few months will be very difficult, please do not let us delay. do not try and negotiate, or re-negotiate, the common agricultural policy in the space of two or three months to get us to october and the brussels summit. do not allow the xenophobes and the anti-europeans to slow us down. and, for heaven's sake, do not let us turn around and start blaming you for not actually getting to 2004 on time. working together, we can achieve this but i have to say in all honesty that we have worries at the moment about when the council is actually going to deliver on this. my one disappointment about the enlargement process is that the passion has gone out of it. at the beginning of the 1990s, we were all passionate about enlarging the european union, particularly in the accession states. it has now become some sort of pragmatic, technical exercise. we, and the people in the gallery here, ought to be more passionate and expectant about the enlargement of the european union because it is a historical goal which we can all be justly proud of. we need to reintroduce that element so that from galway to gdansk and beyond we secure that reunited continent. in 1990, helmut kohl and françois mitterand made a promise that we would have the enlargement of the european union completed by the year 2000. we are failing singularly to do that. the finishing line is in sight, this time it is in copenhagen. it is not paris, but let us keep the peloton together. there are many candidate countries that would like to be wearing that maillot jaune, i think they are all wearing them. the important thing is to make sure we get to copenhagen as a finishing line, not just another stage on our route to the successful completion of enlargement.
mr president, i thank the president-in-office and the commissioner for a helpful introduction to this debate and i congratulate the rapporteurs for their good work on the reports before us today. i also take this opportunity to welcome to this house the parliamentarians from the liberal family in the applicant states who are watching this debate from the gallery and have joined us to debate the issues this week. that parliamentarians from bulgaria and romania are here today is a welcome reminder that we are negotiating enlargement with 12 applicant states, even if the timescales for accession may differ a little. those of us from countries that were not founder members of the european community remember only too well the anxiety and sense of expectation which surrounded our entry negotiations and the decisions to ratify our application. coming from a country which had its application vetoed twice, i know of the enduring damage done to perceptions of european integration when a country is rejected. we should bear this in mind in assessing the current applicants. we must recognise that the applicant states have worked hard in recent years to reform their economies and consolidate democracy in order to join the union. while we expect them to redouble their efforts in the run-up to and after accession, we must also reward those efforts. that is why liberal democrats insist that both the criteria and the timetable must be respected. we should not apply stricter standards than for previous enlargements, nor pretend that everything in our own gardens smells sweet. enlargement is a process of continuous assessment, not a one-off exam. there are hotheads and faint hearts on both sides who will seek to exploit difficulties in meeting the copenhagen criteria. we must not allow them to derail enlargement. it is far better to overcome outstanding problems through the enlargement process. what is important to the health of a country is the direction in which its face is set and the screening of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms must be an ongoing process, part of a wider scrutiny of all member states – old and new – in a european union with the charter of fundamental rights at its heart. liberal democrats deplore the abuse of enlargement negotiations to reopen old wounds and animosities. the infamous beneš decrees are a good example of this. it serves no useful purpose to inflame tensions on this issue, which is why my group has tabled amendments to mr brok's report to seek to lower the temperature of the debate. the refusal of four governments – including mr murphy's – at the general affairs council this week to reach agreement on a common position on agriculture stems in part from the inadequacy of the financing package agreed in berlin. we are constrained to live within berlin's limits, but if a deal is postponed until autumn – as some propose – this would jeopardise the prospect of admitting new member states in time for the european parliament elections in 2004. we support the commission's proposals to phase-in direct payments but, as soon as enlargement is agreed, we must take forward reform of the cap. we need to shift the focus away from the producer onto the consumer, from quantity to quality. on the controversial issue of free movement of persons, i urge all member states to follow the lead of denmark, sweden, ireland and the netherlands, which have said they will apply no restrictions to free movement. there are no rational grounds for believing that enlargement will be followed by the mass migration sometimes feared by our citizens. it is precisely these fears which we, as politicians, have to tackle head on. we have a responsibility to make the case for enlargement to our electorates and we must not shrink from that challenge. the adoption of the report to be voted on tomorrow will give the green light to enlargement. the historic prospect beckons of a wider, stronger union – a bulwark for freedom and democracy in an uncertain world. let ours not be the generation which flunks this opportunity. (applause)
rapporteur. – mr president, as a general point i would first say what a pity it is that we did not use this great opportunity of enlargement to introduce a lighter, less integrative approach to european cooperation, which would be less burdensome to all concerned. instead we have the enormous weight of the imposed acquis, which grows by the day and significant elements of which are ignored even by current member states, let alone the candidate states. i would also hope that the enlargement report before this house will continue to make reference to all 13 candidates for accession. this will enable turkey's progress to be addressed. i note mr de miguel's realistic but encouraging remarks with regard to turkey. furthermore, the negotiations for a just, lasting and mutually acceptable settlement of the cyprus question, which most of us so anxiously desire, are at a very sensitive stage. both sides must be encouraged to make the necessary compromises to reach such a settlement. as rapporteur for bulgaria, i want to commend that country for the steady progress it is making towards eu membership, with its economic successes, its strategies for administrative and judicial reform, for more effectively dealing with the problems of its minorities, for tightening its borders and for fighting corruption. we now need to translate these strategies into more effective action which produces tangible results so that bulgaria will be in a position rapidly to close all the negotiating chapters with a view to accession in about 2007 or 2008. such a positive outlook, backed up by what must be well targeted, well managed european union assistance, would help sustain support for modernising governments and reformed public institutions in bulgaria – support which is frail at the moment. we need to send a positive signal to bulgaria with a clear road map for accession. i welcome commissioner verheugen's promise of additional aid and a reinforced approximation strategy.
rapporteur. – mr president, romania has made exceptional progress in recent months. the magnificent efforts by the prime minister and his team have created laudable results. nato membership in prague this autumn is now a certainty and the impact of that body of work on european union enlargement will be wholly beneficial. romania now stands at the crossroads. it is a european nation, yet european standards and our fundamental values are still not fully adhered to by all levels of society. the government's strong fight against corruption is hampered by lack of financial, human and material resources, with the inevitable knock-on effect of a low absorption rate of eu funds. thus new methods are needed to boost romania's progress in the coming months after the big bang. we must take new initiatives. it is imperative that the newly emerging political map of europe, with its plague of unhealthy nationalism, does not threaten romania's entry into the european union. if the enlargement window of opportunity starts to close, i urge the union to lead romania more swiftly through the narrowing gap of full eu membership so that she is not left languishing on the margins. romania should be guaranteed early membership even if some of the acquis communautaire is not wholly complete. surely we can find an entry date with the aim, say, of completing negotiations by the end of 2006. surely that is within our grasp. under ceaucescu, many hundreds of thousands of romanians showed incredible courage based on their deepest attachment to our core values of truth, freedom and respect for the human dignity of every individual. i recall that in bucharest in 1990 the main streets were dark, unlit and the only vehicles were driven by the secret police. last week those same streets were alive and buoyant with a massive international trade with traffic jams, shops and offices, and the bustle of normal life. romania's bloodless revolution has brought her through into the free world. she still has some way to travel to be with us here today but exceptional efforts surely deserve exceptional responses. i congratulate the commission, with romania's people, the primary architects of the country's success, for bringing her to that level of integration today. i look for new thinking and creative achievements in the months ahead to give romania the tools she needs to finish the job.
draftsman of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy. – madam president, when you stand in a derelict asbestos factory in poland and taste it on your tongue, when you hear a debate in malta about how they dispose of waste on a small island made of hard rock, and when you stand in a yard in bulgaria and see where the offenders with mental disorders are expected to exercise for one hour a day, you see some of the challenges that some of our european family have to meet as they seek to join the european union and adopt our acquis. our committee on the environment's enlargement reports have highlighted concerns on nuclear safety, stocks of obsolete pesticides, food and feed safety, habitats and wild bird protection and human rights in mental health systems. we want to see compliance with the acquis, but we understand that the acquis has standards that we are all seeking to implement. we want candidate countries to have access to advice and support from specialists and funds available to us already as member states to meet our obligations and we ask the commission to ensure that we are not asking candidate countries to meet standards that our own member states are failing to meet themselves.
draftman of the opinion of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport. – madam president, my opinion dealt largely with the technical progress of the commission's negotiations with the candidate countries on the relevant chapters, but it also called on both the council and the commission to redouble their efforts to raise awareness of public opinion. i wonder whether in their summing-up replies both minister de miguel and commissioner verheugen might refer to progress, as far as public opinion is concerned, and any further initiatives they have in mind. we all pay lip service to this – bearing in mind the referenda – but much greater practical application is required, in particular from the member states, not simply from the institutions of the european union itself. i have three thoughts concerning action in the member states. firstly, further public platforms should be given to leaders from the candidate countries, not only political but also cultural leaders – writers, film-makers, and musicians. secondly, the links between the institutions of civil society should be publicised. thirdly, something should be done to overcome the collective amnesia which was imposed by the soviet tyranny on western europe, allowing us to forget the thousand years of cultural, political and commercial links which we are now in the process of restoring.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. – madam president, as many colleagues have pointed out, the pace of enlargement varies from country to country and month by month. it is no secret that the modernisation of the agricultural industries of the candidate countries is proving to be one of the most difficult issues. clearly support under the sapard scheme is of vital importance in assisting that process. however, the take-up of this and other schemes is patchy. expectations in those countries are universally high. there is a continuing problem that these expectations may not be met, producing the inevitable political and social fall-out. in the past months i have visited poland, the czech republic, slovakia and hungary and once you get away from the main roads and railway lines it is easy to see how much has to be done. i share baroness nicholson's fear that the often superhuman efforts by the governments will not be met by flexibility from our side. may i urge that such eu operations are carried out with flexibility and tact and encourage the process rather than inhibit it.
madam president, i wish to begin by paying tribute to commissioner verheugen, because it is down to his industry and determination that we are so close to grasping the prize of the reunification of europe. credit should be given to his efforts. i should also like to echo his opening words in relation to lithuania. the decision taken by the lithuanian government in relation to the closure of the ignalina power station is an extremely brave one, as it is not in accordance with general public opinion in lithuania, and illustrates just how determined the lithuanians are to fulfil the eu entry requirements. they have moved at tremendous speed in order to catch up, and it has been very difficult for them. however, if accession were suddenly to disappear off the horizon, that decision by the lithuanian government and parliament could well rebound on them and we could find accession moving further away and not closer. it is vital to keep to the timetable and the road map. we must not allow that timetable to be eroded. if we slow down, some of the accession countries – for example, hungary – will turn elsewhere, perhaps towards the united states rather than the european union. political movements that we see within the european union could well mean that we will be unable to proceed if we miss the copenhagen summit deadline. as commissioner verheugen quite rightly said: we must take advantage of this window of opportunity before it is closed. or, as the late, great elvis presley said: "it's now or never, .... tomorrow will be too late". history will not judge us extremely well if we fail to show the leadership and courage required at this moment. that is not to suggest that we should somehow weaken our position in relation to our demands on the countries. each country must be judged on its own merit and keep to the criteria, in particular in relation to implementation and administrative capacity. let us look at individual countries. the czech republic needs to reassure us that competition policy will be in line with eu competition policy and that public administration will be reformed. latvia has to make serious advances in the reform of its judicial system and in dealing with corruption. i welcome commissioner verheugen's plans in relation to bulgaria and romania, but we must also send out a message to romania that it has to get its act together, otherwise it will seriously fall behind schedule. the brok report should be a warning to them in relation to corruption and reform of public administration. let us not forget that we have to convince the people that enlargement is in their interests. we should stop talking about the problems of enlargement and remind people that enlargement is a solution to many of those problems.
madam president, it is a measure of the ideological poverty of the european union that anyone can, with a straight face, still talk about success and the cap in the same sentence. as the common fisheries policy is widely acknowledged as having been disastrous, so too is the cap. the central fault of the cap is that it is a common policy, and it is not possible to have one policy covering sub-arctic finland, the temperate grasslands of cheshire, the wine growers of bordeaux, the arid near-subtropical vegetable growers of catalonia, or the sheep producers of the mountains of greece, much less the highly populous denmark which produces more pigs than people. but the other major fault of the cap is that it is an agricultural policy. as demonstrated during the foot-and-mouth crisis in our country, agriculture is an integral part of the rural economy. there is massive interdependence between farming and its rural infrastructure. support one part without taking into account the needs of the other and you can create damaging distortions, which is exactly what has happened. enlargement would have been an opportunity to have started with a clean sheet, but it was missed with agenda 2000's so-called reforms; and it will be missed again. now the disaster is to be imposed on the enlargement countries. this you will have cause to regret.
madam president, incoming members need to realise that their membership of the eu will not remove the great difficulties they already have in their agriculture industries. farmers already in the eu are facing terrifying difficulties. in northern ireland we are going through a grave crisis. as a result of five increases, export refunds on skimmed milk have risen from eur 0 to 650 per tonne. 55 percent of all our milk is processed as skimmed milk. milk prices have plummeted to 14.5 pence per litre, a loss of 4 pence per litre for all milk producers. only a breakthrough into the export market can save us. agriculture is facing catastrophe in europe, both inside and outside this union, and it should be at the top of the agenda in this discussion.
mr president, while fully supporting the accession of cyprus, i question whether the union is trying hard enough to bring about a settlement of the dispute. the minister says that he supports the un and is monitoring the talks, but why is he not offering the services of the council in trying to broker a solution? why are the commission and the council blocking the opening up of trade with the north? it is only the pro-active involvement of europe that will assure the two sides that union membership profoundly and radically changes the context of their mutual relationship. conflict resolution should be at the centre of the cypriot accession and the union should prove itself far more creative, and even ingenious, than it has been so far.
mr president, i am speaking specifically about the turco reports. i agree that they represent a damning indictment of the management of the structural, cohesion and ispa funds. it is simply not acceptable, for example, that there are many programmes dating from the 1980s and 1990s that have still not been closed. likewise, no disbursement of funds has been made under programmes such as urban, interreg or leader in the year in question. as the report implies, this has been nothing but a catalogue of errors. recent reports by the european court of auditors and olaf have revealed substantial holes in the commission's accounts. olaf alone has investigated cases with a value of eur 144 million this year. where has all this money gone? it is now essential that the commission starts to act with more financial probity, in order to retain what remains of its credibility. in view of the fact that 35 programmes from 1989 are still on the commission's books, nine years after payments were due to finish, it is imperative that suitable measures are introduced now to bring projects in on time and on budget. therefore, the n+2 principle should be rigorously applied across these funds, so that the european taxpayer is not left to foot the bill for projects which run on over their funding deadlines. similarly, member states are not blameless in this funding fiasco. it is amazing that reportedly over eur 100 billion remains unspent, due in large part to lack of action by national governments. the uk is one of the worst offenders in this respect. i am appalled that, for example, less than 5% of available eu funding had been taken up in my own region at the beginning of the year. these funds are not and should not be infinite. if neither the commission nor the member state can get their act together, they should be returned to where they belong – the pockets of the european taxpayer.
mr president, the enlargement of the european union is going to be the greatest project that europe takes part in during the next ten years and we have to be careful, not only how we enlarge for the sake of the present member states, but also how we deal with the countries that are coming in. i want to deal with the agricultural side because i want to see a proper reform of the common agricultural policy before enlargement takes place. what worries me is that we are not going to do that properly. we are going to get to a situation where the budget of the common agricultural policy does not fit the size of the new european union. then we will have to make cuts in places, which is perhaps not the right way to do it. i know the commission is dealing a lot with this, but we also have to look at how we get the sapard funds into enlargement states to help them build up their infrastructure, including their education systems. on a recent visit to poland i found there were lots of problems with education, especially in the rural areas where very often young children were not going on to secondary school because they stayed at home to work on the farms. we must face up to the huge number of farmers in these enlargement states and we must find some way of helping them to restructure their agriculture as and when they come into europe. i am also very concerned to avoid food coming into the european union that does not meet the high standards of our production. we have to be very clear on this. with those reservations, much as i support enlargement, we must be careful how we do it.
mr president, firstly i should like to say that this proposal was introduced earlier this year by the commission under the procedure without debate. had it not been for the initiative of one of my colleagues, mr helmer, in overturning that procedure, this house would not have had the opportunity to discuss it. let me make it very clear to the house at the outset that, recognising their ultra-peripheral status, i have no problem with special treatment for the canary islands, – my goodness, i would quite like it for my own region, but that is not very likely. this was accepted at the time of spain's accession to the european union and special tax arrangements were put in place to assist local industries. but those derogations from the rules of the single market were intended to be temporary and to be phased out. far from phasing out these measures, the commission's proposal effectively doubles the level of protection for a wide range of goods, impacting especially heavily on spirits and tobacco. the large tourist industry of the canary islands is an important outlet for these products. the proposed measures will impact negatively on liquor and cigarette manufacturers in many member states. by raising consumer prices in the canaries they may even damage the island's tourist trade. in particular they will damage gallaghers in my own constituency and imperial tobacco in nottingham, to name but two. bizarrely, as i understand it, the proposals will protect an american cigarette manufacturer in the canaries. the rapporteur says that jobs have been lost in cigarette factories in the canaries, but they have also been lost in cigarette factories across the european union. with changes in consumption and improvements in productivity, we all have industries in our own regions that suffer from overseas competition, but in the single market we do not raise protectionist taxes. the original intention was to phase out these measures. the commission's proposal is to double them. i put it to the house that a reasonable compromise is to leave the levels as they were in 2001, and i call on colleagues to support the amendments to this effect and reject the commission's proposed increases.
mr president, i am speaking not on behalf of my group or my committee, but on behalf of the british conservative delegation in the european democrat pillar within the ppe-de group. we do not support the extension of the fiscalis programme to cover direct taxes, in particular income tax and capital tax. these are areas which should remain a matter for the exclusive competence of member states. the right to tax citizens is one of the hallmarks of a government. increasing eu involvement in taxation could spell the death of the nation state. i know the response will be that this is just a technical scheme to exchange information and run seminars for tax officials, but i say it is one more step that takes the european commission and the european union closer into the tax affairs of member states. as commissioner prodi himself recently stated, very high political ambitions have often been achieved in the eu as a series of small, almost technical, steps. i suggest that this is happening with tax, in the numerous different tax initiatives and ways in which the european commission and the european union are seeking to enlarge their competence over areas of tax. i reject the technical steps that take the european union closer into the tax affairs of member states, just as i reject the ultimate objective of allowing the european union to levy taxes on individuals in the european union. democratic national governments should levy taxes. undemocratic supranational organisations should not.
mr president, as mr karas said in the first speech, the fiscalis programme currently in operation has had real benefits. it has allowed knowledge to be disseminated and it has added to the experience of those who participated in the programme. it has definitely helped the fight against fraud and in doing so has improved the workings of the internal market. it has allowed officials to adopt new administrative practices and cooperate more with each other. all of these things have been very beneficial since 1998. it has also improved mutual understanding of community tax law on indirect taxes such as vat and excise taxes. there have been exchanges of officials from the eu member states, seminars on indirect tax issues of common interest, multilateral control of excise duties, development of common professional training across the european union, including improving audit skills for the officials concerned, and, significantly, development of language training. there has also been funding for the maintenance and development of communication and information systems and schemes. overall, we are enthusiastic about the fiscalis programme and believe that it has been very successful and that it should be continued, but only in its present form. it should also be extended, but only in its present form, to the candidate countries, which could benefit very much from this programme for the objectives and the kind of things that the fiscalis programme has been carrying out. they could certainly benefit from implementing the necessary legislative, organisational, administrative and technical measures in the programme as it exists at the moment. i have stressed the notion of the programme as it exists at the moment because i agree with mrs villiers that the fiscalis programme should not be extended to direct taxation. unlike value added tax, there is little by way of a shared body of knowledge of direct taxation across the eu member states and different member states impose indirect taxation in very different ways. the fact needs to be borne in mind that the fiscalis programme as it stands has not really been properly evaluated yet and it would not, therefore, be a good idea to carry it forward on this basis. the programme as it stands at the moment has been a success. it should be continued in its present form and we should not extend it beyond its current boundaries.
mr president, first of all, as ppe-de shadow rapporteur, let me congratulate my socialist colleague, mr berenguer fuster, on an excellent piece of work which has achieved a remarkable degree of cross-party consensus within parliament and the committee. i am very pleased with this council common position document, which reads far better and more intelligibly than the initial commission proposals. it is internally consistent and incorporates some 20 first reading amendments from parliament, including several that i submitted, such as the need to cater for the electronic age and internet age by allowing for computer and disk storage of data, exemptions for telephone selling, exemptions for the travel industry for small contracts and action to ensure that the scope of the directive does not extend to the mere provision of information on products. i fully accept compromise amendment no 15 relating to transitional provisions to exempt existing brokers and also compromise amendment no 7 for a regular review of registration as opposed to my original proposal for a three-yearly review. this was originally carried by the committee in order to ensure the maintenance of high standards of probity and professional standards of the intermediaries, or brokers, as we call them in the uk. i particularly support the council proposal for information exchange between competent registration authorities and the fact that the role of the insurance undertaking is prescribed in the intermediaries' registration process, particularly for the tied intermediaries category. after much deliberation i too will oppose amendment no 2 as i realise this would pose problems to the council by considerably reducing the application of the directive. if passed, it would necessarily have to go to conciliation. i shall support compromise amendment no 16 to get rid of the best-advice principle, which would impose unacceptable burdens on the industry. i continue to support amendment no 18, which is designed to reduce the burden on the industry by ensuring that the obligation to provide information applies only when a customer requests it. in summary, this has the making of a good piece of pioneer legislation which will be an integral part of the financial services action plan and the first designed specifically for insurance brokers. it will serve as a model for other types of brokers in financial products and, not doubt, in other areas as well. this definitive measure will provide a useful service to europe's consumers in facilitating a safe and competitive pan-european insurance market with mutually recognised and acceptable standards of professional competence by using the financial passport, with only minimal standards being set, rather than prescriptive harmonisation proceedings, as some would have claimed necessary for such an undertaking. i congratulate the rapporteur. i look forward to this speedily becoming european law.
rapporteur. – madam president, the background to this report is well known, but worth repeating as it is crucial. in november 2000, the international council for the exploration of the sea (ices) warned that cod stocks in the north sea and west of scotland waters and the northern hake stocks are at serious risk of collapse. ices estimates that cod stocks in the north sea are at their lowest level since 1963 and that technical measures and tac reductions alone will not be enough to restore them to within safe limits. cod stocks in the kattegat, irish sea and west of scotland waters are in similar condition. for hake the decline in stocks has been less dramatic, but stocks are thought to be around only half of their 1980 levels. at the december 2000 fisheries council meeting, it was agreed that more long-term conservation measures were necessary in addition to tac reductions for 2001. the commission was invited to submit proposals for a multi-annual recovery plan. during 2001, the commission adopted various emergency regulations to restrict the fishing of these species and in june 2001, it issued a communication outlining its strategy for rebuilding cod and hake stocks in community and adjacent waters. the current proposed multi-annual recovery programme for cod and hake follows on from that communication. i welcome the overall approach, which includes targets for recovery of each of the stocks, total allowable catches allowing for an annual percentage increase of 30% for cod and 15% for hake, with an upper and lower limit to the permitted change in the tac of 50% from one year to the next, a system of fishing effort limitation, enhanced controls in relation to satellite tracking for vessels over 50 metres in length, position reporting, landing conditions, retentions on board and conditions for weighing and transport. the potential use of temporary closed areas for up to 60 days. i believe that successful recovery of stocks must be a priority. we must at all costs avoid a canadian-style disappearance of cod and hake from these northern waters. in canada, a cod moratorium was introduced in 1992. some 30,000 people lost their jobs, the biggest lay-off in canadian history. the cod disappeared due to a complex mix of factors, including over-fishing, and a decade later the stocks have not recovered. we cannot ignore the ecological warning signs. at the committee vote, references to hake were removed from this report. i hope colleagues will support me as rapporteur in trying to reinstate hake in this report. although there is disagreement over whether cod and hake should be treated together, the commission's approach seems to me acceptable, provided that sufficient account is taken of the specific situation of the two species. the figures and the levels of hake stocks have been questioned and we should be guided by evidence. on the measure proposed for hake, new scientific evidence may allow a relaxation in the targets and the percentage stock increase expected. we need a package of measures which first of all work and secondly minimise the pain to the sector. finally, while the success of the recovery plans must be the priority, an annual review of their progress and socio-economic impact should be undertaken. however, if recovery is not achieved the outcome will be increased socio-economic hardship. in any event, without fish there cannot be fisheries. i ask colleagues to vote for amendments nos 2, 4, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15 and 16 and against amendments nos 1, 3, 5, 9 and 14.
mr president, i shall start by also congratulating mrs stihler on her excellent report and on the excellent speech she made this evening in this house. everyone in this house is aware that fish stocks are in sharp decline across the eu. that is why the commission has come to us with a radical new package of proposals for reform of the common fisheries policy. that is why we are facing an 18% cut in overall gross tonnage in the eu fleet, with the attendant massive impact that this will have on jobs in many economically challenged and remote peripheral areas of the community. however, we also understand that the two species at most serious risk of collapse are cod and northern hake. there is at least no doubt about the state of cod stocks. i would admit that there are, however, some doubts about the state of hake stocks. the international council for the exploration of the sea (ices) claims that hake stocks are on the verge of collapse. other independent scientists claim the stocks are still at sustainable levels and they challenge the ices findings. as mrs mckenna has pointed out in her speech this evening, we are pledged in this house to apply the precautionary principle whenever such doubts exist. in these circumstances, i would appeal to this house to reinstate hake in the commission's recovery plan until such time as the scientific evidence can be analysed and verified in exactly the way mr varela suanzes-carpegna has called for this evening. yesterday, as we all know, a substantial number of member states voiced their opposition to certain aspects of the commission's proposals for reforming the cfp during the fisheries council. they want public aid to be used for building new vessels, they want open access to community waters, they support short-term profits over long-term sustainability, they oppose change, they support the status quo. theirs is surely a policy of despair. we cannot continue as we have done in the past. if we do so, it will not be only cod and hake that disappear, our fishing industry will disappear as well.
mr president, this proposal highlights the desperate state of some of our fish stocks and underlines why it is so important that the commission and the council get the reform of the cfp right. there must be no bowing to political pressures. they must ensure that the objective of sustainable fisheries is at the core of fisheries management. while i accept that recovery plans for hake must be specific to that fishery, i do not believe that hake should be excluded from the proposal. as to the details of the proposal, i have some concerns to highlight. firstly, the commission must take greater account of mixed fisheries which are impacted by recovery plans. crucially i am not convinced that the commission has learned the lessons from the dangers of displacing effort, as we saw in the north of scotland last year. the commission must ensure that scientific advice is reliable and verifiable, not just in determining what areas should be closed but determining the effect of such closures. the removal of ceilings on financial contributions under the fifg is to be welcomed. but the commission has failed to propose a system which ensures that there is equal treatment of fishermen subject to recovery measures and that it is not promoting unfair competition between fishermen from different member states. i hope the commission will heed the committee's amendment calling for community funding which is not dependent on cofinancing to compensate fishermen under these plans. safety is of paramount importance. while public aid for modernisation and renewal should not be a bottomless pit, it should be available for improvements to safety. a combination of ageing vessels and days-at-sea restrictions could be a lethal combination. it is vital that safety be taken into account when measuring the impact of recovery plans and, for that matter, fisheries management in general.
madam president, firstly i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on a very courageous report. this is going to be very painful for all fishermen, because it will mean that there will be many reductions in the catch and many job losses. she refers to that in her report. there are some measures there to help fishermen. one thing we can be sure of is that fish do not recognise any border or boundary. we must also recognise that this is a cod and hake report. i want to make sure that we urge all colleagues to vote for hake to be reintroduced to this report. otherwise we will be sitting here in the not very distant future saying that the hake stocks have been reduced so dramatically that we need even more draconian measures in order to reinstate them. the rapporteur said that hake stocks have been reduced by 50% since 1980, so we must take measures to make sure that they improve. we also have to accept that when fish are swimming in the sea they do not separate themselves out neatly, so when you go out to fish one particular species you cannot always be sure that is the only species you catch. we have to take a wider look at all the conservation measures. we must in particular find a solution to discards of fish, tradable quotas when you come ashore or whatever it may be. there must be a way to stop discarding healthy fish, because the stocks are not there and we must make sure that they are built up again. we have only to look at what has happened in canada to see that if you carry on fishing then there is going to be no fish for anybody. it is also wrong for one particular member state to exert enormous political pressure to try and have hake removed from this report and then try to get more fish for itself. at the end of the day it does not matter what nationality we are. if there are no fish, there are no stocks and nobody will be able to fish. we have to be sure that these measures are put in place. i again congratulate the rapporteur and ask that we all vote for what was originally a cod and hake report – and make sure that we do have a cod and hake report.
mr president, because of the various discussions that have taken place the rapporteur has had an unusually long time to work on this report and she is to be warmly thanked for the efforts that she has made. i was interested to discover that the united kingdom appears to be the second largest producer of ethyl alcohol and, along with other producers, is of course concerned at increasing imports but rather static community demand. we know that imports into the community have tariff concessions which have been agreed by the council of ministers. the industry tells me that there are subsidy regimes in the exporting countries which naturally they do not view very favourably. our producers are also concerned about the prospect of duty-free entry from the 48 least-developed countries. we understand these concerns, but i do not believe that removing the prohibition on state aid provisions, which are provided for in amendments nos 7 and 19, is a solution to the problem. i would certainly hope that these will be opposed and i will be voting against them. on the positive side, the specific measures proposed by the commission are welcome. they are certainly preferable to an interventionist organisation and i welcome the change in nomenclature that the rapporteur has introduced. i hope that the provisions are non-discriminatory, that they will provide for the continuance of the trade without any great hindrance, and that our competitiveness will not be too much affected by imports. the proposals do involve a minimum degree of administration and documentation. i hope that parliament will reject amendments nos 7 and 19, in which case i will be able to support the report. i cannot say that this is the view of all the members of the pse group, but it is certainly the view of some of us.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. – mr president, i want to thank mrs hedkvist petersen for putting together what is a balanced compromise that reflects interests across parliament. speaking as the rapporteur for my own committee – the legal affairs committee – i can say that we were in favour of the commission's proposal for a voluntary agreement and felt that the overall package achieved what mrs hedkvist petersen wanted. it will save lives earlier than any other proposal. it also takes very seriously the need to improve design standards for cars. but – and this is a crucial issue she did not mention – it allows the industry, and everyone else involved, to tackle the issue on a broad front because we know that simply making the front end of cars more resilient in the event of a crash is a second option. we want to avoid collisions with vulnerable road users altogether through accident avoidance measures within the vehicle itself. remember that anti-lock braking systems fitted as standard will be part of this package. we also have to look at road design, user education and many other things. this has to be a concerted effort. i want to talk about design standards because this is important. i am an automotive engineer by background; i have seen the test laboratories; i have talked to the engineers about the problems of achieving more pedestrian-friendly cars. this is not a simple issue. some groups have been guilty of gross over-simplification about the problems involved. mrs hedkvist petersen implied that the industry was not taking it very seriously, but i know from my visits that it is. moving forward, she is right to say that we must look at a broad range of test measures. i call upon the industry this morning to join with the commission to put together a team of all the best talents in engineering and design, together with all other interested persons, to come up with the best tests possible, given today's technology and not the 1998 technology on which the current eevc tests are based.
mr president, i celebrate the fact that this report brings nearer the prospect of safer car fronts and therefore fewer pedestrian, cyclist and motorcyclist deaths. cars remain excessively and unnecessarily dangerous. safer car fronts could save 2 000 lives a year at a cost of only eur 30 or gbp 20 a car. i agree it should be possible to turn off daytime running lights. indeed, i would want them banned in the united kingdom because i think they reduce the visibility of motorbikes and make motorists feel superior and invulnerable. i am delighted at the ban on bullbars, not only when cars are sold, but also an as after-sales purchase. may i congratulate not only the rapporteur, but also my own colleague, hermann vermeer, for his excellent work in leading the search for a compromise and breaking the early deadlock between the two sides of the house, one insisting that voluntary agreements should never have a role, and the other saying that legislation should never have a role. i regret the attempt by the car industry lobby to discredit the eevc tests. the report properly reminds us that eevc is the institution which is at the forefront of research in road safety, with wide experience in the field of pedestrian protection in particular. while the eevc and other test methods should continue to develop with new technologies, currently there are no equivalent tests, so those tests are for the moment standard. just as i do not think that it is useful to be theological about voluntary agreements or legislation, nor do i think that it is useful to be theological about a particular kind of test, but there are no different standards at the moment.
mr president, i should like to congratulate my colleague, mrs vlasto, on her report. the lisbon agenda is an important one for the economy and future of europe and the european union. a great deal of promise was held out at that time and there is a lot of very positive rhetoric about the process and the things that we want to do. but there is a lot of talk and spin, rather than substance. many of the projects of substance in the process are a continuation of those schemes, such as liberalising the energy markets, which were in hand before. i note with keen interest comments such as in paragraph 14, which calls on the member states to reduce the tax burden on employment. i wish that my own member state had followed that advice instead of putting up the tax on employment in the last budget. i support warmly the comments about stressing the importance for small businesses of a genuine opening of the markets in telecommunications, energy, postal services and transport. this is a worthy aspiration. we are working hard to do it but we are not making fast enough or satisfactory enough progress. i also welcome the call from the commission for a study on the impact on various kinds of enterprises for each legislative proposal. the commissioner knows well of my concern about business impact costs and the proposals. that is why i am also concerned about parliament and our propensity to put down amendments which add costs. that is why my amendment is about examining the costs of our amendments.
mr president, i add my congratulations to mrs vlasto for her report, which was adopted unanimously in the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy. it deals with the issue of the lisbon european council which had the objective of making the european union the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world and link that to the feira council which endorsed a european charter for small enterprises. clearly, as mrs vlasto said, small enterprises are one of the keys to success in the european economies. i should like to make three points. firstly, the report details the very low levels of investment in research and development – 1.19% of gdp inside the european union. this is particularly acute in industrial sectors dominated by smes. i would like us to look at the idea, at a european level, of research institutes paid for by a levy on the relevant industries, which the japanese have used so successfully in getting innovation in research and development in such industrial sectors. secondly, we need to look at the issue of better regulation to simplify and streamline our regulations. i have no problem with imposing burdens on business to improve, for example, the environment, but we need value for money. one of the recent studies in the united kingdom suggested that the end of vehicle life directive, for example, cost gbp 400 million a year and benefits the environment only to the tune of gbp 100 million a year. if that is correct, that is something that should not have been adopted into law in the european union. so we need to be aware of the impact of our legislation on business and jobs. therefore we support the chichester amendment in principle and will be voting in favour of it. thirdly, we must look more widely at whether smes that serve local markets only should have the same burdens imposed on them as large companies exporting around the european union and outside. in many cases local knowledge can suffice to protect consumers. regulations are needed when the goods and services from anonymous companies are remote from the consumer both geographically and in terms of local knowledge.
mr president, i would just like to address this question of better regulation. i congratulate the commission on its proposals, particularly its recommendations on economic impact assessments. the commission's proposals will only be effective if the other two institutions – the council and parliament – follow suit. mr chichester's amendment seeks to alter paragraph 25, which was my original amendment in committee, calling upon parliament in essence to carry out its own economic impact assessments. i believe that we should do this at second reading, once we have received the common position from the council and we know what parliament's amendments were at first reading. we should have an independent unit seeking to assess exactly what the impact of the legislation is, with a rigorous cost-benefit analysis, as mr ford has said, albeit not to substitute for decision-making, but to ensure that all decisions taken by parliament are informed. it may well be that even if we recognise there are costs involved, we feel the legislation is very important. but parliament has to follow the example of the commission on that, otherwise it will not work. indeed, so should the council. the council is very good at adding amendments to legislation without actually working out how much they are going to cost. that is a vital challenge to parliament. finally, the lisbon agenda will only work if we focus on the skills issue. lifelong learning has to be meaningful, not just a slogan. we have to make sure our workforce has the proper skills to be able to develop our economy, because our competitive advantage is largely skills-based and that is where the future of the european economy lies.
mr president, i should like to thank mr belder for his outstanding work on this report. it is an extremely comprehensive document that involved a lot of research. the task of the shadow rapporteurs has been relatively easy because we have agreed with a lot of the content and we have been looking for ways to further improve the direction of his text. i want to pick up a few specific points in relation to issues that he has kindly incorporated in the final report. firstly, it is correct to emphasise, as he has done, the remarkable opportunities offered to disabled people in society. the digital revolution will improve the quality of their lives and access to services. that is something we need to try to exploit together in the most effective way possible. those of us who have sat with someone who is partially sighted and seen them use a website realise that there should be better design, and it would not cost anything. it is a question of education, training and best practice. that is something the commission is working on, but we need to emphasise it. it is something where public authorities can demonstrate best practice and set a lead for others. as an integral part of that, it is crucial to ensure that we have the instruments in place to benchmark and give access ratings to websites, because public comparison and encouragement of best practice will stimulate everybody to move forward. that is something the commission is also working on, but we are right to emphasise that in our report. that, of course, links in to the question of commercial services. the users' groups i have talked to – in the united kingdom in particular – have emphasised the importance of encouraging commercial operators and commercial providers of services to make their websites user-friendly for disabled people. those crucial commercial services – such as banks, home-shopping services, access to transport – being able to order transport and look at timetables – need to be made accessible to disabled users. they will really help them engage with this new revolution. having those benchmarks and star ratings will encourage commercial firms to pick them up and to make their websites more accessible which will really deliver the sorts of benefits we are looking for. i am keen to encourage both of those aspects, but overall this report is extremely worthwhile. we will not support all the amendments on this side, but that is more an aspect of detail. the overall thrust of this report is very commendable and i encourage the house to give it its full support.
mr president, i want to echo mr harbour's congratulations to mr belder. he really has worked not only very hard, but also in a very open, intelligent and approachable way. i think we are seeing the fruits of that method of working in this report. it has been a great privilege to be part of that. indeed, access at its best is the great equaliser, the great force for democracy. that is why this report is so important: it is providing a mechanism in terms of active citizenship, which is becoming more and more important, for instance electronic democracy. we are moving towards electronic voting; methods of being engaged as an active citizen more and more depend on access. but the reason why i wanted to be shadow rapporteur on this report, and to support mr belder, was that, for disabled people, access to work depends more and more on access to the web. mr harbour is quite right that much of this does not depend on money, or at least not on huge sums of money, and mr belder has been absolutely correct to enter into wide consultation with disabled people themselves. they already are in a position over and over again to explain to us what is needed, what will work and what will help them. i want to draw attention particularly to paragraph 4 of the motion for a resolution, and i shall quote from it, because it says that disabled people not only should be able to read web pages, but also should be enabled to manage the content of web pages. in other words, they are not only passive receivers of information, but also serious contributors. that is absolutely important. my final point is that this is all part of the lisbon agenda, making europe e-friendly and e-workable, and it is going to mean that if this principle is carried through into other areas of work, disabled european union citizens will be able to participate on much more equal terms in this respect than we have seen to date.
mr president, on a point of order on the same issue, there is a distinctly unpleasant odour permeating this building, not just in this chamber, but outside as well. last month the quaestors told us that the reason for this smell then was that an animal had died in one of the drains. are we expected to accept the same excuse this month? it is not acceptable. we should not be asked to work under these conditions. staff should not be asked to work under these conditions. it is high time something was done. (applause)
mr president, i just wish to declare that, due to a financial interest which has been registered with the parliamentary authorities, i will not be participating in this vote.
mr president, what is ridiculous is that this chamber, which is a political organisation, calls a state by an acronym. however, it seems to me the existing text provides an interesting balance. certainly the title in the english version says "fyrom" and then the body of the paragraph sensibly says "macedonia". surely we can satisfy everybody with this text. let us stick to this text.
in writing. - i welcome the report drawn up by mr brok which highlights the real progress made in the enlargement process. the possibility now exists that ten new member states will join the european union in 2004 and take part in the european elections. it also seems likely that romania and bulgaria will join europe in 2007. what we need now is to show real political will and to accept compromises on all fronts so as not to lose any of the momentum. the copenhagen summit has all the necessary characteristics to be a truly historic summit.
in writing. - mr olsson has already mentioned in his report the economic and political importance of agriculture in all the candidate countries to the european union and the structural changes needed in their rural areas. in addition, it is crucial to ensure that agriculture and the agri-food industry are in line with eu standards, particularly with regard to hygiene and veterinary standards. however, we must also accept that many candidate countries have far less intensive farming methods than ours and give more importance to rural development. in order to send a clear positive signal of our support for enlargement, we should give the candidate countries equal voice in the discussions on the future of agricultural policy. we should also focus on the problem of direct payments and the project of gradual introduction of direct payments, which should not be a stumbling block to enlargement. while accepting that the gradual introduction of direct payments would avoid a sudden excessive inflow of cash, which would result in overproduction, such a policy would also mean unequal treatment of the new member states during the ten-year transitional period, which would be very discouraging for them. the eu should make it clear that in the long term there can only be one common agricultural policy for all member states, with all participants starting on an equal footing.
in writing. - i welcome this report 'pedestrian protection: the european automotive industry's commitment' which calls for a voluntary agreement on road safety and pedestrian protection in order to strengthen the binding nature of legislation in the future. the report has made a significant step forward in the consensus reached between the car industry and citizens on key issues such as standards for buffer barriers and pedestrian-safe car fronts. hopefully these agreements will soon be accompanied by a significant reduction in accidents involving pedestrians. fortunately, these measures will be implemented as soon as possible. however, we must be careful not to be complacent in order to ensure that in the long term we have more binding and more transparent legislation. voluntary agreements are an effective tool for making changes with diligence. however, these are by no means long-term solutions to address an issue as important as the protection of europe's citizens.
in writing. - i voted against amendment no 9 despite my sympathy for the problem raised; however, there is a real cost to internet access, and if the principle of free access for the user is to be further explored, the question must be clarified first: who will bear the costs? this amendment introduces an extremely broad problem which is also of major importance in a report dealing with a specific dimension of internet access.
commission. – mr president, the commission welcomes this timely debate and shares the deep concerns that have been raised by belarus' appalling record on human rights and democracy. the eu and its member states have supported all osce moves to keep the osce assistance mission in belarus open and running. the eu has issued a number of statements, either in the osce in vienna or from the presidency in madrid, strongly condemning the action by the belarus authorities to suppress the activities of the osce office in minsk. via its delegation in vienna or during the council working group meetings, the commission has been very active in the discussions on the osce position vis-à-vis belarus. the closure of the osce mission in minsk would put in jeopardy many of the mission's activities, notably the observance of belarus' commitments under osce human rights rules. if the mission is closed, this reporting will no longer be possible. the case of mr andrew carpenter is just one illustration of the methods used by the belarus authorities to gag osce observers working in their country in full compliance with osce and diplomatic rules. the commission has made it clear, in its contacts with the belarus authorities, that it regards the osce assistance and monitoring group as a significant test case for the authorities' approach to the development of democracy, civil society and human rights in belarus. if belarus intends to join the democratic family of european nations and to establish fully-fledged relations with the eu at all levels, it should demonstrate this by accepting the mandate and the services of the amg. we shall follow developments very closely and if need be propose further action to support the osce resolve.
mr president, we are here to debate the situation in syria and in particular the changes that have taken place since president bashir al assad took over from his father some three years ago. following the arrest of mr riad al-turk, a 72 year-old lawyer and secretary-general of the banned communist party, there are suggestions that syria might be about to enter a new phase of repression, following a gradual thawing of relations with the west and a desirable but limited opening-up of the syrian economy to market forces. although no expert, i would certainly support the calls for all prisoners of conscience to be freed, in syria and elsewhere. it is vital that the syrian government understands the need to distinguish between those who advocate violence or rebellion and those who simply advocate political change. i also fully support the paragraphs in the motion calling for the syrian authorities to ensure that detainees are not tortured in prison. human rights cannot be detached from wider political developments in the region. only yesterday i was privileged to hear the very fine speech by the king of neighbouring jordan, an exemplary role model of moderation and wisdom. for many years syria sponsored terrorism in both israel and turkey and was the main state to reject any compromise solution to the israeli-palestinian dispute based on land for peace. there are signs that the end of the cold war and the new geopolitical realities of the region have forced the adoption of a more reasonable and even pragmatic foreign policy by damascus. syrian leaders need to recognise the importance of the recent shift in international opinion and, in particular, the widespread support for a viable democratic palestinian state and to work with – not against – the international community for a comprehensive regional settlement, including the return of the golan heights. only then, i believe, will syria be able to fully develop its potential as a nation and to offer its people the peace and prosperity which they truly deserve.
mr president, i recently represented the group of the party of european socialists at the socialist international asia-pacific committee in manila, where we had a first-hand opportunity to learn of the increasingly repressive regime in malaysia. the government has used the tragic events of 11 september as an excuse for a crackdown on peaceful democratic opponents of the current regime who have no connections with either al-qa'ida or any terrorist or fundamentalist groups. the internal security act, the emergency public order and prevention of crime ordnance and the dangerous drugs special prevention measures act all allow for detention without trial. it is important that pressure is put on the malaysian government by the council, the commission and parliament to release those held under these laws, to repeal them and to fully restore the right to a fair and public trial and respect for human rights in that country.
mr president, i have some sympathy with mr sacrédeus. i am opposed to the death penalty. it needs to be abolished throughout the world, save possibly in time of war. i myself in this house appealed to president fontaine last year to write to the us federal authorities to protest against the death penalty for the right-wing terrorist timothy mcveigh. yet i confess i voted against placing this issue on the agenda. i am not convinced of its urgency in the light of the fact that in south korea the government of kim dae-jung has not allowed any death sentences to be carried out since he took office in february 1998. in taiwan, as the resolution itself states, there has been a recent reform in the penal code abolishing the mandatory death penalty for various violent crimes, while the minister of justice has stated that this is the first step towards abolishing capital punishment within the next three years. in japan there has been a diet members' league for the abolition of the death penalty since 1993. in one sense i am almost amused that the resolution welcomes its creation nine years on. it almost warrants an entry in the guinness book of records as one of the most belated welcomes in history, and i confidently expect in the future to hear in one of our resolutions that mafeking has been relieved. the league for the abolition of the death penalty has 113 members from all parties in both houses in japan, representing almost one sixth of mps. last year, only two death sentences were carried out and the government has announced that it will promote a new law that will create the possibility for judges to substitute life without parole for the death penalty for capital crimes. nevertheless, now that the matter is on the agenda, we will vote in favour of the resolution, of course, but maybe in future we can focus on those countries around the world where the carrying out of death sentences is virtually or actually a daily event.
mr president, in relation to the last debate, i cannot resist noting that commissioner liikanen did not thank those european union football teams who have made a thankless contribution to helping decrease the likelihood of transmitting foot-and-mouth disease from south korea by departing from the competition early. speaking on behalf of the socialist group on the resolution on nepal, we have a situation where maoist rebels are threatening a very fragile constitutional monarchy, and the situation is in danger of fast sliding into a civil war. several thousand people have died and hundreds have been arrested. the way forward is clear: the government must ensure respect for human rights and internal law. the alleged massacres of 500 maoist guerrillas in may, if it is true, will only make the situation worse. we must provide the means from the european union to try and find a peaceful solution to the current conflict, and the finance to help rebuild the economy, in particular in the rural areas. the government of nepal itself must restore the rule of law and order and there is a need to set up an independent investigation into the allegations against the security forces.
mr president, on a point of order, in the early hours of last thursday morning, a bus carrying 43 school children from largs academy in ayrshire, scotland, was involved in a tragic accident near the french village of bierre-les-semur, near dijon in burgundy. sadly, a 15-year-old girl, katherine fish, was killed. one of the teachers accompanying the party lost an arm. several pupils were seriously injured and are still undergoing treatment in hospital in semur-en-auxios and dijon. those who were less seriously injured have now been flown home to scotland on a specially chartered plane. i am sure that the other meps from scotland would wish to join me in expressing our deep shock at this tragic accident and our great debt of gratitude to the mayor of bierre-les-semur, michel neugnot, and to the emergency services, medical staff and residents of that area. they acted with enormous concern, sympathy and humanity in caring for these pupils and teachers in the aftermath of the accident and in supporting the many parents from scotland who rushed to be with their children. the people of scotland were deeply touched by the kindness and decency of these good people, many of whom volunteered to provide help and comfort to the crash victims. i hope this house will join with me in thanking sincerely all those who opened their hearts to the courageous pupils who were involved in that accident. we wish those who were injured a speedy recovery and send our deepest sympathy to the parents and relatives of katherine fish. (applause)
mr president, on a point of order, i should like to speak briefly about the american position on the international criminal court. we should be grateful to our american allies for the enormous contribution they have made to peace-keeping operations in europe. we should recognise, as america recognises, that one of the primary functions of the nation state is to protect the rights of its citizens in its own courts and we should respect the americans' view that their ability to exercise that responsibility would be prejudiced if they allowed their soldiers or other american citizens to appear before that court.
mr president, on a point of order, i too would like to distance myself along with my colleague, roger helmer, from mr de rossa's comments regarding the international criminal court and the fact that today it became operational in the hague. the rome statute is flawed, as it would allow political mischief against american troops and political leaders. it would make peace and reconciliation much more difficult, as no longer could guerrilla leaders or dictators be given any kind of guarantee or immunity from prosecution after a peace and reconciliation process. it is interesting that only some 70 countries have signed the rome statute. russia and china – and nobody has criticised russia and china on the other side of the house – have also refused to sign the statute for good reasons. surely, ad hoc tribunals such as those in former yugoslavia or rwanda are a much better solution.
mr president, the amazing thing about this report is that it includes the phrase "the territory of the european union now constitutes a single area without frontiers as regards roads". it seems therefore to have escaped the attention of the author of this startling claim that the uk does have a frontier with the rest of the european continent. it is called the english channel, or la manche, if you prefer. it may not be a road frontier, but the 22 miles of sea at its narrowest point does make a great deal of difference. you might have also noticed that we drive on the left and that there are certain other differences in the road systems in the uk. we have different commercial systems and a different tempo of life. accordingly, we have evolved our own system of controls. they work after a fashion and, while we thank the rapporteur for working on the system of convergence plus freedom, which gives member states the freedom to set their own rules, we do not need your freedom. we are quite capable of setting our own rules and we are quite happy to have our truck drivers abide by yours. therefore we do not need your convergence either and we do not need harmonization.
mr president, we all recognise the need to cut greenhouse gases and we all want to see policies on cleaner fuels. the question is how we can achieve these objectives. in my opinion, the commission's proposals on promoting the use of biofuels for transport are not necessarily the best way of achieving those objectives. firstly, by restricting the scope of the directive to biofuels, we could hinder rather than help achieve our overall environmental objectives. we need a broader-based strategy to cover all renewable and carbon-beneficial fuels. we need to cut carbon emissions quickly and as cheaply as possible. secondly, mandatory targets in the first instance are too restrictive. member states need to be encouraged to negotiate targets in line with their own particular circumstances and the environmental performance of fuels suitable to their geographical areas. we should also bear in mind that many high-energy biofuels may be better used in heat and power production rather than transport – another reason for allowing member states to develop their own biofuel strategy. in any case, if we do get agreement on reduced rates of fuel duty for biofuels, that would make mandatory targets less necessary. so i agree with the compromise position which has been outlined this evening, which calls for indicative targets with the commission able, at a later date, to introduce mandatory targets if we feel progress is not being made. i would warn colleagues about some of the remarks that have been made about security of supply. i endorse what mr linkohr has just said. we may well end up needing to import many of these biofuels. brazil and the united states have competitive advantages – lower land values and certainly a better climate. therefore, we could end up being protective of our biofuel industry and replacing one form of agricultural policy with another one. that is the last thing we want to achieve because, in many areas, i suspect this is an agricultural policy not an industrial policy, and, of course, we must not underestimate the importance of genetic modification in meeting the biofuels targets that we require.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism. – mr president, i should like to say at the outset that i totally agree with the rapporteur that the current backlog of funding is completely unacceptable and that urgent action is now required to salvage the situation. in my opinion, drawn up on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, i sought to give these regulations the necessary flexibility to make them viable in three areas: in terms of enlargement, effective competition, and accountability. with 2004 very much in mind, it is vital that we address the issues of slow response and delays to the implementation of the existing tens projects. until member states understand and react to strategic transport needs as covered by the tens programme and make the necessary financial commitment, we shall find ourselves in a constant round of review and argument as to the financial requirements in this regard. on a personal note, i feel that the commission proposal does not represent a level playing field approach since, by extending the increase of a possible 20% of project cost merely to certain modes, we are missing out on the chance for economic growth which is vital to the cohesion of an enlarged union. i believe it is necessary to allow this increased amount of funding to be used to deal with the problems, wherever bottlenecks occur on the ground, regardless of transport mode, not according to the commission theory of certain modes being better than others. however, most importantly, this funding must be effectively spent and transparently accountable and in this respect i warmly welcome the rapporteur's proposal for increased financial probity. i would particularly like to commend to the house the rapporteur's emphasis on the n+2 principle and the management committee of representatives of member states. if projects cannot be completed within a reasonable time-scale, then the commission should have the right to demand repayment of any assistance given. otherwise money will continue to be wasted or stagnate whilst europe's transport networks suffer.
mr president, we share the concerns about the major delays facing these projects, which have been claimed to be priority projects. in connection with some of the amendments adopted in committee, we welcome the granting of candidate countries the right to observe proceedings which concern them and their country. we also welcome the acceptance of the compromise solution of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy regarding energy products. amendments were also accepted on including waterway projects and linking the allocation of funds to the reduction of traffic growth and air pollution. we did, however, vote against the report in committee because of a number of outstanding concerns, which we will try to address tomorrow in a series of amendments and requests for split votes. these include the demand that in a new post-2006 financial framework more money should be allocated to tens. we are not convinced that should be the case. we also have concerns about the inclusion of telecoms projects. in connection with penalties or claw-back, our view is that the report should follow the text of the bradbourn report on tens and demand that if projects are not substantially complete after 15 years, they should be taken off the list. finally, i have a strong concern that the reference to the use of private capital could be claimed to be, or inferred to be, an obligation to use private capital. we will be asking for a split vote in order to isolate these words, to prevent such an inference.
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has been working. as mr färm has stressed, this debate is intended to prepare the joint meeting between the european parliament, the council and the commission before the council's first reading of the 2003 budget. the main areas of concern are agriculture and fisheries, but the resources for the common foreign and security policy and administrative expenditure will also play a major role. the commission's preliminary draft budget for agriculture is over eur 2 billion below the ceiling. i would like to stress again that this is of course very good in principle, because in agriculture there must always be room for the unexpected. i thank mr färm for the report on the 2003 budget for the conciliation procedure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that can be taken into account in the autumn. i would also like to point out the sharp change in the euro-dollar exchange rate compared with the commission's preliminary draft. we had expected a euro-dollar exchange rate of 0.88 cents to the euro. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the current trend in the euro-dollar exchange rate alone therefore results in additional expenditure of between eur 400 and 500 million. perhaps a word on veterinary expenditure, because it has been critically noted here that it is going down according to the commission's proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the margin must be available for that. if necessary, this line would be extended. the commission will be presenting a letter of amendment to the fisheries agreement in the autumn. i would like to point out once again - not on category 4 but on fisheries as a whole - that the commission is now also going to put forward a proposal for the reform of the fisheries policy, which will add eur 32 million to the budget heading for a survey programme and the corresponding measures, so that a total of eur 59 million would be needed from the flexibility reserve for fisheries policy next year - and specifically for fleet reduction. a few words on the common foreign and security policy. i thank the european parliament for welcoming the fact that the funds are to be increased here, particularly for the police mission in bosnia, which will begin later this year. i would also like to see an agreement within the mediation on how to ensure greater financial security in the future. the commission had put forward the proposal for a specific flexibility reserve. the council could not agree to this. i note that the european parliament favours the second best proposal and agrees to use the emergency reserve more for such crisis management tasks. perhaps then an agreement can be reached in the conciliation procedure. i am very brief on the subject of foreign policy. i can already announce that the commission is preparing supplementary and amending budget no 4 for this year to use the margin of eur 70 million still available in foreign policy. the council and parliament last year left this amount in the margin and said that it should be activated only when more detailed information on a programme for afghanistan was available. this will be presented to you shortly. a word on the question of the means of payment as a whole. mr färm had also raised the question of whether an agreement on the means of payment could not be reached now. i think it is too early, because of the issues in the field of agricultural policy and not least because of the importance of the euro-dollar exchange rate for the whole area of means of payment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. this means that more information is needed on the implementation of the 2002 budget, which will of course be available at the end of the financial year. the aim of your report, mr podestà, is to provide a better forecast of the necessary funds and, consequently, to ensure a better alignment with the implementation plans for the current financial year. i would like to thank you very much for your report. but i think that there is still a need for a thorough discussion in the committee on budgets about what the target is. we have a budget of commitment appropriations at european level, and this means that there are always outstanding payment commitments. ral, the restes à liquider, cannot be equated with late payments. let me put it this way: a large part of the european funds is for infrastructure expenditure, for investment. investments cannot be made in the same year as the commitment appropriations are committed. let me take the example of the transeuropean networks: if the commitment appropriations in this area had to be implemented within one year, only studies could be drawn up, but the real projects could not be co-financed. that's why there's always a build-up of payment obligations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the use of the funds for payments in the field of foreign policy was much higher last year than in the past. the administrative expenditure is an important point. it has also been through all the debates on the 2003 budget so far. the difficulty is that the financial planning did not provide for the preparation of the institutions for enlargement, although there is agreement that the institutions must take measures to be administratively prepared for enlargement at least six months before the actual date of enlargement. the commission had provided in the preliminary draft budget an amount covering these measures for both the commission and the other institutions. the council has now prepared a decision for the first reading, which the commission cannot support at all. the council intends to allow itself an increase of 7% in administrative expenditure, and if certain measures, such as the translation costs of the acquis communautaire, are added, the council proposes for itself a growth rate of 12% compared with 2003 and finances this by reducing the corresponding growth rate for the commission. this is a very unfair proposal and one which the commission cannot accept. i hope that the conciliation will be able to agree to leave this point open for the time being, including the interesting proposals from the european parliament. the commission has no choice but to prepare the use of the flexibility instrument. i would like to say a few words about amending and supplementary budget no 3: i thank mrs buitenweg and mr podestà for their support for the proposal. this will put the entire surplus in the 2002 budget and, above all, will also authorize the posts needed by the economic and social committee to take over from august the work which will be entrusted to the economic and social committee as a result of the expiry of the ecsc treaty. i hope that the council, in the conciliation procedure - it cannot hear me now, but i had the opportunity to say this yesterday in denmark - is open to the arguments of the european parliament, because the mood and openness of the conciliation procedure shape the whole course and the whole atmosphere of the budgetary discussions.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. – mr president, from the point of view of the committee on foreign affairs one of our priorities has to be to ensure that our delegations in other member states are properly looked after, in particular in relation to security. in view of deconcentration we want to ensure there is a proper infrastructure in place for our delegations. secondly, we need to ensure that we have a proper civilian crisis management arrangement. in relation to kosovo, we are concerned about the cuts being proposed and we need more information as to why they are necessary. if it is simply a case of how we upfronted our money, then that clearly is less of a problem. on enlargement, as mr färm has already indicated, capacity is a key element that we must work on in the next 12 months. i am encouraged by the commitment to greater cross-border activity, but i remain very doubtful about the way in which tacis is currently being used. finally, we must be aware that there is always the possibility of the need for major intervention in the middle east, and i would love to know where the money would come from.
mr president, let us not lose sight of the fact that the färm report is about giving parliament some guidelines for the conciliation that will take place on 19 july. if this year's conciliation is anything like last year's then i for one have no desire to attend. i can find something far better to do on a friday than sit there facing the council. we make our case on the three areas of discussion and the council then ignores everything. those three areas are agriculture, fisheries and cfsp. as regards agriculture we can make the points made by our colleagues in the committee on agriculture, especially the priorities which they see for agriculture, and we can talk about category 2 and the cfsp. i would like to pick up a point made by commissioner schreyer – and this is what i heard through the english interpretation, not the finnish interpretation – when she said that eur 59 million would be needed and the flexibility instrument would have to be used. one point is that we do not yet have a common fisheries policy. if and when we do have one, that will be a problem for next year. however, we still have the problem of the eur 27 million and i await with interest to see what the council will do with that sum on 19 july. once we know the council's intentions, then we can make some decision as to what to do ourselves. the third aspect is the cfsp. as mr titley said, we will be supportive of a lot of the things that have been mentioned, but the increase of eur 10 million in the cfsp means that something else in category 4 has to give. that is a dilemma for us. there are areas where i would hope we can get decisions on 19 july, which makes it worthwhile for me at least to go. that will be on category 5 and probably as regards the category 4 flexibility instrument if there is going to be such a thing. it is obvious that the council will never agree to a new flexibility instrument, but if we can get some agreement on using the existing emergency reserves in a similar way for category 4, which would be by a codecision procedure, we may make some headway. but category 5 is the big area. it is obvious that council will want us to agree at their first reading to their proposals for category 5. i do not think that is possible but if we could get an agreement as to what we want to do throughout the year, then we can come to some conclusions. we should also give serious consideration to frontloading for next year in category 5. mr podestà's report has highlighted underspends in this year's budget. in category 5 last year, eur 70 million was underspent. on average in category 5, there is eur 50 million underspent each year. if we can take the underspends from this year and use a global ramassage for all the institutions, then we may find some method of frontloading to save the pains of next year's budget. hopefully if we can do that, then we will make some progress with the council and it will be worth going.
mr president, it is always helpful to have a debate before our first reading of the budget with the council later this month, but the resolutions in front of us from mr podestà and mr färm highlight a substantive contradiction, at least for me and for my group. firstly, on the one hand we have under-utilisation of funds, where clearly, with the balance recovered by member states now amounting to eur 15 billion for the 2001 financial year, as mr färm points out, there is a significant financial and political problem, especially as regards insufficient payments in the structural funds. however, as mr virrankoski said, there has of course been poor implementation of payment appropriations amounting to eur 82 billion. is this because of the matters mrs buitenweg raised about member states not wanting to use these funds? is it poor procedures? is it simply rigidity? it could also be related to co-financing, where the monies are not available in the member states, in which case we need to take some care about the next steps for agricultural policy, because we could find ourselves in some difficulty if we rely on member states to implement programmes. secondly, there is a contradiction between external policy and administrative policy. we are actually looking for funds to implement programmes decided by the council or by our institution in the budgetary procedure. we know that parliament has not actually approved the afghanistan funding of eur 1 billion and yet we see the commission and the council gaily going ahead, assuming that this will be the case. therefore, in the light of these two very contradictory approaches, it seems to me and to my group very logical that we should ask the commission for more flexibility in the way in which finance can be transferred from one part of the budget to the other, because on one side we have too little and on the other we have too much. yet, we find the socialist group wants to delete paragraph 12. their speaker should justify why they oppose such a logical approach.
mr president, for the group of the european liberal, democrat and reform party, the key test of seville was the agreement on immigration and asylum which elevated discussion beyond the search for cheap newspaper headlines and into the core of the challenge. a casual reader of the newspapers in the run-up to seville might have believed that the prime minister of spain was playing don josé to tony blair's carmen in a passionate but deadly delusion about using development aid as a weapon in the crackdown on illegal migrants. we, therefore, welcome the success of prime minister verhofstadt and others in redressing the balance of the european council's draft conclusions. in particular we are pleased that the council recalled the importance of economic cooperation, free trade, development aid and conflict prevention in tackling the causes of illegal immigration. i applaud the council's emphasis on providing incentives to developing countries to cooperate in the management of migration flows rather than on suspending development aid for non-cooperation. however, rather than simply setting new targets for achieving progress on immigration and asylum, heads of state and government would do better to stop clogging up the decision-making process with national initiatives and to back commission proposals under the community method. that means using qualified majority voting to ensure that decisions can be taken. concerning the proposals for reform of the proceedings of the council, it is all very well for heads of state and government to talk about introducing greater transparency into the workings of the council. however, this will not be achieved merely by allowing cameras into the room for a ritual round-table debate and for the votes. we need to achieve real transparency by giving access to council documents on the internet, from when they are first discussed by officials right up to ministerial level. it is disgraceful that council officials in the secretariat are refusing to make room documents and unnumbered documents publicly available. a rationalisation of the number of councils is no doubt called for, but it would be far better for this to be done in conjunction – as the president of the commission said – with similar moves in parliament and in the commission so that lines of accountability and responsibility are clear. i am also concerned that the abolition of the development council could be seen as a downgrading of the union's role in development assistance, which must not be allowed to happen. following the barcelona summit, i warned in this chamber of the danger of a credibility gap opening up if the ambitious targets set for economic reform were not implemented. in particular i called for progress to be made towards an integrated financial services market. i, therefore, warmly congratulate the spanish presidency on securing a deal on the pensions directive – which had been blocked in council since july of last year – as well as agreement on the market abuse directive, because behind the sound and fury over illegal immigration it is steady progress on technical but vital issues such as these which show the worth of a presidency. (applause)
mr president, i have to begin by saying that all my remarks in relation to the seville summit have been spoiled by mr watson's speech. i am afraid, prime minister aznar, i cannot get out of my mind this image of you endeavouring to seduce "carmen" tony blair. i was going to begin by saying what a great encouragement and example you have been to the centre-right parties in europe. very many of the political successes we have seen during the course of recent months have been because of the good example you have set. however, looking at the agenda at seville and the areas where we would wish to see greater progress, i have to say that i am a little disappointed at the economic reform package. i do not blame you for that, prime minister, i blame recalcitrant governments elsewhere in europe. however, there is no doubt that there is too much complacency about corporate governance issues in the united states and about the assumption that the lisbon agenda will just in some way be delivered without there being marked change here within europe. the prime minister understands that, but i am not sure that many other member state governments do. in relation to terrorism and illegal immigration, it is quite right that you have put those matters at the forefront. much has been said about them. i merely endorse the remarks and your support for raising those matters in terms of the overall agenda. in relation to enlargement, certainly my party looks for considerable progress in negotiations on the cap and structural reform. we look with some interest at what may happen in ireland in the referendum, which may turn upon the charms of our president. this brings me back to the compelling image of "carmen" blair, because when it comes to council reform – the concept of having a five-year presidency – maybe we would regard you as being the ideal candidate for that role, but mr blair has been telling our house of commons that he – not you – is the man who set the agenda at seville. he did not say it once, he said it five times! his europe minister said that it was mr blair's agenda that is being set. i would just ask you to reconsider the whole story of carmen because i do not think that she was necessarily a totally reliable person to be engaged in seduction.
acting president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to make a few brief comments on some of the positions taken by the various groups and some of your colleagues. first of all, as you all know, the task of the presidencies is essentially to promote measures, to promote reforms, to take the initiative and, above all, to forge and seek agreements that will make things go forward, which is precisely the european tradition and also the meaning of the debates in the european council. in connection with the questions raised concerning the area of freedom, security and justice and those put before us today in connection with immigration policy, i would like to recall that what has been developed in seville is the general plan, the general strategy adopted by the tampere european council. i am grateful for all the reminders in this regard, but at the same time i would like to recall that in 1998 the then austrian chancellor, viktor klima, instructed a number of prime ministers, under the austrian presidency, to develop and present draft projects and work plans. and it was precisely on behalf of spain that i had the satisfaction of being asked to develop all the questions relating to the third pillar of the union. the tampere council was established on the basis of the work carried out and approved at the informal european council in pörtschach. and it sets out a general framework for the third pillar for the first time, which naturally has its own requirements and developments in view of the new circumstances that are arising and in view of the very dynamics of the process established in tampere. this was done in seville, as the programme of the spanish presidency had indicated from the outset. i mean, in this respect, there are four bases on which we have to move, in a field as complex as immigration. first of all, the legality. immigration into our countries must have a basis of legality. that is necessary, as is immigration; that is essential for the integration of immigrants into our societies; that is absolutely necessary for the management of migratory flows which can only be based on legality; and that is strongly advisable for the maintenance of coexistence in all our societies and in all our countries. to think that an immigration policy can be made without distinguishing between legal and illegal and with the cry of 'papers for all' is, in my view, to bet on the wrong line, on conflict, on non-integration and on demagogy. for the same reason that this is so from a legal point of view, there is a peremptory obligation to fight illegal immigration. we cannot seriously say in our societies that it is the same to be a legal immigrant as an illegal one because, in the end, the great loser is the person who has legally followed certain procedures to seek shelter and work in a country. and there are mafias that are involved in human trafficking and illegal immigration, which is a very profitable business for these mafias and which is linked, in addition, to the commission of other crimes, such as drug trafficking. the launching of an action plan against illegal immigration is therefore one of the most important elements that have been developed in seville and, naturally, it is one of the new elements launched throughout this process in the spanish presidency. i think it is quite absurd to think, ladies and gentlemen, that we do not have to pay special attention to external border control and that we should progressively improve it until we can arrive at the formula that we think best for ensuring our effectiveness at community level, especially in the field of european enlargement. we have basic obligations to defend, control and monitor our external borders and we have basic obligations to be much more effective through common visas, expert groups or security forces, task forces, special forces. we have many more obligations, and even more - as i said - in the field of enlargement. finally, an important innovation in the area of immigration is that it is incorporated into the european union's cooperation policy. it is the first time that this has happened, but all agreements that the european union signs with any country from now on must include an immigration clause, as they do for the fight against terrorism and the defence of human rights. all agreements concluded by the european union from now on will have a clause relating to the fight against illegal immigration and commitments to combat it. this is not a more or less scandalous debate about any kind of sanction. it is a matter of reflecting and saying: what happens when a country systematically refuses to comply with the readmission agreements for illegal immigrants? what happens when technical cooperation in favour of a country is used not to combat illegal immigration but to encourage illegal immigration? can it be seriously said that in such a case the european union has to act as if nothing had happened? will technical or financial means continue to be given to countries which use them to encourage rather than to counter illegal immigration? i think that is a very good point, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for it. that is why i think it is very appropriate for the union to reserve the right to act accordingly if necessary. nothing is gained, therefore, by not facing these problems. nothing is gained, of course, and this has been demonstrated recently by confronting them with demagogy. and i do not think that we can win by having sterile debates about whether europe should be a fortress or not. europe must be possible and europe has a capacity to welcome which must be based on the law and on that, without a doubt, we will make a positive immigration policy for everyone. secondly, on the terrorism front, there have been very important developments which have been taking place in europe for years, and particularly since 11 september 2001. i would like to say that on this subject, ladies and gentlemen, there can be no understanding of any terrorist action, no support for any terrorist action, much less resignation to terrorism. terrorism and terrorists are not just those who are part of a commando-executive-operative-murder. they are those who support, who cover up, who help or who finance terrorists, who are part of the terrorist organization ... (applause)... and who are as responsible as they are for the actions of the terrorist organization. i hope that there will be no european institution or any institution in any member state of the european union that gives shelter or gives seats to those who harbour, finance or support terrorists. because the only destiny of terrorism, in that sense, is to be morally, politically and operationally defeated. winston churchill said that no fate is written to inevitably fall upon us, unless we do nothing to prevent it. i would like to say that what we have to avoid every day is to tolerate the fact that there are terrorists who can take refuge in institutions to continue committing crimes or to continue financing or covering up crimes anywhere in the european union or in any country of the european union. i would like to say to you, in relation to what the economy means, that the basic element and the basic objective, as you know, is full employment. that is our goal, to reach full employment. there is virtually no country in the european union which is not currently undertaking labour or social reforms in an attempt to move closer to full employment. it is precisely those countries with the greatest unemployment problems which must work harder to bring about these reforms. full employment in europe has two lines: one is the stability pact, the foundation of sustainable and stable growth in europe, and the other is the policy of reforms for a more competitive, more open, more productive area. we cannot weaken the stability pact and stop making reforms, but we must maintain the stability pact and make reforms. that will encourage growth, increase competition and, above all, achieve our objective of having as many people as possible working in europe. but if we weaken the stability pact or fail to push forward with reforms, we will not be able to face up to the full employment policies in europe clearly. (applause) the third consideration is in relation to enlargement. first of all, let me make it clear: i hope and wish that the nice calendar will be fulfilled. the nice calendar ends at the end of 2002. so we are in the middle of the nice calendar. secondly, the common positions on regional policy, institutional policy, the financial framework and agricultural policy have been adopted. the mandate given to the presidency to establish common policies has therefore been carried out. within the common policy, the common agricultural position, a financial aspect has yet to be defined, which will be done in november. that is because an agreement and a difficult consensus were reached at the seville european council, the only danger of which was that no agreement would be reached and enlargement would be jeopardised. we will therefore be able to take decisions in november and we will have effectively fulfilled the nice timetable in december. it is a question of applying the acquis communautaire and not of calling into question other policies: in other words, mixing the financial perspective, agenda 2000 - which is valid until 2006. i think it is a mistake to confuse the financial perspective with enlargement. and mixing policy reforms with enlargement is another mistake. and to want to mix the three things is to bet that enlargement will not take place and that certainly has not been and will not be the impulse of the presidency or the spanish government. (applause) as regards external relations, i would like to say that the common position on johannesburg has been adopted over the last few months. in this common position it is very important to bear in mind that neither the doha agreement nor the monterrey agreement, which took us so long to reach, should be opened. as regards the reform of the council, i would like to say that decisions have been taken which do not involve the reform of the treaties. the reform of the treaties was not within the scope of the european council, and that is why the reflections that follow are being opened. the reforms which do not involve any amendment of the treaties in themselves, i believe, represent a reasonable step forward in this respect. in relation to the polemic, the dynamic, or the debate on the presidencies, that is open and many positions can be defended. the fact is that if you say that you are not in favour of a six-month presidency and you are not in favour of a presidency for three, four or five years, you have to say what you are in favour of, because somehow you will have to preside over the european councils: six months, a year or two years, but somehow you have to organise the european presidencies. except that what is proposed is that the presidencies should be abolished and the european council abolished, which i personally do not support. ladies and gentlemen, we have made presentations to this house three times, and i have appeared before this house three times. i hope and hope that those who will be presiding over the european councils afterwards will also fulfil this mission of appearing before your honour to give an account of the european councils. we now have very important challenges - institutional, enlargement, security, defence, economic - in our countries and in the european union. we will continue to contribute to the european union's further progress and to the achievement of our objectives and ambitions. that is what can enable us to be, after the work of these six months, reasonably satisfied, which is the best thing to have a good basis for entrusting the future. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the commission. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate has highlighted some of the essential points raised by the spanish presidency, to which i would like to return with a few brief remarks. the first point was a further deepening of the debate on terrorism, which made it clear that only strong cooperation at european level can solve the problems. and in the last six months, concrete steps have been taken in this direction: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. terrorism is not won by isolated actions but by coordination, which we have an obligation to do at european level. a second family of problems concerned international aid and the forthcoming johannesburg commitment. i want to come back to this briefly because today's and tomorrow's meetings are the last we have before this very big meeting at the end of august. this half-year - from monterrey to kananaskis - has seen a slight reversal in the trend of a steady decline in aid to the third world. i use the word 'slightly' because, on the one hand, i am satisfied that there has been a reversal, but on the other hand, i am concerned that this reversal is not decisive, not as strong as we all wanted it to be. the concern is heightened by the difficulty of the preparatory meeting in johannesburg, which was held in bali. i would like to say, in answer to your questions, that the commission will not only not abolish the development dg, but will actually strengthen it. i intend to launch a community initiative for africa, developing the nepad lines which were outlined at the g8 meeting in kananaskis. it is absolutely essential that we devote ourselves more vigorously and with more energy to africa. i would also like to mention the mediterranean problem, which has been given a boost in the past six months. but even here, the push is still not enough for the scale of the problems that this area poses. all the talk we've had today about immigration, about our security, about our relations with the outside world, it all comes down to a stronger and more important policy for the mediterranean. finally, the foundations have been laid for the enlargement to be concluded in copenhagen. this was a very difficult objective, and the presidency and the commission pursued it with tenacity and success. there is of course a lot of attention - and a question mark - on the future course of these negotiations, and particular attention is paid to agriculture. i must say quite frankly that the commission's proposals are the only ones which can harmonize the different demands, the different expectations, in a situation of tight budgets, but also in a situation where the needs of the farmers of the existing countries must be met as much as possible. we have committed all the remaining resources we have to direct aid. in these years we have saved hard to get below 1.27, which is the limit, and with the enlargement to ten member states we are able, yes, to stay within the limits of 1.27, but we are using all our resources. but i believe that this is the only way we can go forward. some brief answers now to specific questions: mr bonde referred to the famous telephone call between myself and president aznar on the problems of the cfsp. i must say that this is the right method, that we have made at least 30 or 40 of these calls this semester, that it is precisely through this continuous cooperation that we have been able to work for the common interest. i would even ask mr bonde to call me if he needs to, so that we can coordinate our work. (applause) i would like to thank on ireland, mr doyle, i made it very clear yesterday that there is no plan for the irish referendum. not only did i say that, but i said there is no back door or side door. i have been extremely clear and i hope that this clarity will be recorded in the minutes of this meeting today. finally, mr imbeni asked questions about the annual planning of our work - this is very important - and the three-year planning of the european council in seville. i think it is not wrong to consider this annual programming as the only acceptable solution within the current limits of the duration of the presidency of the institutions, to allow for a coherent interinstitutional continuity, that is to say a way of respecting the duration of the presidencies by helping each other to plan for the long term. for annual programming the commission has begun to make its preliminary proposals under the gsp procedure, which has an annual strategy, and these are invested by both parliament and the council: i think that's a very practical way to start working together. i think that the three institutions should work together to make this new idea useful and to avoid it becoming a bureaucratic burden. in this context it would be useful to examine how to harmonize the duration of this programming with the duration of the institutions present, trying to make them as homogeneous as possible. one final thought, again on a question from mr imbeni. i would like to recall the words of great sorrow and appreciation which this parliament has spoken to professor marco biagi, who was brutally murdered by terrorists. (applause) i would like to thank
- we now move to the votes. the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment from pollution and the protection of the environment from the risks arising from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment from the risks arising from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment from the risks arising from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment from the risks arising from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment from the risks arising from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment from the risks arising from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment from the risks arising from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment from the risks arising from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment from the risks arising from the use of chemicals, and the protection of the environment from the risks arising from the use of chemicals.
in writing. - the epp-ed delegation has reservations on paragraph 35, which calls for a change to qualified majority voting for article 151. despite these reservations, the delegation supports the position of the vander taelen report as a whole.
- that concludes the explanations of vote. (the sitting was suspended at 1.35 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
mr president, since there is a very large measure of agreement in this house over the fundamentals of policy towards the ecb, i would like to address one specific measure which we have in the draft resolution, which we have requested before without receiving a formal response from the governing council in the annual report, and i hope this will be rectified. it is the issue of publishing the balance of votes on an anonymous basis, so that the markets and parliament can assess the shift of opinion over time. you, mr duisenberg, have raised objections in the past to such a move, because the governing council tends to decide by consensus. i was glad that you indicated to us in committee that you would reconsider this over time. i hope that you will decide to take decisions by majority voting, both because this would lead to more efficient decision-making and because you are asked to do so in the treaties. i would like to make it clear that i do not share the criticism over the last year that the ecb has acted too little and too late. in fact the ecb first cut interest rates in may 2001 despite a continuing rise in inflation, which had still to peak at 3.4%. you have honoured your monetary reference values only in the breach, and in 26 out of 41 months you have allowed inflation to exceed your target range. this is a pragmatic institution. however, we know from the council of ministers that voting by consensus, in other words by unanimity, is slower and more difficult than voting by majority. for this reason alone, it would be sensible for the ecb in future to vote by majority. the fact that present procedures have not led to mistakes is not an argument against improving them, particularly when this is what the treaty requires. article 10 of the protocol on the statute of the european system of central banks clearly states that the governing council shall act by a simple majority. therefore, i hope that the governing council will also note its treaty obligations in the manner of its decision-taking by majority.
mr president, i welcome the commission proposal. it is a genuine and honest attempt to try to meet the demands of the public with regard to this issue. the rapporteur's reports have been a genuine attempt to improve that proposal. it means that we are a step closer to having proper and rational use of gm technology within europe. i hope it is a step closer to getting the moratorium lifted so that we can start to approve new gm products which will be of benefit to all and utilise the new legislation, of which i was the author last year. it gives much higher protection than the legislation which is currently used in the crop trials now taking place in the european union. we have to continue to ask questions. is this really giving the public what they want? when members of the public contact me, by email, postcard, telephone or personally, they do not say "please give us the chance to eat food that contains less than 1% gmo". they say "please give us the chance to choose to eat food that has no gmo in it, that is gmo-free, so that we can make a genuine choice between gmo and no gmo". i do not believe this proposal does that. it will label food that contains a substantial quantity of gmo, but it will leave on the shelf in the supermarket many different substances and products that are not labelled, but that contain gmo. the public will be misled; the public will be confused; the public will again not have confidence and trust in the labelling systems that we propose for their benefit in this house. we have to think again. i doubt whether this proposal, in its present form, unless it is well amended, is going to be of positive benefit to the public. we have to tell people the truth about what is in their food. ninety-nine percent of the truth is not honest; it is not good enough; it is not the necessary 100%. (applause)
mr president, concerns about the effects of gmos on human health are in the minds of many of us overshadowed by doubts about their effects upon other species of plants or animal life and about the control of the world's seed bank by a handful of companies. but it is animal and human health which is the issue before us and the eldr group is united in its belief that products need to be clearly labelled so that consumers can make proper choices. we are, however, divided about the clearest way of achieving this result. a majority accept the commission proposals but want products with more than 0.5% of gmos or less if practicable, to be labelled as such. traceability rules should be established so that this is done even when the presence of gmo dna cannot be identified. but we risk overwhelming the consumer if we label every foodstuff made from products derived from animals fed on gmos. i am opposed to steps being taken which will eventually lead only to gmo-free or to non-gmo products being labelled if such a thing is possible, because this will result in normal foods being classified as special and transfer the burden of proof and costs away from gmo producers. we may have to do this eventually but not yet. gm crops have the potential to bring major benefits, but they also pose threats to the environment. rules for trade are needed, but i will not be sorry if consumer preference slows the pace of gmo development and allows us more time to assess the full consequences of their use.
mr president, these reports are about allowing people the choice whether or not to eat gm food. the only way to do that is with an effective labelling and traceability scheme that will tell consumers exactly what they want to know, which is whether the food or feed is being produced using gmos. that means labelling food and feed that contain gmos or have been produced with gmos, so that when people pick up a packet or a tin in a shop, they can see if this is a gm product or not. that effect would not be achieved with a gm-free label. apart from the difficulty of ensuring that products are 100% gm-free, why should we put all of the responsibility, expense and inconvenience on to those who do not use gmos? that would push up the price of gm-free goods and put them out of the reach of many consumers. those who use gmos should have the legal obligation to label and to take all steps necessary to avoid contaminating conventional or organic produce. talking about thresholds for adventitious or accidental contamination but then making those who do not use gmos responsible for meeting those thresholds contradicts the 'polluter pays' principle. we should reject any threshold for unauthorised gmos, which should not be allowed to reach the market. in the case of approved gmos, however, we should accept only the lowest achievable tolerance level. this means that the most recent state of science and technology will be taken into account. i know from the response from my own constituents that consumers are extremely concerned about this issue and are strongly in favour of the traceability and labelling of gm food and animal feed. i also know that many major voluntary organisations, consumer organisations and supermarkets strongly support this kind of scheme. i hope that tomorrow this parliament will adopt a stringent scheme to give consumers the real choice and the confidence that they are demanding of us.
mr president, biotechnology is at the heart of the lisbon process to make europe the world's most dynamic and competitive knowledge-based economy. in line with this ambition, biotech is top priority in the sixth framework research programme which we approved only recently. advances in crop biotechnology promise major benefits for our environment and consumers. if, for a moment, we can give thought to the interests of others, they will be of incalculable benefit to those who are hungry or suffer blindness and disease in the third world. it is therefore shameful that we bow down to the destructive agenda of friends of the earth and greenpeace, who are intent on bamboozling the public with unjustified scare stories. clearly, their purpose is to prevent all advance in this area of great scientific promise, for that is what these present texts from the trakatellis and scheele reports would mean. the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy understood these implications for industry, our farmers, our international trade relations, our scientific community and, yes, for our consumers. it voted for a gm free and virtually gm-free labelling system which would be readily workable and much less bureaucratic and more consistent with consumer wishes for simple and straightforward information – much more straightforward than the present commission proposal, let alone the absurd texts before us. certain member states also would much prefer this solution. i ask the commission to bear in mind, when it comes to codecision, that this option has support in parliament. if it genuinely stands by its biotechnology action plan, it should give this option more consideration. indeed, i call on the commission this afternoon to state that this option could still be open.
mr president, i was about to welcome my parents to the chamber but as i was told i had to come back at 9 p.m., i do not know if they have made it back in yet. if they did not know much about gmos before 3.45 p.m. they certainly know much more about them now. this year the issue of gms is hotly topical and controversial. it has been a key issue in the scottish parliament. in the welsh assembly there is talk about a gm-free wales. crop trials are presently being conducted in scotland. one is presently under way in a small village in munlochy, in the black isle, where the local community has even kept vigil at the site of an extensive trial. there is no getting away from this issue. food scares over the past decade have meant that consumers want to be sure that what they are eating is safe. currently, fears about gm foods run high. although the evidence suggests that gm foods are safe, people are unsure about the environmental impact and the obvious unknown. how do we reassure people over this issue? how do we make the waves – as mrs scheele said – on issues like these? labels and traceability are one answer. the only way to gain the confidence of consumers is to offer a totally traceable, transparent and reliable information system. traceability puts the burden of proof on the producer. whether the threshold is 1% or 0.5%, if practicable, these are a step forward. on the subject of labelling, people want as much information as is possible. this has to rest on quality information. the jury is out. a gm-free label has been talked about. there is a lot of potential there, but it can also mislead consumers because of accidental contamination. rules for gm-free labelling exist in germany, austria and the netherlands, but food producers cannot guarantee that products are completely gm free. these products should not become a costly niche market. mrs scheele's comment on the subject is welcome. this debate will continue. we cannot afford to let this opportunity to have proper, practical traceability and labelling of gms pass us by. as an article in today's guardian says, we are at a crossroads. the vote tomorrow will determine the future of genetically modified food in europe.
commission. – mr president, i am pleased to announce the adoption today by the commission of our new strategy on corporate social responsibility. this document is a follow-up to the green paper on csr, which we presented last summer and, after six months of consultation, we had a large number of very constructive and positive responses from across the union. i would like to congratulate and thank parliament and, in particular, the rapporteur, mr howitt, for his contribution to the consultation on the csr green paper. in a nutshell, the fundamental aim of this strategy is to strengthen the role that business plays in working towards sustainable development in europe and beyond. sustainability is not just a matter of governance or of individuals, it is a matter for business. csr is about companies integrating social and environmental concerns in their business operations and in their interaction with their stakeholders on a voluntary basis. many firms have already recognised the importance of responsible business and, as a result, csr schemes have mushroomed. however, the european union can add value by helping stakeholders to make csr more transparent, more open and ultimately more credible. corporate social responsibility and corporate governance are two sides of the same coin. "greenwashing" your social and environmental performance is as bad as "whitewashing" profits. this is why more and more firms are realising that csr is no longer just a job for the marketing department. the new csr strategy which has been adopted today – proposed by myself and mr liikanen, the commissioner responsible for enterprise – seeks to complement existing initiatives by companies themselves and by international organisations such as the oecd and the united nations. this strategy supports business and other stakeholder efforts for a better trade-off between economic, social and environmental needs in a globalised economy. it seeks to improve knowledge on csr through the exchange of good practice, research on the business case for csr and the development of responsible management skills. so what in concrete terms have we put forward today? allow me to mention three main points. first, we have proposed setting up a "european multi-stakeholder forum". who is it for, what is its purpose and what is it going to do? this forum will bring together leading european representative organisations of employers, employees, consumers and civil society, as well as business networks across europe. this forum will exchange good practice and seek consensus on guiding principles for csr tools, such as codes of conduct, reporting, labelling schemes and evaluation mechanisms. this responds to one of the requests made to the commission in the howitt report on the green paper. in our view, the forum could play a central role in seeking to set out a common european union approach based on guiding principles agreed by businesses and stakeholders. the commission's strategy to promote csr builds on the voluntary nature of business efforts. the role of the forum will be to increase the consensus between enterprises and other stakeholders. this will help businesses get the most out of their csr efforts. secondly, the strategy will support the promotion of csr in small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular through awareness raising and capacity-building initiatives, because csr is by no means the sole preserve of large multinational firms. finally, the commission will work towards integrating csr principles across the full range of european union policies: employment and social affairs, enterprise, development, trade and public procurement. in terms of follow-up, the forum will be asked to present before the summer of 2004 a report on its work to the commission, which will then evaluate its results, decide on its future and consider if any other initiative, involving business and other stakeholders in particular, is needed to further promote responsible business.
commissioner, i very much welcome your comments. they are very wise, as so often. i particularly like the way you have stressed yet again the importance of voluntary initiatives, which many of us believe are so crucial to the success of csr, and the way you have highlighted that usage of csr is indeed mushrooming. i am sure you welcome, as all of us hopefully in this house will, the announcement in yesterday's financial times that a number of business leaders will be launching a csr academy in insead fontainebleau this coming friday. it shows that business has already got the message, which will now be cascading through more and more levels of business. we should support you and the work that you are doing, and make sure that we recognise that "voluntary nature" is writ large in everything we do from here on.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for her kind words and offer my sincere congratulations to her and to commissioner liikanen for this white paper. i am very happy to restate parliament's support for the development of a european framework on corporate social responsibility. i thank the commissioner particularly for shifting its focus and taking forward our proposals for a multi-stakeholder forum and for a greater commitment to the international dimension and the international impact of european businesses worldwide. i would like to ask the commissioner three questions: first, in section 7.6 the commissioner says rightly that public financial support to enterprises by member states should be made subject to compliance with ethical standards. will the commissioner confirm that she will apply this argument to the commission's own aid to business? secondly, will commissioner diamantopoulou repeat her assurance, made to parliament on 30 may, that if business fails to make progress on annual social and environmental reporting within the two years, the commission will consider making such reporting mandatory? finally, when in section 4.3 the commission says it will discuss csr-related legislation with member states, could she say which legislation she has in mind?
commission. – mr president, i thank all the members of parliament for their great interest in and support for this proposal. the commission did its best to take into account the comments from your side. as to what will happen next, it is very important that we respect the spirit of the communication where we say that the forum now has a key role to play. in the forum all stakeholders will come together and reach conclusions and then we will make an assessment. if we now pre-empt the conclusions, before the forum is set up, we will not be acting in a proper way. secondly, corporate social responsibility – the whole idea was launched years ago by jacques delors when he turned to businesses and asked for their support and contribution to agreed european objectives. it has been a voluntary activity. it is very important that this activity should be fully taken into account when organising future work, including fora. i am sure that mrs diamantopoulou is much more familiar with the work of the dublin institute and its experience in that field and i am sure the commission is ready to take that into account. as far as the ethical criteria for community funding are concerned, it would be totally unthinkable that any community funding could be provided on the basis of criteria which do not fully respect the ethical standards which we share in our treaty and our values. if there are some cases which appear to show the opposite, we must act accordingly.
commission. – mr president, i wish to answer two questions. the first concerns mr howitt's question on what we mean by this proposal for the csr concerning the legislative frameworks of the member states. we already have data on existing legislation in all member states and it would be very useful if we could disseminate best practices, not only in terms of business practices, but in governmental practices as well, so that we can see whether successful results are produced by an obligation or a regulation in a member state. we can then disseminate the results to the other member states. as mr liikanen has said, we cannot prejudge the final result after two years of the forum. we very much hope that, because of this huge and very constructive contribution by companies and other stakeholders during our consultation process, by the middle of 2004 we will have a concrete report and that the commission will present its initiative on the basis of this report.
commission. – of course there are business networks which are already very active on this issue of corporate social responsibility and of course there are european interlocutors who represent enterprises and smes at european level. as far as the problem of job losses is concerned – because it is true that there has been a huge number of job losses during the last two years – i would just like to remind you that there is another commission initiative concerning social re-structuring. this initiative was launched some months ago and it invites social partners to work in partnership with local authorities and governments in order to find new ways to save jobs.
mr president, i should like to ask a bit more about this forum. how big is it? how often will it meet? where will it meet? how much will it cost? who is going to pay for it? can you fill out the detail?
commission. – mr president, about 40 organisations will participate in this forum. it will meet twice a year and there is no particular budget to service the forum. there is an internal budget which concerns the commission and aspects of the organisation of the forum, but not as far as participants are concerned.
mr president, just a follow-up question. will the sessions of the forum be held openly and in public? will meps, therefore, be able to attend, as observers, any of these sessions?
commission. - in response to the protectionist measures taken by the united states, the european union has put in place a three-pronged strategy to ensure that our rights are respected in the multilateral trading framework. first: action before the wto to have the us measures condemned; secondly, the adoption of a european safeguard designed to maintain access to the european market while protecting it from trade flows which, if excluded from the american market, would flow back to the european market. thirdly, we are asking for compensation from the united states for the losses suffered by european exporters as a result of the us measures, which is in line with our interpretation of the wto texts on safeguard clauses. we have not yet imposed additional customs duties on american products, but we now have a council regulation which was adopted on 13 june last, and which gives the union the possibility of suspending tariff conditions, which is the appropriate wto language, on certain american products as from 18 june 2002. our main objective is to obtain a set of exclusions and/or compensations in the short term, which may require additional time to negotiate, and we will, as agreed with the council, report on the state of play before 19 july. it is in the light of this report and our recommendations that a decision will then be taken whether or not to impose additional duties on a limited number of us products worth some eur 400 million. the regulation will impose tariff increases on an amount of trade equivalent to the injury suffered, i.e. a much larger amount of over eur 2 billion, if the us does not withdraw its measures after the wto's condemnation, i.e. by mid-2003. the question is: what is the impact of the us measures on employment? an assessment of the impact of the us measures on employment in the steel production sector in europe is both difficult and premature. difficult because the us measures have only a limited lifespan and because, following the rise in steel prices in the us and elsewhere, european steel companies tend to be fat-backed for a few months and therefore do not part with workers they have trained and who are competent and productive. premature because this impact will depend on the level of exemptions we obtain from the us administration and also on the outlets that european steel companies will find in other markets for products that no longer have access to the us. however, it is clear that european steel companies which have to pay these customs duties, which can be up to 30% higher, are at a serious disadvantage compared to those which do not have to pay them. so at this point, we can't give any more figures. we do not have specific statistics on the impact of the us measures in each member state, as this is managed at union level and our interlocutors are the steel companies, most of which are now multinational in europe. paradoxically, the impact on employment is likely to be most severe in the usa, especially in the steel-consuming sectors of the us economy which are likely to be most affected in the short term, due to their inability to pass on the price increases to their own customers or because this will lead to their customers moving to other continents.
commission - our objective, mr sacrédeus, is that there should be no 'later', that is to say that these measures should be reported by the americans as soon as possible, that is to say before they are condemned by the wto - which would obviously be the best solution, but unlikely, to be honest - or when they are condemned by the wto, which is to take place around the middle of next year. so it's a "later" that's not "too late", and that's our main goal. in the meantime, we want to use all our rights in the wto to put pressure on the united states so that, as i said, we can get compensation and/or exemptions, so that the impact on our steel industries, as the americans grant exemptions, which are in fact waivers from the tariff increase for the benefit of our exporters, is as positive as possible. there are already a number of exemption packages that have been announced, others are coming and we must keep up the pressure. we will use the measures that the wto allows us to take in accordance with our interests and the fact that the united states will ultimately have to conform to international law.
commission. - mr rübig, the answer to your question is: yes. the us protection measures have led to a substantial increase in prices on the us market. elsewhere, including in europe, prices are currently following a reverse short-term trend. the price differential between the us and european markets has widened. the european price of hot-rolled coils is about eur 250 per tonne, compared with eur 400 per tonne in the usa. so the difference is quite considerable. this difference can be compared to a bubble created by us protectionism, which induces a more comfortable price, profitability and cash flow situation for us manufacturers. these, we are told, are supposed to use this bubble to restructure themselves. the whole question is whether, in the very short time that the wto allows them and that we allow them, there is a reasonable chance that american industry will restructure itself and deal with the competitiveness problems that are at the root of their difficulties. we do not yet have an answer to that question, but my personal prognosis is unfortunately reserved. secondly, i believe that we are trying to protect the interests of the union and to enforce the rules of international trade. if all the wto members were to adopt the safeguard clause in the way the americans interpret it today, there would certainly be disorder in a number of world markets. i would reassure mr rübig that when the council of ministers and parliament are united behind the negotiator, the latter's task is greatly facilitated.
the wall street journal came to the conclusion that the shift by mr bush to declare these steel tariffs in march, followed by his agricultural subsidies and his protectionism on timber with canada, was the turning-point from being a free-trade regime to a protectionist, america-first regime. would you think this is the case or are your friend, mr zoellick, and mr bush still genuinely free trade?
the commission. you have rightly noted that the question now put by the honourable member is actually verbatim identical to the question put by mrs jackson. i am happy to answer that question now. maybe i'll start right away. the agreement with mauritania introduced a size limit for the pelagic segment of 9 500 grt, so that the atlantic dawn is not able to fish under the mauritania agreement. this is not a matter of flags being flown at the cost of the fishermen, but rather of the fact that atlantic dawn has subsequently entered into a private arrangement and is fishing under a private licence in mauritian waters. the owner of atlantic dawn has obtained this license directly from the mauritanian government, and it is therefore outside our sphere of influence. we can only control the part covered by the agreement. we cannot influence the agreements which the mauritanian government makes with other states or with private individuals. in order to avoid any misunderstanding on the question of infringement proceedings: i told you that there is still the situation that ireland is outside the map targets in terms of the pelagic segment. that is why this procedure is still in progress. however, the 'atlantic dawn' is duly registered and this proceeding against the 'atlantic dawn' has therefore been closed.
the atlantic dawn seems to be something of a mystery ship, operating off the coast of ireland, mauritania or wherever. i have a very simple question for the commission. was the atlantic dawn built with the aid of money which originated in the european union budget, going to ireland to help with this, or not? if so, how much money?
mr president, first of all let me congratulate my friend, the rapporteur professor trakatellis, on his excellent work. remarkably he actually succeeded at conciliation in increasing the funding allowed beyond the initial proposals of the commission to eur 380 million over five years, which contrasts with the initial council proposal of only eur 280 million. eu action in public health is still in the minds of some controversial, as not only is there a risk of duplication with the world health organisation's european activities, but also potentially a conflict with the fact that delivery and funding of health provision is exclusively the competence of the member states. if eu initiatives highlight best practice or stimulate demand for expensive treatments or disease prevention measures, then this may cause budgetary problems for member states. nevertheless, the focus on lifestyle changes as health determinants, with a focus particularly on information dissemination on smoking, excess alcohol consumption, nutrition and exercise, go a long way to reducing this risk. the hypocrisy of the eu, which still subsidises the tobacco growers to the tune of about eur 1 billion per year, needs urgent reform. some claim that the amounts involved at eu level, compared to national health expenditures, are so tiny that it is arguable whether we can achieve anything meaningful at eu level. nevertheless, in spite of what i have said, i engaged constructively at the first reading, along with a number of my colleagues in the conservative party, in highlighting the issue of mental health as a priority need and the need to set up formal structures which will coordinate the disparate funded activities and bring together the whole programme at the centre with direction and leadership. the need to develop consensus statements on best practice is important and it is vital to engage the candidate countries who are often so far behind in this area. lastly, a rapid reaction system to respond to impending health threats, as we have seen with the dioxin scandal in belgium or the bse crisis, is highly appropriate. it is the sort of thing which will bring the eu closer to the peoples of europe who probably care much more about health policy than almost anything else on the political agenda.
mr president, i wish to congratulate the rapporteur who used her experience in the fifth framework programme and her professional experience as a scientist to the great benefit of all of us, particularly following her accident. i should also like to thank mr busquin, an excellent commissioner, who has been very skilful along with his staff in ensuring that we could get a result early in the process. of course we all wish to thank mr marimón for his patience and good humour. i also thank the scientific community, which was not slow in giving us advice and in pointing out that its needs were for simplicity, faster administration and financial care. these new instruments are exciting, but we have to be sure that many people are not prevented from taking part in the programmes because of their lack of familiarity. liability looked as though it would be a big problem but, fortunately, it was overcome. i would point out the importance to parliament of amendment no 29 and its counterpart in the euratom programme, amendment no 38, which add criteria which can and should be taken into account, including activities to increase the role of women in research and to look at synergies with education. ease of access means that dissemination should be fairly easy, but parliament considers dissemination to be an important stage in this process. you can be sure that we shall be following up very carefully the sixth framework programme, visiting projects, speaking to scientists and asking for evaluations. with the adoption tomorrow of mrs quisthoudt-rowohl's report, the final piece of the puzzle will be in place. thanks to mr caudron and the rapporteurs on the specific programmes, we have worked efficiently and we now have plenty of time for our scientists to prepare, knowing our aim is to make the sixth framework programme efficient, well managed, easy to take part in and above reproach from the financial point of view. thank you again to all concerned.
president-in-office, you take on the presidency of the european council at a time when the union faces its greatest-ever challenge: the largest expansion of our community in the history of european integration. if you succeed – as we are confident you will – your presidency will tear down the last vestiges of the iron curtain. as you rightly point out in your programme, europe will have come full circle, from the copenhagen summit of 1993, which set the accession criteria, to the copenhagen summit which reunites europe in 2002. why are liberals in this house confident that you will succeed? not only because you have prepared so thoroughly for this task but also because you assume the presidency of the council at a time when liberals also occupy the presidencies of the european commission and the european parliament. with governments of left and right bowing to narrow national interests and placing in jeopardy this historic reunification, history appeals to the generosity of the liberal spirit. we appeal to blair and schröder on the left and to aznar, berlusconi and chirac on the right to pause for a moment and ponder: what picture will europe project to the world if you squabble like roman soldiers under the cross over a fraction of 1% of gdp? (applause) it is not easy to be a liberal when greed and prejudice fill the air, but rest assured, president-in-office, that liberal democrats in this house will maintain our unfailing support for enlargement under the criteria laid down in copenhagen. i regret that the spanish presidency was not able to lighten your workload by making greater progress on agriculture and fisheries, which have been spoken of today. while we strongly support reform of the cap and the cfp, this must not be a precondition for enlargement. let nobody assume that in our eagerness to secure the prize of enlargement, we will allow reform to fall by the wayside. but neither will we be held to ransom by the practice which allows the european union's agenda to be dictated by the timetable of national elections. the other hurdle that you must surmount is the paucity of public preparedness. a eurobarometer poll shows that only one citizen in five feels well informed about eu enlargement. ireland must approve the nice treaty, and beyond copenhagen, national parliaments and this house must ratify the accession treaties. if popular fears about candidate countries and the costs of enlargement are not addressed, the process could yet be derailed. however, this challenge will be in large measure addressed if denmark's proud tradition of openness and accountability is put to good use in opening up the council beyond the timid measures agreed in seville, and if you give your excellent european affairs minister free rein to take on the eurosceptics. in justice and home affairs the eldr group welcomes your detailed programme to protect our people from terrorism. we hope that as good liberals you will demonstrate the same zeal in taking forward measures to protect citizens' freedoms, as you show in tackling terrorist threats. in the area of immigration and asylum, i appeal to you to use the tried and tested community method to make progress and to overcome the short-sighted opposition of others to a european border guard corps. in answer to the remarks of my friend, mr baron crespo, i would far rather be an asylum-seeker trying to get into denmark – where i would have a greater chance of success – than one of the huddled masses trying to get into mr blair's bleak britain. (applause) on sustainable development, your commitment to concentrate on measures to put people back to work and ensure a sound economy rather than add to the proliferation of targets is music to liberal democrat ears. we also applaud your aim to match further progress on energy liberalisation with common ground rules on energy taxation, and you can count on our support to broker the necessary deals on the many financial services measures needed by the end of this year if we are to complete the financial services action plan on time by 2004. president-in-office, with such a magnitude of tasks you shoulder a great burden. re-uniting europe is rightly your number one concern. we wish you well and we offer you our support, for it is on our generation this responsibility falls; it is to us this challenge is made and it is with us that hope resides. (applause)
mr president, i very much welcome the danish presidency and i very much welcome the fact that in its programme it states that the european union has a special responsibility for peace and stability in a world which is ever more closely linked. we are living today through the biggest revolution in the history of the world, with technological telecommunications and transport revolution, as a result of which the world is a much smaller place. in that case, therefore, we should be in a much stronger position to shape that world, but in particular to ensure, as we are in the new century and the new millennium, that we will make it the first century in which we will no longer have conflict or war in our world and that the european union will use its influence to bring that about. given that the european union is the best example in the history of the world of conflict resolution, that strengthens our position to bring it about. the first half of the last century was the worst in the history of the world with two world wars. yet those same peoples, the peoples represented in this house, all came together and ended their conflict forever and created the european union. the principles at the heart of european union should be sent to areas of conflict anywhere in the world. i know from my own experience that the three principles at the heart of european union are the same three principles at the heart of the agreement in northern ireland. number one: respect for difference – that is what all conflict is about. difference should be respected. number two: institutions which respect difference; and number three: working together in the common interest and by so doing breaking down the barriers of the past. i welcome the fact that commissioner patten and his department are working in this area. but in today's world i would like to see the european union set up a full department concerned with peace and conflict resolution in the european commission, with its own commissioner. then we can play our role in the smaller world of today to end the terrible conflicts that take place in different parts of the world and to bring a message of peace and lasting stability to those areas.
mr president, enlargement is a noble project and we owe it to our eastern european neighbours, whom we failed at potsdam to protect from the yoke of communism, to welcome them back into the european family of nations. but there are many problems, ranging from the irish ratification of nice – though surely a plan b is already there if necessary – to the over-generous direct payments under cap to farmers and the potential for large-scale immigration, particularly by the poorly integrated and nomadic roma communities of whom there are very large numbers in eastern european countries. i particularly welcome the two british commonwealth countries, malta and cyprus, joining and this will increase the use of english in this institution, which i fully support. but i have concerns over cyprus, as already mentioned on the other side of the house. it may have to join as a divided island, with all that this means for possible turkish annexation of the north. what pressures can be applied, particularly to mr denktash, to make a deal with mr clerides to enable a united cyprus to join the union in 2004, as, i am sure, we would all wish in this house?
mr president, thank you for this innovation which is most welcome. i congratulate the danish presidency very warmly and naturally i congratulate my colleague, mr haarder, a former good member of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy as well as of this group, on his current tasks. however, friends in the presidency, i have a request for you which, as the danish presidency, i believe you will wish to grant. today in the treaty of rome we give rights – human rights and animal rights – but we give no rights to children. yet the fall of the berlin wall and the ending of the cold war threw open a devastating picture of child abuse, child neglect, child misery and child hunger and despair such as we have not seen in europe since the second world war. today, with the enlargement of the european union, the situation has not got better. why do i say that? because there is ample evidence, alas, that the breaking down of borders, that the enlargement of the european union, factors such as globalisation, the internet and schengen agreements have made the tragedy of child abuse still worse. children today are at risk as they have not been before; they are trafficked around the globe in vast numbers. traffickers, organised criminals and separation from their parents – these are among the many things of which children are victims. the european union cannot do everything, but we are uniquely powerful. what i ask is that you work with me and with the children's alliance, a group of us across the floor of this house, belonging to every single group, so that we can secure unanimous support. we seek to put into the accession treaty and into the treaty of rome something so simple, just a commitment to the united nations convention on the rights of the child, which every single member state has signed and ratified. the most important convention in the history of the world, it has the most ratifications. only the usa now stands out against it. the commission has played its part. it is in the acquis communautaire. it should now be in the accession treaty and in the treaty of rome. president—in-office, will you work with me on this?
mr president, i wish to add my welcome to the danish presidency and i welcome in particular the commitment to one europe, which is very important. my message to you, president-in-office, is exactly the same as my message three weeks ago here to the outgoing spanish presidency. the commission and parliament are doing their jobs on enlargement; it is now up to the council to deliver and to ensure that enlargement takes place. history will neither forgive nor forget the governments of the european union if, by squabbling over a few million euro, they delay this historic project. now is the time to deliver upon our promises. (applause) it is not the time to introduce new hurdles to the enlargement process. the reform of the common agricultural policy is important but it is not linked to enlargement. again, that is a message you must take back to the council. everybody will calm down as the medium-term review becomes clearer, but that is a message we need you to take back to the governments. we support you on your three issues. the criteria are there to be followed and they must be followed. we will work with you on that. nobody should be delayed if they are ready to come in, and december 2002 is the crucial date. mr watson made a rather shabby and silly remark about the united kingdom. i have to say that even in his so-called "bleak britain" anybody – whatever their age – can marry whoever they want. perhaps he would like to join with me in inviting young people from denmark to come to britain and marry whoever they want and then return, if they so wish. now is the time for action not words, as you said. however, over the next few months a few more harsh words and a lot of hard talk will take place. when you come back here in december after the summit meeting i really hope that we will all be singing with one voice: wonderful, wonderful copenhagen! thank you. (applause)
chairman of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy. – mr president, the committee on the environment believes that this is a measure that should be dealt with by my committee for three reasons. firstly, it is based on a part of the treaty dealing with environmental protection. it will be dealt with by the environment council. the committee on the environment is responsible for environmental policy; the committee on legal affairs and the internal market is responsible for civil liability law. in fact, this directive creates an entirely new instrument to combat general environmental damage to biodiversity, water and land, and puts an administrative burden on the public authorities in the member states to help prevent and restore such damage. it is misleading shorthand to refer to it as an environmental liability directive. the proposal should be referred to instead as the directive on the prevention and remedying of environmental damage. (applause) secondly, three vice-presidents – whom we spent one and a half days electing two and a half years ago – decided unanimously that this report should be drawn up by the committee on the environment. i have nothing to do with two of those vice-presidents as they come from groups which are miles away from the british conservatives. the third was mr provan who, for all we know, still has a hotline to mrs thatcher's handbag. (laughter)the committee on the environment therefore voted to sustain its objections to the assignment to the committee on legal affairs although, i have to confess, that it voted by a narrow majority. thirdly, our rapporteur, mr papayannakis, is already hard at work on this directive. we appreciate the work mr manders has done on the opinion on behalf of the committee on legal affairs. however, i have to say to the liberal group that it has no chance of persuading mr papayannakis to give up his rapporteurship in favour of a liberal. (laughter) there is one simple reason for this: if the liberal group wishes to take over the rapporteurship in the committee on the environment, it is bottom of the list. the following groups have first choice: the uen, the pse, the edd, even the non-attached, and the ppe are higher up the list than the liberals. there is one other possibility that nobody has thought of: what happens if there is a tie when we vote? i suggest that, in the event of a tie, we assign it to the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities which is looking for things to do. (laughter and applause)
in writing. - i am in favour of a directive which provides consumers with verifiable and meaningful information so that they can decide for themselves whether to buy food containing genetically modified organisms. the european union should not require the labelling of something that is not present, and therefore undetectable, in the final product. this is a disproportionate measure, which is not feasible and opens the door to fraud. i'm all for the 1% rule. i believe that this is a threshold which reliably reflects the possibilities of modern technology. i am opposed to the idea that we should require labelling of food from animals fed genetically modified food. this too would be unworkable. research has shown that transgenic dna is not found in the milk, meat or eggs of animals fed gmos. the technology of genetically modified organisms offers us the opportunity to develop forms of agriculture that are less harmful to the environment, using less pesticides, herbicides, and artificial fertilizers. i believe that with sensible legislation, which takes into account the need to develop verifiable systems for labelling gmos, europeans could reap the benefits of genetically modified food and feed - and at the same time avoid consuming them if they so wish.
mr president, on behalf of my group, the european parliamentary labour party, i should like to say that the vote today reflects our wish to advance beyond the moratorium and establish genuine traceability. consumers want to know the origins of what they eat and drink, where this can be established and tested. we need effective proposals to establish the lowest thresholds which can be measured and better definition of what can be properly described as gm free, rather than the ambiguous non-gm. we voted for the approvable threshold of 0.5%, above which the product must be gm labelled. but below that it cannot be guaranteed gm free. we need to create a climate in which labelling is an encouragement to move further to develop real gm-free areas of cultivation and production and not the pretence that we have delivered in this proposal.
in writing. - i welcome this report, which calls for measures to be taken to prevent industrial accidents in urban areas. the tragic events in toulouse, france, and those in the netherlands are tragic examples of the failure of current legislation to protect european citizens effectively. only when the eu has a harmonised hazard assessment of dangerous substances can we be sure that everything is being done to avoid potential disasters. in conclusion, i welcome the call for sanctions to be taken against landlords who do not comply with existing and future legislation. furthermore, since subcontractors form a significant part of the sector, it is crucial that such measures go far enough to include them.
in writing. - the uk delegation of the epp-ed group will vote against this report, as it proposes to increase eu interference in areas which are not currently within its competence.
the council. - mr president, commissioner, dear former colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, as everyone knows, the world food summit 'five years later' was held in rome from 10 to 13 june 2002. the aim of the meeting was to strengthen international support for increased efforts to combat hunger and poverty with a view to achieving the target of halving the number of hungry people in the world by 2015. this objective was reaffirmed at the un millennium summit in september 2000 and is now a fundamental element of the international development goals to which the world community has committed itself. the eu attaches great importance to these millennium summit goals as a starting point for national and international poverty reduction strategies. since the world food summit in 1996, the number of hungry people in the world has fallen, but unfortunately far from the level needed. the average reduction in the number of hungry people today is only 6 million, despite the fact that renewed and strengthened efforts are needed to achieve the necessary average annual reduction of 22 million in the number of hungry people if we are to reach our objective. the summit resulted in a declaration entitled 'the international alliance against hunger', which could be adopted on the first day of the meeting. under this title, the international community commits itself to strengthening and coordinating its efforts to combat hunger. the eu worked during the preparation process to ensure that the declaration maintained the commitments made at the 1996 world food summit and did not dilute what they had already agreed. at the same time, the eu sought to ensure that the outcomes of the most important international conferences and summits of recent times, including, in particular, the un millennium summit in 2000 and the international conference on financing for development in monterrey in march 2002, were taken forward and linked to the forthcoming world summit on sustainable development in johannesburg, where the issue of fighting hunger and poverty will be addressed as an integral part of the overall international development policy agenda. in line with the conclusions of the barcelona european council, the eu placed emphasis on two parallel commitments. firstly, the developing countries have the primary responsibility for their own development and for the implementation of the 1996 world food summit action plan. secondly, the responsibility of the international community to assist the poorest countries in this process. it was also crucial for the eu to ensure that efforts to combat hunger and poverty should be taken within the framework of developing countries' own priorities and poverty reduction strategies. production promotion measures are essential, but they are not the only solution to the problems. global food production is now large enough to feed everyone. in a number of developing countries, it is particularly a question of ensuring the distribution of and access to food. hunger is a poverty problem. therefore, broad-based poverty-targeted economic growth and improved economic distribution policies that benefit the poorest populations are essential to a sustainable solution to the world's hunger problems. efforts to combat hunger must therefore also include objectives such as good governance, respect for human rights, land reform and increased focus on health, education and production-oriented research and dissemination. in addition, consideration should be given to the sustainable use of natural resources and the importance of ensuring conflict prevention. finally, access to research and technology in developing countries is an essential element in the fight against hunger and poverty. all these elements were highlighted by the european union in its proposal for the negotiations. in the international arena, the eu stressed the need to increase overall aid to the internationally agreed target of 0.7% of gdp for development aid. the european parliament has also called for the commitments made in monterrey in march to be confirmed. the access of the poor countries to the markets of the west is of course an essential element in the efforts to promote their development. the eu has already taken the lead in launching the everything but arms initiative, which as we know means that the eu gives the less developed countries duty-free and quota-free access to the european market for all products except arms, or almost all products except arms. the eu also stressed in the negotiations the importance of safe food for consumers in all countries. at the same time, we stressed the need to provide technical assistance to enable developing countries to meet internationally recognised food standards. it was important to the eu that the discussion of trade and development did not prejudice the wto negotiations and the follow-up to the doha development agenda. in its conclusions of 30 may 2002 on the preparation of the world summit on sustainable development, the council confirmed the eu's commitment to the successful implementation of the doha development agenda within the agreed deadline. the eu is committed to achieving sustainable results on all fronts, including substantially increased market access opportunities, including for developing countries. this shall be based on balanced rules and targeted sustainably funded technical assistance and capacity building programmes. the summit declaration reflects to a large extent the priorities and the position of the european union which i have just outlined. the declaration focuses on consolidating the results of the 1996 world food summit and subsequent international conferences and on a strengthened and renewed political will to take active action to achieve the international development goals of fighting hunger and poverty. the declaration launches a new initiative on the right to food. it was agreed that an intergovernmental working group should be set up to develop voluntary guidelines on the right to food with the assistance of the fao and the involvement of all other relevant un bodies with competence in the field of human rights. the developing countries hope that such guidelines will give renewed emphasis to the need to ensure access to food for the poor countries and thus to combat hunger. the eu supports the initiative and will be an active player in the work to make the right to food a practical tool. the overall outcome of the summit can be considered satisfactory, depending on the circumstances. the result paves the way for the further discussions we will have at the world summit in johannesburg in august, where we will tackle the broad development agenda. the balanced result is due not least to the active participation of the eu in the negotiations. i should like to take this opportunity to thank the outgoing presidency of the council for its efforts. the president of the council, prime minister aznar, represented the eu at the summit. he stressed the need to ensure that the the eu's strong support for a stronger commitment to the fight against hunger and the eu's position on the themes of the summit were explained in detail. the eu was able to create a constructive climate of negotiation and effective cooperation with the developing countries, with whom we reached agreement on a number of issues which are now reflected in the declaration. at the same time, the eu was closely involved in the final decisive negotiations on the most controversial issues. the eu as a whole played a not insignificant role in ensuring the progress of the negotiations and a sensible outcome. i would like to conclude by stressing that the eu is already making a major effort to help combat hunger and poverty, both through eu assistance and through the eu countries' own bilateral and multilateral aid programmes. the eu and its member states provide over 50% of total global development assistance, much of which is devoted to rural development and the agricultural sector in the poorest countries. the eu and its member states have already committed themselves to substantially increasing their development aid at the barcelona european council in march this year. several eu member states, including my own country denmark, are already well above the international target of devoting 0.7% of gdp to development aid. all countries have committed themselves to keeping to or above the 0.7% target if they are already above it. those member states which have not yet reached the target have committed themselves to increasing their development assistance to at least the current eu average of 0.33% of gdp, so as to achieve an overall eu average of 0.39% by 2006. it is on the basis of these efforts and on the basis of binding partnerships with the developing countries that the eu will continue to work, also under the danish presidency, including in johannesburg, to strengthen the international fight against hunger and poverty.
commission. – for the commission and the european union the summit provided an opportunity to renew the dialogue with developing countries concerning the implementation of the rome plan of action and to confirm our political will to fight against hunger and malnutrition. the outcome of the summit was the adoption of a declaration containing many good elements that i hope will support and contribute to the promotion of coordinated action in order to achieve the 1996 summit target. in this spirit, the summit decided to set up an intergovernmental working group with the participation of all stakeholders in order to elaborate, within a period of two years, a set of voluntary guidelines on the right to adequate food. the objective of the guidelines is to support the efforts of the member states of fao to achieve the progressive realisation of the right to adequate food in the context of national food security. time will tell what the impact of this decision will be. we are certainly willing to be part of that effort and to make sure that it is going in the right direction. the adoption of such a declaration supported by the whole fao membership has certainly raised the profile of the fight against hunger on the international agenda. the commission welcomes this positive achievement and is happy to see that the declaration reflects the views of the eu on many issues. however, in our opinion the declaration misses a key strategic line, one that has been consistently supported by the eu: the importance of elements other than agricultural production and productivity in addressing food insecurity. it is essential that the issues i will mention here be addressed simultaneously and in the framework of national poverty reduction strategies. these essential elements are: food availability, production, strategic reserves and trade in food; access to food – for example economic growth, employment, income, to make this access realistic; response to crisis situations, such as safety nets; and nutritional problems, which, in the long term, constitute the main element in all this. in particular, the summit failed to clearly denounce and clarify the most crucial overriding causes of hunger, which are bad governance and man-made disasters. some estimates say that about 80% of the people suffering from hunger are victims of conflicts – man-made problems. there are different versions of this. zimbabwe is one such case. the problems in zimbabwe are, to a great extent, man-made. there is also a very real drought in southern africa. of course we will provide humanitarian aid, but it should be kept in mind that a lot of this is man-made. the fao’s public statements and appeals during the preparation process and the summit itself have been placing too much emphasis on additional oda resources and on the role of agriculture and rural development. the issue of oda has already been reasonably successfully treated in the monterrey conference, and the eu remains committed both to the monterrey consensus and the clear commitments on increased oda that were decided in barcelona and presented in monterrey, and which the danish minister has just gone through in greater detail. in rome, it would have been more appropriate to re-emphasise one of the main themes of recent summits and conferences: the crucial need for developing countries to overhaul their national development and sectoral policies in order to take due account of the needs and constraints of the rural poor and food insecurity. this should lead to the formulation of national poverty-reduction strategies, including food security concerns, focusing on agriculture and rural development as appropriate. it would then be the role of the donor community to support the implementation of national policies and strategies in a coordinated manner. the european parliament contributed to the international debate through the adoption on 16 may 2002 of the resolution on the summit. the commission agrees with the thrust of this resolution, which contains many important elements, such as support for the monterrey consensus and the emphasis on the need for increased policy coherence in developed countries. in particular, the commission welcomes parliament’s reminder that food aid must be reserved for emergencies and must be granted solely in the form of donations, with supplies being purchased whenever possible locally or within the region. nevertheless, the commission does not endorse all the elements contained in that resolution, and in particular not the call made on the commission itself and on eu member states to contribute to the fao trust fund established last year. i do regret that the same calls for contributions to that fund are contained in some of the motions presented to this part-session of parliament. the opinion of the commission remains the same as it was on the occasion of the last debate. the ec policy is to directly support national and regional development processes and programmes in the context of its regional partnership agreements. i am also firmly convinced that the multiplication of funding instruments, such as separate trust funds, etc., will not lead to the generation of additional financial flows but will only add to the diversion of funds. the commission also agrees with the longstanding policy of the european union that the fao should concentrate its resources where it has the best capabilities and added value, and that is in its normative work. the orientation of the possible actions under the trust fund appears to be outside of that area. i would, therefore, not want the commission to encourage this. moreover, the fao’s food security approach is very much production-driven and does not promote the broader concept of food security. we are, however, cooperating financially with the fao on specific projects and programmes and will continue to do so, whenever we can see competence, added value and professional excellence that match the priorities and objectives of the community’s development policy. the commission therefore does not consider contributing to the fao special programme for food security and to the trust fund as a priority in its development cooperation. i would add here that parliament's resolution of 16 may 2002 was adopted, pursuant to rule 37(2) of the rules of procedure, following the debate on the statement made by the commission without any prior consultation with the commission. so i have made quite specific reference to the new drafts in my speech here today. considering the key role of rural development and agriculture in fighting poverty, food insecurity and environmental degradation, the commission will present, before the end of the year, a communication to the council and parliament on “fighting rural poverty – an ec policy and approach to rural development and sustainable natural resources management in developing countries”. in closing i would like to recall that this world food summit is a step in a long process, which started in doha and monterrey and which will end in less than two months in johannesburg. it is my conviction that each of the major conferences that have taken place since doha are not a response on their own to the global governance gap that we are facing. only the totality of these different conferences give a meaningful response to the challenges of sustainable development and it is this totality that defines what we like to call the global deal.
mr president, today is my mother's 97th birthday and in her lifetime she has seen wars and famines, poverty and plagues, and she has also seen our world find the knowledge to prevent and defeat these global ills. but she has not yet lived to see the leaders of our world unite, to use that knowledge to bring peace and health and the means to live for the 800 million of our fellow human beings who are hungry. she was 69 when the first world food conference pledged everyone must be free from hunger – not everyone except 400 million – everyone. she was 91 when the world food summit abandoned that pledge and set a target of halving the world's hungry to 400 million by 2015. now we know that this appallingly modest target will not even be met until 2030. in the second half of my mother's life, 400 million people have died of hunger – three times the numbers killed in wars in her lifetime. on this her birthday another 24,000 will die. surely we could have expected that the rome summit would have agreed an action plan to stop this slaughter. surely the leaders of the western world would have supported a programme to address the causes of hunger: poverty, conflict, disease, sanitation, bad governance, man-made disasters, and inadequate local food production and distribution, the very points that you, commissioner, raised in your letter of 20 june to mr diouf on the failings of the summit. you were right, but you were excessively polite. you might have started by condemning the eu member states, of whom only italy the host, and spain the presidency, sent heads of government. the british labour government did not even send mr blair, did not send the passionate clare short. no, they sent a junior official, a member of the dfid's – quote – "knowledge-sharing on special initiatives unit". that is how much they cared. where was the passion? the italian press made it clear that the delegates were more interested in the dolce vita than in fighting world hunger. the summit took two and a half years to put together. it cost millions. it was so well organised that the final document was agreed before the summit began. and what a declaration! it recalls, recognises, reaffirms, reiterates and then goes on to do it all again. the new policy to help the hungry of the world is not "everything but arms", but anything but lift your arms to do anything. one recommendation sums it up – and the commissioner quoted it: "we invite the fao to establish an intergovernmental working group to elaborate in a period of two years a set of voluntary guidelines for member states to achieve the progressive realisation of the right to adequate food". what a message of hope for the hungry. what a cop-out. think nothing, see nothing, do nothing. no new thoughts, no new vision, no new initiatives and no urgency. in 2015, and no doubt in 2030 too, we will be back regretting lack of progress, extending deadlines, reducing targets, setting up working parties and failing to help the hungry nations to solve their needs. again we will issue emergency appeals for the consequences of our inaction today. now we move to johannesburg and our message must be: "wake up europe, wake up the western world". for once overcome this political sleeping sickness that seems to paralyse us in the face of disasters that together we have the power to prevent.
mr president, i have no doubt that most speakers today will criticise the united states, although not of course india, china, russia and sri lanka. and they will perhaps criticise israel. these are countries that have voiced objections to the rome statute, or have refused to ratify it. the us actions in the security council will not in themselves threaten the mission in bosnia, but indicate the seriousness of america's concerns, the most important of which is the possible prosecution of its civilian and military leaders for serious crimes committed abroad by its military personnel. the expanded definition of war crimes included in the statute and the much looser definition of command responsibility, looser than at nuremberg, mean that it is very possible that donald rumsfeld or his successor, on a visit to paris, might find himself under arrest for crimes committed by his subordinates, which he did not participate in, did not give the order for, or even have foreknowledge of, and for which there would be no question of his being tried in an american court. some might find that contrary to natural justice but there is no doubt that liberal governments and exponents of international civil society and universal jurisdiction such as amnesty have fully supported the coming into being of the icc, whilst ensuring a minimum of public debate over its flaws and its ability to cause political mischief for the americans. there are other problems. it is at least arguable that terrorists will be excluded from some of its provisions and there is a danger that justice will take precedence over amnesties that deliver long sought-after peace and reconciliation in countries such as angola, south africa, sri lanka or colombia, to name but a few. international justice is a noble principle, but america's concerns are very real and serious and it is perfectly entitled, as a sovereign nation, to pass the aspa and use article 98.2 of the rome statute, but not of course to use force against european nations such as holland. we should look for ways to meet these concerns, if necessary through altering the icc's statutes to tighten the provisions relating to command responsibility and giving the un security council a codecision role in the prosecuting process.
mr president, i am particularly pleased to speak on this report as i have taken a special interest in the revision of the timeshare directive, following numerous complaints that i have received from aggrieved holidaymakers in my own region in the united kingdom who have suffered at the hands of sometimes unscrupulous operators. in november last year the committee on legal affairs and the internal market instigated a public hearing on timeshares and a number of my constituents were able to come and explain their experiences directly to that hearing. i am very happy to say that many of the problems raised at the hearing, both in the oral presentations and the written dossier of evidence i submitted at the time, have been addressed. a particular concern has been the increase in holiday club, or points club operations, which, by the very nature of their membership rules, take advantage of current legislation, which does not cover contracts of under three years. i would therefore commend to the house the proposal to cover all contracts of this nature, thus shutting off the loophole that currently exists. furthermore, i am pleased to see that we have proposed that the handing over of credit card details be subject to the same cooling-off period as a deposit by any other means. i have heard in surgeries in my own constituency of stories of innocent holidaymakers unwittingly giving timeshare touts their credit card details, only to find on their return from holiday that significant amounts of money have been debited from their accounts. similarly, it is also vital that once contracts have been definitively signed, consumers are adequately protected against unreasonable increases in maintenance costs and, in cases where there has been malpractice, holidaymakers have easy recourse to legal redress. a significant hurdle to such redress is the cost of complainants undertaking often lengthy legal procedures in a country where they are not completely at ease with the process. we must therefore look at new ways of simplifying this procedure, perhaps allowing complainants to use their own national judicial systems if necessary. these measures represent essential steps towards genuine consumer protection for european holidaymakers purchasing this type of holiday. however, the current report is not a complete solution to all problems. i hope that members will be able to support my amendment to extend the cooling-off period to 28 calendar days from its current 10. this would give a real opportunity for people to consider, in the cold light of day when they return from holiday, whether they wish to go ahead with their purchase. i hope now that the commission can come forward with appropriate proposals for legislation as quickly as possible so that our eu citizens can enjoy all forms of timeshare holidays in complete peace of mind.
mr president, imagine, colleagues, that you are an intelligent and sensible person, you are on holiday in another eu country with your elderly and frail mother, you both end up being trapped for over half a day in an airless room by total strangers, offered little or no refreshment and, because there is a large gentleman blocking the door you feel your exit is cut off, so you end up signing a contract and paying a deposit for a timeshare product that you do not want. you return home to find that you have waved goodbye to the deposit of several thousand pounds and the company you dealt with is a worthless shell, constituted in some offshore haven. you have no chance of redress. yes, this is a true story. how many of us have heard hapless tales like this from our constituents, despite the existence of a timeshare directive? this report is timely. its contents need to be acted on now, not delayed for further studies and reports. but let me sound a note of caution. whilst it will have the support of the liberal group, i am not totally convinced that this raft of rather complex and different legislative and non-legislative initiatives will answer the problem. the simple problem, to my mind, is this: these timeshare scams are one of the most appalling signals that we do not have, that we have not created a single european area of justice. cross-border access to justice within the internal market is still fraught with many barriers for our citizens. few, if any, of these scams are perpetrated against citizens in their own member states. these rogues are only too easily able to profit from the lack of a single european civil area of justice. if they knew they would be pursued in their own countries they would think twice. i commend paragraph 15 of the report as a good starting point for bringing these contracts within the definition of consumer contracts. it is this sort of horizontal approach that will eventually provide the answer. if we have proper cross-border access to justice then the timeshare scam bandits will think twice before they prey on our holidaying constituents.
mr president, i also want to congratulate my colleague, mr medina ortega, and indeed his predecessor for the work that has been done on this directive. mr medina referred to action that had to be taken to implement this directive throughout the member states and the laggardly way in which they have done so. it has all been too little, too late. there is a fringe of fraudulent activities – the timeshare sharks. there are practices that exploit the time limits of the directive itself, the growth of holiday clubs, points clubs and so on. there is avoidance of the limited protection of the very brief cooling-off period which is, i fear, not universally implemented, again by the different member states. my colleague, mrs mccarthy and others join me in recommending a proper cooling-off period of 28 days where the contract is signed outside the buyer's country of residence, as is the normal procedure. in my own country the victims of timeshare fraud have banded together to try and demand action. one of my constituents, claire griffiths, who attended the public hearings here, organised boycotts of the agents in her area. they were successful in terms of the diminished business of those people, but the group is still waiting for proper redress and their money back. the association of timeshare owners is today organising a co-regulatory body to deal with the management of timeshare resorts, which has been one of the other matters at issue. our quarrel is not with them. i appreciate anything which is done in the field of co-regulation. however, they, and we, need action from the commission, either by a resolution or by a directive. that is the only way we can demonstrate our power here to protect the vulnerable against exploitation that is not merely callous but very often criminal as well.
the council. - mr president, i can only reply briefly to mr posselt that there is an ongoing dialogue with the russian government on the chechen problem. we should not underestimate this problem, and we do not underestimate it. it is an integral part of the dialogue with russia that this is discussed, and i do not deny that there can be a link between the problem of chechnya and the problems in georgia. so i agree with mr posselt in a way, i am merely saying that there is an ongoing dialogue on the matter, it is not forgotten, and that will also be apparent from later questions if we get to them.
i would also like to welcome mr haarder in his new role. i was spurred into action by mr haarder saying that he did not wish to awaken hope in some countries like georgia, to which mr dupuis referred. i know from my experience of romania – which is 11th or 12th in the list of countries waiting to join the eu – that the one thing that holds that country together is the light at the end of the tunnel, the hope that it will be able to join the european union, its rich neighbours, in a prosperous club. if you are saying to other countries – whether georgia or some of the former yugoslav republics – that we will not awaken hope for them, is there not the danger that they will be pushed into unrest, internal strife, possibly violence, and the pressures for migration to the west will be increased? president-in-office, would you clarify the position?
i also would like to express my pleasure at seeing the president-in-office of the council here. as a friend and colleague it is very nice to see him back and, if ever things go wrong in copenhagen, i am sure we would be very delighted to see him back in one of these seats. however, let us not talk about that bad possibility, until it happens. thank you for your answer to my question. i understand that the question of the seat is really for another place, though it would save a lot of energy if we eliminated this building. i am particularly interested since the eu institutions should be setting a lead. i hope we are setting an example to the world by trying to save on energy conservation. so i would suggest that if i table a question to the president-in-office for the december part-session, perhaps he will give me an undertaking that he will tell me specifically what the council has done with its own buildings as regards saving energy and setting an example to the world: energy-efficient light switches, for example, or any other measures that the council is going to adopt within the next six months to set an example to the world.
mr president, on behalf of the ppe-de group i should like to very much welcome mr wieland and congratulate him on all the work he has done over a long period. it has been a test of endurance and, as he says, it is a complex and technical report. he has struggled with it as a lawyer. i have to say that as an engineer i also found it difficult to work with. on reflection, bearing in mind this is a first reading, i would say to the commission tonight that it still has a lot more work to do on this with the council. in the light of the recent communication from mr prodi on simpler and better regulation, this is a candidate for the commission to have a further look at. after all, we are looking for a regulation that will make the internal market work and, as colleagues said, will also ensure a consistently high level of safety standards for users of machinery and people who work with them. having said that this is a technical directive, it is important that i say to the commission tonight that there are some important political signals contained in the work of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. in particular, there is an issue that mr miller and i have worked on – i know he will refer to it in a moment – which is the treatment of particular categories of lifts for disabled people, in particular those installed in private dwellings. we were disturbed when we saw the draft to find that this directive discriminated against this important category of machinery. this type of machinery operates very satisfactorily. it significantly improves the quality of life for disabled people, because it is installed in their own homes. i have seen these installations. they are engineered to very high standards of safety. we need to make sure that they are allowed to continue. it is not the business of this directive to take satisfactory equipment off the market without any basis for doing so. so we ask the commission to make sure that this machinery is properly included. some work still needs to be done; there are still some aspects to be considered. in conclusion, i want to say that we must put the internal market aspect to the fore, in particular the primacy of the ce markings. this is still not fully satisfactory.
mr president, i also add my thanks to mr wieland, the rapporteur. he has done a long and hard job on this. if he, as a lawyer, and mr harbour, as an engineer, found it difficult to understand this, can you please have some sympathy for myself as a milkman – i found it even harder. there are a couple of areas i would like to touch upon. i would like to add an oral amendment tomorrow to amendment no 14(2), because while we put in "seagoing vessels", i was remiss not to mention "inland waterway vessels". that has been pointed out to me and i have raised it with the rapporteur, who has agreed to its insertion through an oral amendment, which i hope everyone will support. i turn now to the point mr harbour raised about lift platforms. it might not be the most riveting of subjects but it is an important point, because it helps and assists thousands of people with disabilities throughout europe. i should like to point out that there is a mistake in the english version. the speed mentioned in the english version is "0.015 metres per second". that should read "0.15 metres per second". if the speed were to be reduced by a tenth, people would be dead by the time they reached the other end. lift platforms are slow enough, let us not make them any slower. i will not criticise the commission in this instance because it was not the commission that introduced the technicalities which would have made the lift platforms inoperable in this directive. that came during the discussion in the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. i lay no blame on the commission. i thank the rapporteur once again for accepting the amendments tabled by mr harbour and myself and which we have worked on for a long period of time. this is important, as i indicated, to thousands of people. those are the two main areas which i have identified as being pertinent and relevant. they are still being discussed in the council. there seems to be a blockage there and i hope that is resolved fairly quickly, because the whole question of lifts and lift platforms is important to a large number of people. we do not want to let them down. please get this resolved as quickly as possible.
deputizing for the rapporteur. – mr president, i wish to begin by apologising to parliament, on behalf of mr ceyhun, who has been stranded in germany and is unable to be here. so i have the pleasure of presenting his report on his behalf. can i say through you, mr president, to mr ceyhun that, as a non-german speaker, i am extremely grateful for the briefing notes that he has sent me in german, from which i will make my contribution this evening. i welcome this report, which is both ambitious and particularly welcome: a report that parliament has wanted for some time. i also welcome commissioner vitorino, because this report clearly shows the very high principles and commitment that he gives to this issue. we in parliament – certainly on my committee -are very grateful to him for the amount of work that he does. it is also a very topical and timely report. we have seen right-wing extremism and populism on the rise. we saw a very high vote for mr le pen in france and similar issues in other countries. where right-wingers are, racism and xenophobia are not far behind and we have to be very wary of that. colleagues will be aware that there is also a great deal of concern in europe at the moment about asylum and immigration. there are lots of horror stories presented by the press to misinform people. this report attempts to clarify the definition of what is racism and what is xenophobia and to make the actions that should be punished much clearer. our group and the committee welcomed the effort made by the commission to try to harmonise this legislation. the rapporteur also recognises the importance of protecting the right to free speech and, equally, the need to protect minorities and other groups. we must ensure that any new legislation does not stand in the way of these important european fundamental rights. as regards the penalties for transgressing these laws, individual governments must consider the recommendations that are made, and these vary from six months for some offences to two years for others. we must regard them as minimum points – as lowest common denominators – and we should be pressing countries to do more. mr ceyhun also refers in his report to the growing use of the internet, which is not just european but global and knows no boundaries. there is a considerable level of responsibility here that must fall on the internet service providers. they must be responsible for their sites, users and contents. that does not mean that they will always be responsible for everything that goes through their sites but they must be responsible for presenting racist and xenophobic material. more complex is the question of whether a prosecution is possible – the commissioner is a lawyer so he will know this – without the announcement of victims. perhaps member states should be responsible for this, since some of them are not happy about it. i now turn to the manufacture, distribution and the private possession of racist and xenophobic material. the rapporteur has looked very closely at the possibilities. we have to make absolutely clear that manufacture and production of such materials should be punishable. however, in many cases the private possession of such materials may not be punishable and it may not be desirable that it should be, because this would – if we took it to its logical consequence – prevent people from keeping, for example, old books, photos and other historical materials which would have to be destroyed en masse. the rapporteur looks to europol and eurojust to enforce the existing structures across europe, in cooperation with the judicial forces in each country. i am sure the exchange of data should help to improve the implementation of this framework decision. finally, the rapporteur has asked for periodic reports on the progress by the commission, how it is getting on, and this is customary practice. there is good support for this legislation across europe, across parties in the committee and from a whole range of ngos across europe. it is very timely legislation. i welcome the amount of work the commissioner has put into this, and i hope very much that parliament will give it its full support tomorrow and that we can press forward and make real progress on combating racist and xenophobic materials.
rapporteur. – mr president, there is something slightly surreal about rising this late at night to deal with infringements that took place more than two years ago and in circumstances where the commission has already come forward with proposals for reform. the exercise is nonetheless worthwhile for there are three main causes for concern; two are about the communication, one is about the proposal. the first is to do with delay. the commission communication that should have arrived in june arrived in november. the equivalent communication for 2001 is already more than one month overdue. i hope that the commission will be able to reassure the committee on fisheries that its appearance is imminent. the second relates to content. not all the member states reported, as required, in electronic form and the appropriate codes were not always used. some reports were incomplete or illegible. one member state did not report at all last year, although i understand it has subsequently done so. my own perusal suggests that member states were not entirely consistent in the way they classified infringements. some of the penalties appear to have been presented in aggregate form, making it difficult to identify the range imposed. all of this is regrettable, since, as the commission itself admits, it is impossible to draw clear, coherent conclusions. informal contacts with the commission suggest that there has been better reporting for 2001. the committee on fisheries hopes that they will afford a fuller and more developed analysis. for example, the number of offences reported by member states can only be properly understood in the context of the size of fleets involved. i hope the commissioner will not take it amiss if i suggest that one might expect considerably fewer offences to be reported from austria than from some other member states. more generally, and even with much better data, a cautious approach must be adopted to interpretation. does a higher percentage of offences reported mean that a higher percentage of offences has actually been committed or that there is simply a better detection rate? similarly, should the fines imposed be comparable in absolute terms or only in the context of the cost of living within the member states concerned? properly interpreted though, the information could be invaluable as a basis for dealing with infringements during the reform of the cfp. there is sufficient evidence in the communication to show that a wide difference of penalties exists. for example, in the case of falsification or failure to record data in logbooks the average in member states appears to range from eur 88 to eur 16 020. the committee on fisheries welcomes the fact that the commission has addressed the issue of harmonised penalties in chapter 5 of its proposals on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources. this brings me, however, to the third point of concern: the wording does not fully address the points in our report. first, there is our call for the use of objective criteria in classifying and rating the types of behaviour and penalties concerned. in this regard, we would stress the potential usefulness, properly interpreted, of the kind of data to which this report refers. secondly, the report calls for a uniform system of minimum penalties whereas the proposal makes no mention of a minimum. even in the case of a serious infringement, some types of activity may be more serious than others. it is not unreasonable to expect that a distinction be made between a first and a repeat offence or between cases where the behaviour was clearly deliberate and where a genuine mistake was made. what is important for justice is not that all cases are treated the same but rather that like cases are treated alike.on these grounds and taking into account the whole doctrine of the separation of powers, it would seem unacceptable not to allow a measure of judicial administrative discretion in these respects. with this caveat, i believe we can move a long way towards establishing a principle of equal treatment that, along with measures such as the establishment of regional advisory councils, will do much to create confidence in the common fisheries policy on the part of our fishing communities. we look forward to the commissioner's detailed proposals in this regard. the commissioner may be assured that we will scrutinise them well.
mr president, firstly i would like to begin by reading a short speech by my colleague, mrs langenhagen, who cannot be with us this evening. in her words, "this week the danish presidency took off and regarding fisheries it will be a difficult task. we are at a crossroads and unfortunately we are late. have a look at the fish stocks in our waters and you will see that there is no time to be lost. in my opinion the two reports we are discussing now show clearly the need for action. there is a lack of cooperation in some member states, and that hinders proper implementation of the cfp. controls must be strengthened, sanctions must be established with the same level overall in the eu. i am therefore convinced that with this reform of the cfp, europe has to regain credibility. a major reform will only be successful if the men on board understand what brussels imposes and believe in the success of the measures to be taken. clearly we also want to fish in the next decade and beyond, so let us join forces and find the right solution." i will now continue in my own words. the rapporteur, mr busk, has done an excellent job, as has mrs attwooll, in writing these reports. i commend them for their worthwhile and committed efforts. however, to use an english phrase, these measures are akin to closing the stable door after the horse has bolted. we are only being forced to introduce such drastic measures thanks to the total failure of the cfp. it is now widely accepted that this policy has been an unmitigated disaster and to a large extent has led to the environmental and economic catastrophe we now find ourselves in. i accept and support the need for the immediate implementation of checks and monitoring of the fishing fleets in european waters. we must use all the measures available, particularly satellite technology, and this must be rigorously and evenly enforced by all member states if it is to have any effect. the commission has recommended that 6- and 12-mile limits should be retained in order to protect sensitive inshore fisheries. it is interesting to note that in the original draft to the cfp reform proposals, which were widely leaked in march, the commission stated that 6- and 12-mile limits should become a permanent feature of the cfp without any time limitation. that was how it put it. now mysteriously that has disappeared to be replaced by a simple reaffirmation of the need for 12-mile limits. despite mr fischler's assurances that he did not succumb to the bullying by spanish prime minister, mr aznar, it seems that spanish threats to take the commission to court over open-access agreements may have borne fruit. these changes are hugely disappointing and hugely worrying. i would welcome an explanation as to why they occurred. it is essential that we see real management responsibility with the 12-mile limits given back to the member states involved. greater responsibility for conservation management measures and enforcement relating to all those vessels of any nationality operating within those zones must fall to member states. as far as the controversial issue of discards is concerned, it is time to sort out this whole sorry mess once and for all. we cannot continue the policy which leads to overall 2 million tonnes of healthy fish – 25% of all fish caught in the eu – being dumped dead back into the sea every year. uk fishermen are outraged at discards, which continually account for nearly 50% of catches. much of this problem can be traced to the way in which we operate tacs and quotas. let us be clear about this. tacs and quotas were introduced in the cfp, not for conservation purposes, but to aid in the process of sharing out fishing rights. however, there are many who would argue that "fair" is not a word that can be applied to the cfp. when the uk entered the cfp in 1972, the agreement which we reached was a body blow to the british fishing industry. in closing, in many people's eyes the cfp is drinking in the last-chance saloon. there is too much at stake to get it wrong a second time.
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has been working. the two reports, which will be discussed together in this debate, deal with the implementation of the common fisheries policy. i very much welcome your support, mr busk, and that of the committee on fisheries for the commission's report on monitoring the implementation of the common fisheries policy. we agree that controls and enforcement are key issues in the common fisheries policy. however, the improvements made by member states in monitoring and enforcement have so far been a patchwork of improvements. the fishermen therefore rightly feel that they are treated differently. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. we have followed the debate in the european parliament on this report with great attention. i take note of your recommendations. i will present to the commission in the second half of this year an action plan for greater cooperation on control and enforcement and on joint fisheries surveillance. the aim of this action plan will be to improve the effectiveness of control and enforcement, but above all to ensure a more uniform implementation of the common fisheries policy. you asked for a list of sanctions in your report. the commission welcomes this. the basis for this is the proposals for reform of the common fisheries policy. as soon as they are adopted, we will also submit such a list to the european parliament and the council. i would like to say to mrs attwooll that i would like to express my gratitude for her positive opinion of our communication. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the marine environment, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january. the infringements concern, for example, non-compliance with the rules on licences, authorised fishing gear or the issue of landings and controls. the following basic problems were encountered in drawing up our first communication: firstly, most member states have submitted the data much too late and not in the required format, which should allow computerised processing, which has been made more difficult by this omission. secondly, one member state, france, preferred not to provide any information at all. thirdly, some member states have only partially provided information. i can now say that in the meantime all the member states have complied with the requirements of regulation 2740/99. but this approach, which was adopted at the beginning, makes it very, very difficult to compare the situations in the member states. however, the information provided allowed us to draw the following conclusions: first, most infringements concern fishing without a fishing permit for a certain area. secondly, in some member states the offence is punishable by criminal law, in others by administrative law only. thirdly, there are wide differences in penalties between member states. often, the penalties are not designed to be a deterrent at all. we have therefore put forward specific proposals in the context of the reform of the cfp. we need uniform rules to enforce the common fisheries policy. the sanctions must be effective and also appropriate to deprive the person responsible of the economic benefit of the infringement, and we need measures to prevent the repetition of serious infringements. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules. the commission was therefore also unable to meet the deadline for the second communication, namely 1 june 2002. i therefore welcome the request that parliament be informed by 15 april in future of the member states which have not complied with their reporting obligations. i'll be happy to do that so that the public can see who is lazy and who is not.
mr president, i wish to raise a point of order concerning something mrs plooij-van gorsel said the other day. it came to my notice yesterday that the problem of the drivers had been considerably eased by the addition of many people coming back from their holidays from the brussels-based group. parliament ought to thank them for their support in making sure that we had a smooth transition back to normal transport here in strasbourg. might i suggest that, if the french are unable to continue to support us, we consider moving, if not to brussels then to luxembourg, where there is a large hemicycle and where i am sure they would look after us extremely well.
mr president, firstly i echo mrs dybkjær's comments and thank the commissioner also for her work. on behalf of the verts/ale group i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on what is a very comprehensive and fair balance of criticism for the shortcomings in the commission's work, praise for the achievements of the work programme and also constructive suggestions for work in the future. the support that the report received in committee was a reflection of this. we are only too aware, as other speakers have said, that we have a long way to go in terms of gender equality within the eu institutions, as well as in society as a whole. we could not have a clearer reflection of this than the make-up of the convention on the future of europe. only 16% of the members are women on a body which is directly involved in planning the whole future of europe. this report addresses the means of achieving gender equality in the labour market, employment, decision-making, social inclusion, lifelong learning, health and so on. the rapporteur has addressed these issues in a very focused way and gives very clear guidelines to the commission on the kind of measures that parliament would like to see adopted. in terms of actions for 2002, i would particularly like to welcome the commission's commitment to providing gender-specific data, gender progress indicators and gender impact assessments in policy areas that have not yet been mainstreamed. we know that this information is essential when forming and assessing equality legislation. time and time again in reports and opinions we have condemned the lack of appropriate data on which to base our analyses. this has to be addressed now, as other speakers have said. i would also like to mention some of the new commission proposals noted in this report, such as the conference on rural women to be held in october. this is extremely important given the crisis that many of our rural areas have suffered, particularly in the past 18 months and the specific needs of women who live and work in rural areas. equality in foreign policy and international relations is again a vital issue. the proposed conference could not only draw attention to this but give us a better understanding of its significance in all of our international work. as mrs avilés perea said, gender should be central to the round-table discussion on social exclusion and poverty. the work programme for 2002 is more developed and ambitious than this year and hopefully on the basis of this report we can make significant progress.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on development and cooperation. – i congratulate my friend and colleague mrs gillig as rapporteur. her report for the committee on employment and social affairs is parallel in many ways to mine on corporate social responsibility. we have worked together to ensure a consistent and complementary set of proposals is put to parliament, and i should like to thank her very much for that. on behalf of the committee on development, i want to stress four points in particular. firstly, whilst we very much welcome the commission's commitment to the inclusion of core labour standards in the enhanced gsp and in its trade agreements – we have seen evidence of that already in the south africa trade agreement and the cotonou agreement – we stress in paragraph 11 of this resolution that new emphasis must be placed on practical implementation. for too long the human rights and democracy clauses in the eu's international agreements have committed us to the finest ideals, but they have not been subject to monitoring, reporting and systematic dialogue between the parties. such clauses on core labour standards have to become the means to actual enforcement and that is the test for the commission in following up this communication. secondly, as we say in paragraph 12, that implementation has to be part of development cooperation programmes too – not just fine words in country strategy papers but real, quantifiable programmes, assisting developing country governments to establish and operate effective labour inspectorates and giving direct aid to developing country trade unions and other civil society and watchdog groups, to provide an independent voice in tackling abuses such as child and forced labour. thirdly, core labour standards are universal. there must be no exceptions and that means the abuses which are systematically accepted in the massive informal sector in many developing countries, and deliberately encouraged in export-processing zones in many more too, have to come to an end. europe has to be part of making that happen. finally, specifically on corporate social responsibility, i welcome the commission's new commitment to promote and enact the oecd guidelines for multinational enterprise in its white paper this week and i repeat – as we do in paragraph 15 – the ultimate aim is a binding eu code of conduct for multinational enterprise. today's vote and report brings that aim one step closer.
mr president, i welcome the opportunity to contribute to this debate, however briefly. i also welcome the fact that so many colleagues are pouring into the house at this moment, clearly to hear what i have to say. i wanted to contribute because, as colleagues on the other side of the house know, there are differences between groups on the important issue of corporate social responsibility. mr howitt made a very important observation when, at the start of this debate, he said that he had been working in parallel with mrs gillig on this report. "parallel" is a very good choice of word because parallel lines are separate lines and do not meet. it is important that csr, as a subject, should not be seen as a catch-all for everything that everyone wants businesses to do better. also it is important that the core labour standards – these ilo standards – are given the dedication and focus needed for their implementation, as indeed the rapporteur so eloquently pointed out. clearly there is much work, collectively, that we need to do on this. i thank the rapporteur for accepting two of my amendments in particular. one was that globalisation can be positive, creating opportunities for real growth and development. i say to mrs jensen that this is still very much in the body of the report. the other was that a major driver of social cohesion is full employment. all of us need to be much more positive and proactive in this regard. finally, i would observe that the rapporteur has accepted the commissioner's conclusions. we, across the house, will be supporting the rapporteur's conclusions. there is a real danger of consensus breaking out all over the place. i congratulate the rapporteur on her work in making this possible.
mr president, under amendment no 14(2)(f), i should like to add the following words after "seagoing vessels": "inland waterway vessels". it was remiss of me at committee to have missed that out. i have raised it with the rapporteur and he is in agreement with this.
mr president, i did not want to speak until the vote on the second part had been taken. i would like to point out that in the second part there is a technical error in the english version. the speed should be 0.15 metres per second, whereas in the english text gives it as 0.015 metres per second. the former is correct.
in writing. - racism is undoubtedly a dangerous and unacceptable phenomenon. however, britain has developed its own laws to deal with this phenomenon in a way that best fits its national context and reflects the improvement in interracial relations (at least until 1997). it is extremely difficult to prove the crime of xenophobia and british criminal law does not allow for it as such. we therefore prefer to stick to our own policies and sanctions regime. if implemented, this framework decision will further challenge traditional values of freedom of expression, which can only harm - not benefit - the good relations between races that we all want to see. the british conservatives do not like to abstain in the fight against racism, but in this case they have to do so for the reasons mentioned above.
in writing. - the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat racism and xenophobia. by extending the definition of what constitutes racist behaviour to include acts which may be considered threatening, insulting or abusive, this resolution represents a consolidation of the principles of freedom and human rights which are the basis of the eu and its member states.
mr president, it was a matter of great satisfaction to us all that the medina ortega report was adopted by such a decisive majority. it really is an important issue for many of our constituents to regulate better the timeshare industry and related activities. many people in the european union – and certainly many of my own constituents – have had serious complaints about fraudulent behaviour and mistreatment at the hands of sharks operating in this market. this is very unfortunate because there are many honest, decent and appropriate operators, for example those represented by the organisation for timeshare in europe, from which i have received important help in relation to my constituents. i am sure others have too. the real problem is the regulation of fraudulent behaviour and making sure that people in particularly vulnerable situations are adequately protected against it. the risk of sectoral legislation about one particular kind of fraud is that you simply regulate one part and leave on the margins new forms of fraud, which is unregulated or left under only general criminal law regulation. it will be important for the commission to study that carefully and bring forward stronger proposals to us. it is a matter of real concern to all our citizens that this should be done properly. we call upon the commission now to follow up the excellent report of my friend and colleague, mr medina ortega.
mr president, like sir neil maccormick i welcome this report, particularly now it is amended to give it more teeth. when we adopted our original timeshare legislation i hoped that the long queue of people coming to see me about problems would come to an end. indeed, they did for a while but they started again because as soon as one set of legislation is established, fraudsters will then move on to something else. the latest scam is basically establishing so-called holiday clubs. i welcome the fact that we are taking action on this. it is important to remember that, in terms of the approach to the citizens of the european union, it is our ability to take action on issues like this which is very important so that people recognise that they are part of a citizens' europe and that if they have problems in one country, they can make representation through the legal system properly. fortunately, as sir neil said, we now have a number of organisations which are working very hard in this sector and the situation has improved. however, we need to deal with the fraudsters who spread so much misery.
in writing. - the commission must redouble its efforts to ensure a fairer environment and greater cooperation between the parties concerned. fishermen must be involved in the development and enforcement of the rules through a zone-based management system, which will make the rules more acceptable and their implementation more effective. effective supervision and control requires appropriate budgetary and human resources. one of the main concerns with the commission's proposals for reform of the cfp is that it aims at free access to the north sea and abandons the management of an area whose fisheries resources are close to collapse to tacs and quota systems. without a guaranteed investment in control and monitoring, the north sea could fall into general disorder, which could lead to further stock collapse and the death sentence of fragile fishing communities. i therefore call on the commission to take these concerns into account and to ensure that a fair environment is created. there is no reason to open access to the north sea to everyone when the current system is clearly not considered to be fair or adequately resourced to ensure that illegal fishing is eradicated - and there is no evidence that it is.
in writing. - mr president, i wholeheartedly support this report which focuses on the importance of local labour markets. when considering employment rates, too often the focus is on the macroeconomic environment, whereas local labour markets make a considerable contribution to the overall smooth functioning and dynamism of the economy. with the eu increasingly focusing on employment, largely under the auspices of the lisbon strategy, the call for a bottom-up approach is very welcome. local operators, who are familiar with the local context, are best placed to consider any changes required by the local economy. the report is also to be commended for its strong focus on all the components of local economies: the promotion of entrepreneurship among women, for example, is relatively innovative and could open the way to new forms of innovation and economic growth.
in writing. - mr president, i welcome this resolution which aims to promote basic labour standards. the trend towards increasing economic interdependence and globalisation is a reality we all have to deal with. this does not mean, however, that workers' rights and social governance must be undermined. the long-awaited call for a greater balance between social and economic concerns is indeed welcome. the invitation to candidate and third countries to ratify ilo conventions is a practical and desirable means of ensuring that the ilo is taken seriously. finally, i welcome the call for more dialogue and a stronger link between the ilo and other international organisations, such as the wto and the world bank. these institutions may appear to be mutually exclusive, but both 'parties' could learn a great deal from each other and cooperate more effectively.
mr president, when i was in the british parliament i co-chaired the all-party somali group and i, and my labour colleague, represented ports of britain which had substantial somali residents. that was because of the tradition of people from british somaliland serving in the british merchant navy. as a result of that i learnt a lot about somalia and somaliland and i particularly learned what a complex area it is. i learnt that in the old flag there were five stars, one for each of the five somali nations: french somalia, which is now djibouti; the british part of somaliland, which is now part of somalia; the british part of kenya, which was made up of somalis; the italians with southern somalia, which is now very much somalia; and the ethiopians in ogaden. as has been said, the ogadeni somali community led to a war between somalia and ethiopia in an attempt to reunite the somali peoples. it is the european union's duty to help all the somali nations. it is also our duty to understand their history. that is what they need now. they need political solutions that respect the five traditions, and support also for the economy, education, health, infrastructure and the security of those nations. in 1996 somalia ranked 172 out of 174 countries on the undp's human development index. it was par excellence a least-developed country. recent history has seen wars and destruction resulting from that. we have over 100 aid agencies working in somalia. as the commissioner has highlighted, the european union and the member states are the largest donors to the area, giving some eur 60 million in all, compared with eur 26 million from the americans. but let us also remember the somali diaspora, which brings back some eur 400 million per annum to the country. yet the average lifespan has fallen from 48 in 1990 to 45 in 1997; infant mortality is 125 per 1 000 live births; one in eight babies dies in the first year; 4 000 women die in childbirth every year. we have problems that are no longer just a result of civil war but are due to famine, the weather, contaminated water, abysmal sanitation and desertification. only between 10% and 20% of children, depending on the region, attend school. women are abused. they have little, if any, educational opportunities. nearly 100% female circumcision is practised. there is a lost generation of somali professionals – doctors, teachers, civil servants – who fled the country before the war and have not returned. the worst of the crisis is in southern somalia, in central areas such as galcaio, which was devastated at the peak of the troubles and is now being rebuilt, even with street lighting being reinstalled. we should not forget the progress that is being made in somaliland: charity maternity hospitals are being built and opened, and there is a nurse training school. in hargeisa unskilled wages are now twice the rate they are in nairobi. in other words, political stability in some regions is bringing recovery and the hunger elsewhere is caused partly by fighting, although only sporadically, but much more by the drought. so our task must be to support aid and sustainable development projects and to look for political solutions. we must support the transitional government. we must also remember that areas like somaliland have voted twice now – in the 1960s and again in 2001 – in a referendum to have independence. that is their choice. they have elected governments. it shows that somalia is a complex region. there are some areas of despair and desolation. there are also areas of regeneration and stability. we need to rescue the hungry and vulnerable, support moves to bring political stability, but also respect the various traditions of those five somali nations so that they can come together through these conferences to live as neighbours in peace and prosperity.
mr president, this parliament has been a consistent critic of the mugabe dictatorship in zimbabwe, a country which, 20 years ago, was deemed to be a model for a prosperous, multi-racial african democracy. however, after the slaughter of thousands in matabeleland the zanu-pf government has brought the country to the verge of economic collapse and starvation. the march presidential elections were a travesty of democracy, with repression of a free press and the mdc opposition leader now on trial for treason. mugabe has rewarded his cronies – or so-called ‘veterans’ – with confiscated white farmers' land. the land acquisition act is even now preventing the harvesting of the crops to feed the hungry. the eu sanctions have been poorly applied, with the minster of police recently attending an interpol function in spain and mugabe attending a hunger conference in rome, which is a clear affront to world opinion. children of the regime's leaders are allegedly attending expensive british boarding schools. the new partnership for african development and the eu troika have been supine in galvanising regional – particularly south african and nigerian – opinion against the president. although zimbabwe faces expulsion from the commonwealth on 25 july, the government seems more concerned with prosecuting a disastrous war in the democratic republic of congo in order to safeguard mugabe's cronies' diamond mining interests. i strongly urge the general affairs council, on 22 july, to beef up the sanctions and to allow no excuses from member states that their multilateral treaty obligations override the sanction restrictions. i also call on the commonwealth to suspend zimbabwe from the forthcoming commonwealth games on 25 july in manchester. ordinary people can rest assured that the eu will continue to provide emergency humanitarian aid in order to prevent undue suffering and a total breakdown in civil society.
mr president, it is quite clear from the previous speeches that the situation in zimbabwe is one of clear and total demoralisation amongst the people living there. president mugabe has presided over the destruction of a once vibrant country. not only that, but he has reduced what was once one of the strongest economies in africa to the depths of despair. while we all condemn this, we have stood by and watched his henchmen murder innocent white farmers and be rewarded by the president for their actions. nobody should stand by and allow this to happen. yet the world has stood idly by and allowed it to happen. that must not continue. i agree with mr tannock when he says zimbabwe should be removed from the commonwealth. it should not be allowed to take part in the commonwealth games. but you will not resolve the problems of the long-suffering people of zimbabwe by simply turning a blind eye and pretending they do not exist, nor by allowing president mugabe to leave the country and attend conferences. it is high time that strong sanctions were imposed. we should be prepared to help, and make clear that we are prepared to help a democratic zimbabwe rebuild, because a democratic zimbabwe could once again flourish in the african continent. i have no hesitation in saying that. zimbabwe was once the bread basket of africa. zimbabwe was once a flourishing country and it could be again. but it cannot be if we stand by and pay lip service to a despot like mugabe, who is not only destroying his country and his people, but ensuring that the aid that is given does not even reach those who really need it.
commission. – the commission shares the concern of this parliament over the situation of mr pasko, whose conviction lacks some of the fundamental elements of independent and fair justice such as publicity. we hope that a speedy solution will be found by the appropriate russian instances to remedy mr pasko’s unfortunate personal situation. furthermore, the pasko case sends a very worrying message of self-censorship to other journalists and media in general, the impact of which one cannot underestimate. in this respect, the second paragraph of the joint statement of the recent eu-russia summit in moscow of 29 may states that it is a common goal to strengthen a society based on respect for democratic principles and human rights, of which the defence of freedom of expression is a fundamental element. the eu has raised the case of mr pasko in the past in the framework of its intensive political dialogue with russia. the commission agrees that further diplomatic action is needed in view of the recent developments. it is clear that the european union will also continue to raise the more general issue of freedom of expression and editorial freedom in its political dialogue with the russia federation. in parallel, these issues will continue to be a priority in the framework of the european initiative for democracy and human rights (eidhr), under which russia is a core country.
mr president, i was first concerned with this situation when a constituent of mine sent me the amnesty international report on the 52 men arrested on the queen boat nightclub in may 2001 for presumed homosexuality, satanist practices and offences against islam. europeans and women were spared from the charges. it is alleged that they were tortured by whippings, electrocutions and threats from dogs into signing confessions of being homosexual. allegedly many were not homosexual but just enjoying the western culture of drinking alcohol and dancing. motivation for the arrest was in part to appease anti-western sentiment and distract the people from the government's economic problems at the time. in the initial trial in november 2001, 25 were sentenced to jail terms, but the government has decided on a second retrial of its so-called perverts. a number of irregularities were apparent in the first trial. the egyptian press law prohibits the publication of details in on-going investigations which might prejudice the trial outcome, which was blatantly disregarded with the publications of stories of alleged homosexual orgies, gay weddings and the identity and pictures of all the defendants. the law does not prohibit homosexual acts, only "habitual debauchery", of which there was scant evidence. the men were tried by a state security court rather than a regular court and forced medical examinations were carried out, clearly against the universal declaration of human rights. it is clear to me that a retrial is a breach of the double jeopardy interdiction of the international covenant on civil and political rights and also the spirit of article 2 of the eu-egypt euro-mediterranean agreement on respect for human rights. commissioner patten replied to me, as did the uk foreign office minister bradshaw, expressing concern and willingness to monitor the situation, which this house is raising with concern again today. regarding the previous debate, i would also like to ask commissioner diamantopoulou to use all available means to keep up the pressure on zimbabwe.
mr president, i rise with a heavy heart because it is never a pleasant duty to speak about human rights abuses. it reminds us that individuals throughout the world, because they are different, because of where they were born, to whom they were born, are not given those universal freedoms that we so often take for granted. the heavy heart is also because i am a friend of egypt. i recognise the importance of egypt and hold the egyptian government, president mubarak and the ambassador to the european union in the highest regard. but when it comes to human rights abuses, if we are selective in the application of principle, then we lay this house open to the charge of hypocrisy. what do we ask? we ask for simple human rights: the right to a fair trial, the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion, the right to freedom from torture and cruel or inhuman treatment, the right to privacy, the right to equality before the law and we reaffirm also article 14.7 of the international covenant on civil and political rights which has been mentioned today. let me say personally – i am not speaking on behalf of my group – that, as a gay man, if i had been born in egypt or somewhere else, because i was different, because of the people with whom i associated, or because i declared myself publicly, i could have every single one of the human rights i have mentioned taken away from me. look at me. i am human. i bleed. i laugh. i cry. we are each of us exactly the same, but strangely others find a difference to deprive us of our human rights. therefore to do nothing is to condone human rights abuses wherever they occur. to look the other way is to throw away our own rights and our claim to call ourselves civilised. i call upon the egyptian president and the egyptian government to do the right, just and proper thing and to release the men in question.
mr president, let us remember that egypt is one of the great ancient civilisations. it has always been a pillar of culture and progress since ancient days. today, its recent former foreign minister is secretary-general of the gulf cooperation council. egypt is primus inter pares in perpetuity in the arab league. yet we have these most unfortunate men charged with an offence that we in the european union cannot accept as a matter of anything other than rank discrimination. in the light of the european mediterranean partnership that we have, we speak as friends of egypt, because indeed egypt today is still one of the foremost defenders of democratic rights and guarantees of democracy and human freedoms in the entire arab world. we respect its culture, its background, its history, its religion. but still, as friends, and, in most particular, because of our deep profound partnership with egypt, we ask it to think again. today, in supporting this important resolution, we call upon the council and the commission to speak for parliament in asking the egyptian government to think again.
mr president, mr cohn-bendit raises a very important point because this is an issue on which decisions may well be made before our september ii part-session. we know that member states are under great pressure at present and the matter needs to be dealt with. at the same time, it was the view of the conference of presidents last week – and i believe it would be the view of this house – that we need to have a full debate on the current situation regarding a possible armed attack on iraq. i would ask you, mr president, either to take up mr barón crespo's suggestion or to try to find a way of scheduling such a debate on the international criminal court this week without eating into the time foreseen for the debate on iraq.
mr president, it is also with regard to the agenda. as it stands in front of us, it does not contain an item which, under our new rules, namely rule 121a, should automatically be placed on the agenda for mondays: a 30-minute period of one-minute speeches for members to raise items of political interest. that should have been on our draft agenda and it appears to have been left out – no doubt an oversight, these are new rules, not everyone is used to them yet – but it should automatically be on the agenda at some point during the monday.
mr president, you may recall that before the summer i proposed an initiative on a global christian/muslim/jewish dialogue with representatives of the christian, muslim and jewish parliaments to be sponsored by yourself here in the european parliament. during the summer, it has been noticeable that tensions have risen regarding september 11 or iraq or what is happening in regard to israel/palestine. i think it is time for such a dialogue, as a focus for the good forces of moderation and moderate people. this idea was mooted to me by the speaker of the philippine parliament, when we were there, and i think the time has come for this initiative.
mr president, i am very pleased to be here today for more than one reason because, looking around the room, perhaps i am one of the few people who was actually here when we first wrote the packaging directive. i feel a special responsibility to ensure that we do not forget that and ensure that this directive continues to develop in a positive way for the environment. i welcome this proposal but i am not sure whether the timing is particularly good, coming as it does from the commission before we can fully assess the impact of enlargement. i think that we have to be sure that what we do to the directive on this occasion is a positive and sensible thing and we do not, for example, try to table ego-amendments rather than eco-amendments. politicians always tend to want to change directives and demonstrate their power. what we have to do today is take a rather more limited approach than we took with the first packaging directives of many years ago. but i see this as a useful opportunity, if we can take that approach, to adjust the directive in the light of experience. we have learned that recycling is not in itself a good thing but only good when it is positive and beneficial to the environment. therefore, many of the tools that we have gradually developed need further refinement, whether life-cycle analysis or some of the other tools. these will tell us the real value of the work that we are doing and that we are asking others to do. simply raising the targets without any thoughtful consideration of them is not something that we should do on this occasion. let us take the commission targets, which are not bad targets at all – the commission proposal is not a bad proposal at all – let us examine them carefully and let us refine them. let us see if we can improve them. perhaps minimum targets for each material is not a bad idea. there are some materials that do indeed need a lot more work on them, or if you look at the area of glass and metal perhaps less work. we need to think very carefully about this directive. we must ensure that it is acceptable not just to those countries that are already and fully implementing the packaging directive but also to those that will have to implement it in coming times. we must bear in mind, of course, the very different situation countries like malta will find themselves in. smaller countries with particularly difficult waste disposal problems cannot really be realistically expected to adhere to exactly the same levels of recycling that might be achievable in the netherlands. we are also talking about central and eastern europe and that is why i wonder whether we should not pause for a little thought before we push too far ahead with a radical revision of this proposal. circumstances and conditions in those countries that will shortly be members of the european union will dictate that we take a different approach to some of the legislation. in particular when it comes to packaging, there has to be some kind of uniform and level playing field across europe, in which case we have to be realistic about what is achievable in central and eastern europe in the foreseeable future. finally, i would say that when we sit down today, i hope we will perhaps feel satisfied and happy and have a warm glow inside us, but also feel that we have done something not just for our egos but for the environment.
mr president, i have recently started to take a keen interest in waste issues, not simply because of the environmental needs of saving our planet's resources, but also because i represent wales, a region which has one of the worst records on waste in the eu. 97% of our waste is landfilled. at last the people in my country are starting to take the issue seriously, but coming from such a long way behind we need to be realistic about how quickly countries such as the uk and spain can catch up with nations such as germany which have already set the pace. it will take years for the uk to approve the planning permission that will be necessary to build the plants in order to meet these targets. it will take years for local authorities to follow public procurement rules. it will take huge efforts to persuade the public to separate their rubbish and it will take ages to develop a market for recyclets. that is why we need an extra two years to implement the rule change as agreed in committee. i am delighted to see that the council of ministers have agreed to set relatively high standards in the whole area of recovery and recycling. i am pleased to see that the committee has agreed to the suggestion of harmonising data collection in this field, so we can be really sure we are comparing like with like across member states. we must put pressure on business to reduce unnecessary packaging. we have seen time and time again that voluntary agreements in the business world are rarely honoured. that is why a compulsory reduction in packaging for goods should be agreed to. an environmental indicator to measure packaging has certain merits, but so far no one has managed to explain to me exactly how this would work and i therefore have reservations about writing into european law a system that does not yet exist. i hope that we all take our responsibilities seriously. the governments need to take their responsibility for waste seriously, but so do all of us as individuals.
rapporteur. – mr president, we meet here as the world summit on sustainable development is meeting in south africa, following the ground-breaking meeting of the wto in doha last year. it is also the day that the new director-general of the world trade organisation takes office. dr supachai panitchpakdi is the first director-general from a developing country. we wish him well and also acknowledge with thanks the hard work done by mr mike moore, the departing director-general. let us remind ourselves of the united nations secretary-general's report on globalisation to the millennium assembly. he said that inclusive globalisation must be built on the great enabling force of the market and market forces alone will not achieve it. it requires a broader effort to create a shared future based on our common humanity. this report is an attempt to bring the secretary-general's hopes into a legislative framework here in the european parliament. it is trade, not aid, that will eliminate world poverty and accelerate sustainable development. it is trade, not aid, in partnership with the global business community that will increase industrial, intellectual, educational and infrastructural capacities in developing countries and repeat what is now called the asian miracle, which i am told is alive and well in china. it is trade, not aid, that will drive the solutions to food security, clean water, housing, sanitation and information technology through foreign direct and inward investment. over the past 50 years, world trade has increased 19-fold. production has more than quadrupled and world per capita income has doubled. but unfortunately the human development report shows that the spread of technology, trade and wealth has not been equal, with the world's richest nations accounting for 20% of the world's population but 86% of the world's gdp, 82% of exports, 68% of foreign direct investment and 93% of internet users. 64 countries are categorised in this group but the biggest proportion of the world's people are in the medium development category, including india, china and indonesia and so on. these people are having severe structural, infrastructural, environmental and population problems. there are 51 chronically low-income countries, mainly in africa but also in asia and central america, which depend entirely on aid because there is very little direct foreign investment. we have to look at the world as it is, not the way we think the world should be. in the world as it is, the combined gross national product of 182 developing countries is less than the global turnover of the top 200 of the largest multinational companies, the transnational corporations, of which there are 65 000 in all. there are 200 chairmen of transnational corporations whose combined turnover is bigger than the combined gnps of presidents and finance ministers of 182 countries, encompassing probably the largest population groups in the world. but my report proposes that the people who are running these huge multinational corporations are brought into the development process, first by encouraging them to accept good governance and corporate social responsibility as enunciated by the united nations secretary-general. we must create a framework in which the european parliament, members of national parliaments and the directors of these companies can come together in a forum regularly, twice a year, with the rotating presidency of the eu to discuss matters of development and sustainability, not once in a blue moon as in johannesburg or in rio, but in a continuous dialogue. as part of this, i have proposed in my report that they set up something called an ethical investment committee on the lines of remuneration committees and other committees in boards of directors. the committee's job would be to identify development investment, investment as offset investments in developing countries. about 0.7% of their turnover in that country would go into investment projects to build intellectual, educational and infrastructural capacity in developing countries. that way everybody gains: the company because it gets a more skilled labour force and the country because it improves its capacity. i hope that parliament will approve my proposal unanimously. may i thank the many people who have helped me with this report and express the hope that it will be passed tomorrow without any dissension.
mr president, thank you and congratulations to mr deva for a very wide-ranging and comprehensive report. it is, as commissioner byrne said, appropriate that we are here just as those long and arduous deliberations are taking place in johannesburg. but perhaps more important and appropriate for us is the fact that the economic partnership agreement negotiations will begin this month. they have a wide-ranging agenda in johannesburg, just as we have here. the fact is that there are agreed goals in place and we now need all audacious and principled people to get down to working out how we meet the challenges: the challenges presented by the needless deaths of 11 million children under five every year; how we feed eight hundred million people who still go hungry; the 2.4 billion who have no adequate sanitation and the six million people we are losing every year to aids, tb and malaria. aid is essential, as mr deva says, for developing countries, but trade will bring benefits on a far greater scale. if sub-saharan africa had just one percent more of the global export market, it would bring in an extra usd 70 billion each year. that is five times what the region now receives in aid and debt relief combined. of course poor countries need more aid, but they also need better and fairer export opportunities. the great thing about trade is that it brings self-reliance; trade brings opportunities for jobs and for investments. trade also provides that ladder out of poverty which is what our committee and this report are all about. there is nothing inevitable about all the concerns raised in mr deva's report. it is not written on tablets of stone that global politics and global policies should be about 'them' and 'us' and about the survival of the fittest in an unequal world, as president mbeki said when opening the summit in johannesburg. we must take into account too the impact of the wto, the imf and the world bank and the conditionalities which they impose upon developing countries and which actually make their trading possibilities more difficult. what we need to say is that all the global actors on the global stage need a fair and comparable opportunity to perform well. trade barriers hurt poor people in general and women in particular, since it is these groups of poor people who tend to produce the goods that are most affected: agricultural goods and labour-intensive manufactured goods. as this report suggests, we clearly need a radical shake-up of world trade rules. what we see now is untenable; the unfairness and the inequity have to be tackled and trade is the key to doing this. certainly in terms of the acp-eu negotiations, we have a real opportunity to be centre stage and to be offering that equity and fairness. we are an agricultural superpower and we can lead in the whole post-doha agenda by opening markets and by ending the dumping of what we produce on to the world market, thereby producing distortions which developing countries simply cannot deal with. on trips, the eu should maintain a strong and determined leadership. trips must be implemented fairly. the issue of compulsory licensing must be resolved. returning to the epa negotiations, we should use the doha declaration on trips as a ceiling for any discussion with the acp on intellectual property. finally, as co-president of the joint parliamentary assembly, i think that we have a very serious role to play in the eu's negotiations. we are saying very clearly in the joint assembly that we want a strong and unequivocal dimension, which is a development dimension. this will require a huge investment in building capacity and a serious analysis of the implications of the impact of reciprocity on our acp partners. so, as mr deva makes clear, we have a long 'to do' list – a list which will not be dealt with unless we confront the vested interests that benefit from the plight of the poor. europe has to be driven by the moral imperatives which we face. it is time, as mr deva suggests, to challenge the orthodoxies and abandon the prescriptive notion that free flows of finance and information and trade advance welfare in all cases. it is time not for defeatist language but for constructive and practical answers.
mr president, i begin by congratulating mr deva on what i believe is a comprehensive, balanced and meaningful set of proposals. i particularly welcome his resolution because it restates our commitment to the principles of special and differential treatment of developing countries, to the importance of food security and to enhancing the accountability and social responsibility of corporations. the rapporteur's last point, the proposal for a european forum of enterprises in paragraphs 61 to 63, is an interesting one. but it should not deflect the commission from ensuring that the current csr forum that it is due to launch in october fully addresses the actions of european enterprises in developing countries. i want to make two substantive arguments in this debate. first, it is right to record in a report by the committee on development and cooperation that we can enunciate all the eu development policies we like, but too often these have been submerged beneath the eu's own trade and commercial interests when it really matters. we remember the hypocrisy of the commission and member states in regard to the free trade agreement negotiations with south africa. initial responses to mr fischler's proposals on cap reform, limited as they are, and current reports from johannesburg suggest that mr byrne's words about the phasing-out of agricultural export subsidies may well be an empty promise. if only the eu sought reform in the wto with the same vigour it has won the usd 4 billion trade sanctions against the united states in relation to our steel exports, perhaps the poorest countries would start to believe us when we say we want a development round. secondly, as other speakers have made clear, we have direct responsibility as the trade negotiations start with our acp colleagues. commissioner byrne, when talking about the economic partnership agreements, should answer the questions that the commission has refused to answer, before the process begins. why does the commission fail to talk now about the alternatives which were written into the cotonou agreement? why does it talk about capacity building but commit only 0.1% of the current nips for trade support? how can we have confidence in the sustainability impact assessment when the commission could not agree amongst itself on the impact of everything but arms on the sugar sector? finally, why does the commission resist the proposal from the acp heads of government in fiji to enter an initial phase of negotiations on principles with the acp group as a whole? is it that the commission wants to use the old tactic of divide and rule by attacking the solidarity of the acp group? that is not what this european parliament wants.
rapporteur. – mr president, the fact that parliament views this report with great seriousness can be gauged from the two major hearings which have been held during the past year: one by ecosoc and one by the committee on agriculture and rural development. it is understandable why members are concerned. in the eu at the present time we have a 35 million tonne annual shortfall in plant proteins. this situation has been exacerbated by the continuing mbm (meat and bone meal) ban which has created a further 2 million tonne hole in our protein supply. eu self-sufficiency in plant proteins has fallen to 23%, placing the community in a position of great vulnerability. we now have an enormous reliance on imported proteins from outside the eu. most of it comes from america, argentina and brazil in the form of soya cake. much of it is genetically modified. clearly such heavy reliance on sources outside our control makes the eu vulnerable to sudden price rises, climate change or harvest failures in these countries, almost placing our livestock sector in the same position as our heavy industry once was at the time of the oil crisis. there is a further alarming factor which will inevitably add to our problems. currently the accession states are more than 80% self-sufficient in plant proteins. while this is a considerable improvement on the situation in the 15 member states, it remains the case that the accession states, for the most part, export their oil seed because their crushing mills are obsolete, meaning that they still have to import soya cake in large quantities for their livestock sector. however, the commission is forecasting a fall in plant protein production in these countries once they become full members of the eu and a switch to cereals. this would be disastrous. we have a ready-made market for oil seeds and protein crops from which the accession states could benefit greatly. on the other hand, an increase in cereal production would simply add to the overall surplus and lead to the introduction of higher set-aside rates. we must implement a plan which would encourage the production of rape seed, pulses, sunflower and soya and provide major economic benefits, not only to the accession states, but to ourselves, through greater self-sufficiency. in the existing member states and the accession states, we also anticipate a continuing rise in meat consumption which will in turn lead to a demand from livestock producers for ever greater quantities of protein feed. so it is against this background that i have set out in my report to look for ways of encouraging more self-reliance within the eu. amongst many recommendations, i have suggested various ways of encouraging an increase in plant protein production by investing more in research into and development of new and improved plant varieties. i have also called for rotational aid payments to farmers to encourage the production of plant proteins in the cereal crop cycle and for the growing of protein crops, grain legumes and oil seeds on set-aside land. i have called for a safety net or income insurance scheme for producers of oil seed and protein crops. i am alarmed at the continuing ban on fish meal in ruminant feeds by the commission. i see this as quite unjustified by science and simply adding to our overall protein shortfall. i urge commissioner byrne to think again on this issue and to lift the ban, which is affecting a significant number of jobs in the fish processing and livestock feed sector. i believe there is great potential in developing the non-food sector. the production of oil-bearing plants for biofuels such as methylester and for biolubricants and biodegradable solvents is important in the concept of this debate because oil cake is produced as a valuable by-product. the commission has shown a great deal of interest in this sector. it merits closer examination. however, developments in this area are mainly determined by the tax situation for biofuels. we have a long way to go before we can expect agreement on an eu-wide harmonised system of taxation which would encourage greater biofuel production. finally, i fear that the mid-term review of the cap since the agriculture committee dealt with my report may have significantly altered the thrust of some of these recommendations. i would be interested in hearing how commissioner byrne and commissioner fischler think the mid-term review will affect this position.
mr president, i would like to begin by congratulating mrs maes on a very competent and excellent report. consideration of this subject is long overdue and i am grateful to the commission for bringing it forward. the problem of third countries' aircraft and their safety standards has been of great concern to many people, particularly eastern european airlines and maybe even further east than that. the commission's directive has sought to resolve this problem by introducing a large number of ramp inspections and inspectors to do spot-check inspections on these aircraft as they land in the european union. that is one way to do it. there is another way we could have approached this, but i am not going to complain. i would just like to say that the way the commission has proposed is a massive job creation programme for aeronautical engineers and technicians. i myself am an aeronautical engineer so i should not be complaining about this. but it is going to create a number of jobs at the community airports where people will have to go and do spot-check inspections and ramp inspections. an alternative that i might suggest for future consideration is to actually upgrade technical and maintenance facilities in third countries and give them support and aid so that they can upgrade their own technical specifications and maintenance facilities to a standard that is internationally acceptable. that is what the united states has been doing, particularly with african countries. this is good for exports and good for the united states aviation industry in that it provides a long-term opportunity to sell its goods and services. it is also a way of getting its equipment into place around the world – the boeing-airbus agreement, i suppose. there are, of course, a number of issues relating to community air transport which we need to look at. might i be permitted to raise a very important issue for the british meps coming to strasbourg? we get thrown off flights, even with fully confirmed tickets. air france has done this repeatedly; yesterday two of my colleagues with confirmed tickets were thrown off because the flight had been overbooked. that is against international rules. it is also – and the commissioner might wish to write to the president of air france about this – a criminal offence for a member of parliament to be prevented from coming to parliament in britain. there is such a thing as a european arrest warrant, which we understand is now going to be put in place. i am raising these issues so that we may act before it is too late.
mr president, i wish to begin by thanking our rapporteurs, mr fava and mrs sanders-ten holte, and also the shadow rapporteur, mr schmitt, for all their hard work on a very complex and detailed report. however, i should like to raise a number of concerns that have not yet been addressed, in particular by the commission. the aviation industry cannot continue to sustain the loss of usd 4 billion due to delays across europe and i recognise that doing nothing is not an option. notwithstanding those remarks, as the saying goes, the devil is in the detail. the proposals before us could result in duplication of regulatory efforts and measures aimed at either member states or at the full eurocontrol membership that at present covers 31 countries. even worse, there is still a real danger of damaging or destroying existing pan-european systems that function to everybody's satisfaction, solely because they need to be placed all of a sudden in an eu context. i refer in particular to the commission proposal to recreate the eurocontrol route charges and central flow management systems. i would also question the establishment of an industry consultation body, as this would be an unnecessary duplication of the existing system. it is our duty to look beyond our borders and create meaningful and effective actions and measures to improve the safety, efficiency and economics of air traffic management which will not lead to a two-tier system, thereby jeopardising the current modus operandi. in addition, we cannot ignore the genuine concerns of many member states regarding the military dimensions of single sky, nor the sovereignty issue. on 6 july 2000, during our initial debate here in this house, i informed the house that 44% of delays and 30 bottlenecks were concentrated in sectors straddling north and south, including switzerland, france, italy, spain and parts of germany. i also stressed that it was inappropriate to use eurocontrol as the scapegoat. a single sky will not solve all of our congestion problems if these member states and switzerland do not make a concerted effort to address their specific shortcomings. finally, both airlines and airports will also need to look closely at their practices, as they too are far too often responsible for a high percentage of the delays incurred. this report has come a long way and, again, we must thank the rapporteurs. but we are not there yet. i hope that there will be further and better clarification once council has met.
mr president, when my colleague spoke about the single european sky in july 2000 he thanked the then rapporteur, sir robert atkins, for providing a gift to the eurosceptic movement in the united kingdom. since then, the europhile british press, particularly the national sunday newspaper the observer, has made great capital over the recent tragic collision between the swiss and the russian airliners. one journalist even suggested that the lack of a unified system was in part responsible for the incident. however, this issue is not about controlling airspace. a unified system through eurocontrol already exists. it has been doing the job of coordinating air movements in 30 countries, half of them outside the eu, for 42 years. the real issue is the battle as old as the communities themselves: the battle between supranationalism and intergovernmentalism. the eurocontrol system is based on intergovernment control; the single european sky framework directive is naked supranationalism. the community wants to bring a portion of the system under supranational control. it wants to take over relations with eurocontrol from member states, bringing it closer to achieving its ambition to be what monnet described as a european government. that is the real agenda. i remind my british colleagues particularly, therefore, that if they vote for this measure they are voting for political integration.
mr president, i should also like to thank the rapporteurs for their work and remind colleagues that the real issues, the three guiding principles against which we should test these proposals, must be safety, environmental sustainability and consumer rights. the current systems of air traffic control in europe are living on borrowed time and the tragic events this summer only go to prove that. mrs maes is absolutely right that in 20 to 30 years we could well be witnessing a major aviation tragedy every week unless we take action now. the single european sky and the proposals for checks on non-eu aircraft are important contributions to making our skies safer. but we must also take account of the environment, particularly in this week of the johannesburg earth summit. every day millions of litres of fuel are wasted and unnecessary emissions are produced because of aviation delays and aircraft in transit across europe's skies. a single sky will be a major contribution to reducing pollution, emissions and wasted fossil fuel. finally, let us not forget consumer rights. one in three flights in europe is delayed. the human cost is incalculable: thousands of family holidays were ruined this summer with people kept waiting in hot and antiquated airports. business is disrupted and delayed. i hope that this proposal will be widely supported. i am pleased that the commissioner is ambitious enough to say that we must see a significant breakthrough in 2004. like mr fava, i remain optimistic that we will meet that deadline. it is just a pity that the council is not here to respond to our concerns and our calls for immediate action, because the commissioner has done her work. we have done ours. now it is up to the council.
mr president, we all agree on the need to allow companies across europe to run the eu-wide sales promotions. sales promotions are key tools to marketing goods and services and we need to get rid of restrictions and barriers so as to allow business and consumers to exploit the opportunities of the internal market. in the uk it is commonplace that consumers can and do benefit from sales promotions, for example coupon vouchers. in 2000, for example, 531 million coupons were redeemed in the uk; between 1999 and 2000 there was a 122.5% increase in consumer use of internet coupons and promotions. so they are popular and we need to regulate and open up this area for consumers and business. it is, however, important that the commission addresses some of the concerns of members of the european parliament and of my political group on the issue of sales below cost in particular. we also tabled the amendment to require the commission to come forward with a study in this area. there are legitimate concerns, because sometimes sales below cost can be abused to squeeze out competitors by means of predatory pricing; this does not help small business, nor does it help the consumer. that is why, in the spirit of better legislation called for by commissioner prodi recently, my group will give the commission conditional support for the regulation if it agrees to carry out an evaluation study to examine exactly how sales below cost can benefit both small businesses and consumers. this study should also address the need to strengthen competition policy instruments to prevent predatory pricing and its unwanted side effects. the internal market should not be a free-for-all for big business, leading to smes being squeezed out of markets with the result that consumers have less choice. we must also make sure that the information requirements in the annex are clear. it is important that business is clear about its obligations to provide information on promotions. it is also important that consumers have sufficient information and legal redress, either through the law courts or through adr systems. the pse group has therefore tabled an amendment asking the commission to work in consultation with consumer groups and industry to ensure the clear and unambiguous execution of the information requirements. as they are currently drafted, they are misleading and have led both to business lobbying meps and complaining about the lack of clarity and to consumers letting us know that there are information gaps. if this regulation is to achieve legal certainty then the requirements must be clear. however, i agree with the commissioner that the answer is not, as the ppe-de group has proposed, to delete those requirements and, like the commission, we will be voting against those deletions. the pse group has taken a strong line to protect minors against harmful promotions relating to alcohol and tobacco. i hope those will be taken on board. finally, a very brief point on mutual recognition. i personally believe that mutual recognition already works. every day on the internet, cross-border sales and business are alive and thriving, using the principle of mutual recognition. we cannot bury our heads in the sand and deny the fact that this is already happening.
mr president, this is an important piece of legislation which will really help to improve and consolidate the single market by ensuring that we do not have excessive cross-border differences about sales promotion rules. it is justifiably a regulation because it simply removes certain sorts of bans on sales promotions while leaving it to the states to pursue their own particular legal, economic and political preference in other cases. so in this sense it is an important contribution to the consolidation of the single market and my group will support it in much the same spirit and also support much the same amendments as mrs mccarthy has just done on behalf of the pse. i would like to stress a few points. first of all, this is not an attack on consumer protection. indeed some of the amendments make it absolutely clear that we want to see the maximum liberty of sales promotions that is consistent with proper consumer protection laws. secondly, there is a degree of concern about the fate of small businesses faced with large retail organisations whose forms of sales promotion may be thought to encourage the closing down of the corner shop and the aggrandisation of the supermarket. we are certainly against that and we underline in the amendments we support and in those we supported in committee that the sales promotion laws must be seen to be wholly in conformity with competition law and with the avoidance of abuse of dominant position in markets. given these safeguards, including the safeguards for minors, my group will with great goodwill vote for this measure today.
mr president, on a point of order. i am sure i speak on behalf of all my colleagues in the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, some of whom are still here. can i protest to you on behalf of all my colleagues working on this dossier about the quite unacceptable way in which this debate has been scheduled? we started this debate at 11.30 a.m.. the session services knew it would not be finished and there are other debates scheduled later which you know from your computer system could have been slotted in there. we now have to adjourn the continuation of this debate until 9.30 p.m. mrs montfort and my colleague from the edd have spoken under quite unacceptable circumstances. this is not the right way to run a chamber that is supposed to be having a serious debate on these subjects. it is not necessary to do this; there is no reason to split debates. you have the information and i suggest that it is not right to allow proper contributions while people are coming into the chamber. i hope all colleagues will support me in saying we should seriously get a grip on how business in this chamber is run.
mr president, on a point of order, the reason why the lifts did not appear to be working was that the security guards were standing at the bottom with about three of them blocked off, apparently for some delegation that is visiting parliament! because this building is so badly designed, the lifts barely have enough capacity for members as it is, without the security guards taking over two or three of them at precisely the time when everybody is coming down to vote. the sessional services should get themselves better organised. (applause)
in writing. - i wholeheartedly support this report which deals with the need to tackle the ever-growing mountain of waste in the eu. the commission's original text should be updated and strengthened to ensure a more ambitious strategy to deal with this mountain of discarded packaging material. as such, i welcome the concepts of prevention and producer responsibility: they will help to ensure that the responsibility for implementing these measures is fairly distributed among european citizens. i also welcome the call to producers to take 'all possible measures to minimise the environmental impact' of packaging, although i admit that such a measure may be difficult to harmonise. finally, broadening the context of this directive and ensuring that it is compatible with the sixth environment action programme is justified and shows that the eu is capable of a comprehensive and sound approach to this issue.
mr president, the british conservatives today reluctantly voted against the blokland report on the establishment of a community framework for noise classification of civil subsonic aircraft for the purposes of calculating noise charges. this is because amendment no 8 was adopted, reintroducing the concept that parliament rejected last year – setting noise target values and charges for airports rather than just for aircraft. whilst aircraft move around the european union, airports clearly do not and therefore airport noise charges and related land planning issues are matters for member states under the principle of subsidiarity.
the council. - i have the honour, on behalf of the presidency of the council, to present the draft budget of the european communities for 2003, adopted by the council on 22 july. as both a minister for europe and a former member of the european parliament, i am very pleased to note that the budgetary procedure for 2003 has so far been characterised by good cooperation between the council and the european parliament. the draft budget which i am now presenting has already taken account of a number of agreements and common understandings which were the result of the consultation between the council and parliament on 19 july 2002. during the preparatory trialogue and the july consultation, a targeted effort was made by danish finance minister thor pedersen, committee chairman terry wynn and the committee's colleagues. i am sure that this work has provided a good basis for the two arms of the budgetary authority to agree on a satisfactory budget for 2003. i know that some members have been disappointed in the past that the european parliament and the council have had difficulty in reaching agreement, but this has not been the case this year and i am very pleased about that. i shall now touch on a number of challenges which have already been discussed by the european parliament and the council and where agreements and common understandings have been reached. i shall then give an overview of the main features of the draft budget adopted by the council on 22 july. first of all, however, i would like to refer to the discussion we have just had on the response to the tragic floods. this new challenge calls for rapid action, and we all agree on this. it is good that the individual member states have already made their own contribution to the destruction. at the same time, the commission has taken a number of initiatives which have just been mentioned and the council is now to discuss what further action can be taken. i now return to the results achieved at the parliament and council meeting on 19 july:- a common understanding was reached and an agreement reached that the administrative preparation for enlargement is a key priority which the institutions must be given the opportunity to take up from now on and throughout 2003. - a common understanding has been reached that work must be done to secure the financing of the common foreign and security policy in the light of important new tasks. (ii) a common understanding was reached on the need to finance the restructuring of the spanish and portuguese fishing fleets and to keep the growth rate of the total payment appropriations as low as possible. let me first say a few words about the administrative expenditure for 2003. the agreement reached by the two arms of the budgetary authority in july is a good agreement:- the council and the european parliament recognise that the institutions must prepare for the enlargement of the eu in 2003. this will entail additional administrative costs. for example, more staff and more space are needed. the agreement we have reached has been aimed at securing the financing of the pre-enlargement measures needed by each institution. - the ceiling for administrative expenditure in 2003 is to be maintained; the flexibility instrument shall not be used. - the two arms of the budgetary authority have agreed that, in particular, pre-enlargement expenditure planned for 2003, where possible, can be carried out as early as this year. this will facilitate the preparation of the institutions for enlargement. the first objective of this 'frontloading' exercise is to finance the publication of the community's legal acts in the languages of the new member states. in this connection, it will be necessary, inter alia, to adopt an additional supplementary and amending budget for 2002. - an agreement as early as july will provide the institutions with the best possible planning basis for preparing for enlargement; the agreement ensures stability for both the european parliament and the council's 2003 budget. it is also positive that we agree to follow up the opportunities for increased interinstitutional cooperation which the secretaries-general of the institutions have pointed out in a number of reports. the question of early retirement of the staff of the european parliament's groups has also been resolved. both parliament and the council give high priority to the eu's participation in external action, i.e. the common foreign and security policy. the eu should have sufficient resources to enable it to meet at any time the tasks which derive from our place in the world community. this is a question of the credibility of the european union, which i am sure the honourable members will agree with. at the july meeting, the european parliament, the council and the commission agreed that the emergency reserve for humanitarian aid could also be used for civilian crisis management, when circumstances so required. it was also agreed to seek agreement on the appropriations for the common foreign and security policy. this will be done as part of a general agreement on the 2003 budget. we must secure the cfsp appropriations for 2003 in the light of new important tasks. we also agree to seek agreement on the appropriate involvement of parliament in cfsp measures within the framework of the treaty. it is a good thing that such good results have already been achieved in this field. in its draft budget, the commission has earmarked eur 40 million for the cfsp. the commission has therefore taken account of the forthcoming takeover of the police mission in bosnia-herzegovina. the council welcomes this appropriation but considers that the total appropriations are insufficient. the council therefore proposes a total of eur 47.5 million for the common foreign and security policy for 2003. in addition to the police mission in bosnia-herzegovina, the council envisages, inter alia, technical assistance to third countries in the fight against terrorism. in addition, more appropriations are needed for non-proliferation and disarmament actions. i hope we can agree on something similar to the council's proposal. i would like to briefly mention the commission's proposal to use the flexibility instrument to finance eur 27 million for the restructuring of the spanish and portuguese fishing fleets. in this respect, both the european parliament and the council have undertaken to find a solution before the end of the budgetary procedure. the council considers that the flexibility instrument should be used only in exceptional cases. as regards the financing of the eur 27 million, the council considers that all financing options should be examined before considering the commission's proposal to use the flexibility instrument for this purpose. finally, a few words on the growth rate of total payment appropriations. i am glad that parliament agrees on the need for budgetary discipline and sound financial management. parliament stated during the july consultation that the growth rate of total payment appropriations should be kept as low as possible. at the same time, the results of the council's first reading of the 2003 budget must be taken into account. as politicians, we all in this house are aware that substantial repayments to member states of unused eu funds give the eu a bad image in the public eye. we must show the world that we are capable of making a realistic budget. the council would like to ask the commission to indicate the expected surplus for 2002 so that it can be entered in the 2003 budget by means of a letter of amendment. the total commitment appropriations are eur 99 548 million, an increase of almost 0.9% compared with 2002. particular attention has been paid to the possibility of actual use of appropriations. - total payment appropriations amounted to eur 96 992 million, an increase of 1.4% compared with 2002. this low rate of growth is to be seen in the light of the low utilization of payment appropriations in previous years. the first reading of the draft budget for 2003 took place:- taking due account of the interinstitutional agreement of 6 may 1999 on budgetary discipline and improvement of the budgetary procedure;- in the context of the council conclusions of 5 march 2002 on the budgetary guidelines for 2003; and- taking account of the conclusions of the consultation meeting of 19 july 2002 between parliament and the council. particular attention was paid to - respecting the annual expenditure ceilings set in the 2000-06 financial perspective - leaving, if possible, sufficient margins under the ceilings for the different areas of expenditure, except for the categories of structural funds and pre-accession aid, where the ceilings indicate expenditure targets - allocating sufficient funds to the different eu priorities. i should like to emphasize a few of the main points in the council's draft budget in the various lines of expenditure: the council proposes a reduction of eur 288 million for agriculture. experience has shown that the appropriations for the cap have often been over-allocated. the commission now has the opportunity to reassess its assessment in the context of the autumn letter of amendment. in this respect, due account may be taken of the latest information on, inter alia, market conditions and the evolution of the dollar exchange rate. in this connection, the council agrees with parliament that the commission will also examine whether the amount proposed by the commission for the eradication of animal diseases is sufficient. as regards the appropriations for rural development, the council accepted the commission's preliminary draft budget. as regards structural operations, the commitment appropriations have been entered in full in the budget. this is in line with the conclusions of the berlin european council in march 1999. the council has almost fully accepted the commission's proposal. however, the appropriations for the structural funds were reduced by eur 525 million in view of the under-utilisation of appropriations in previous years. as regards internal policies, the council accepted the amounts agreed for multiannual programmes already adopted. for programmes under consideration, the council has adjusted the appropriations to reflect the common position of the council or the outcome of the council's discussions. these downward adjustments do not affect projects in regions bordering the candidate countries. i would also like to mention that the council has made a small increase in the appropriations for the financing of the special olympics in europe in 2003. a margin of eur 122 million has been left under the ceiling for heading 3, allowing the european parliament to finance various priorities while still being able to cover future needs. as regards heading 4, external policies, the council has accepted almost all the appropriations in the commission's draft budget. for example, it is important to finance the efforts in afghanistan. the council agreed to accept the appropriations for international fisheries agreements proposed by the commission. i have already touched on the council's decision on the cfsp budget. a margin of eur 80 million has been left under the ceiling for heading 4, allowing the european parliament to finance various priorities while also allowing for future needs. i have already touched on the administrative expenditure in category 5. i shall conclude the discussion of the various headings with heading 7, pre-accession aid. the appropriations for commitments in the council's draft budget have not changed compared with the commission's proposal. however, the payment appropriations have been reduced by eur 300 million. this is to be seen in the light of the under-utilisation of appropriations in previous years. overall, i am pleased to note that the council's draft budget for 2003 provides sufficient funds for the various priorities of the union, while taking into account the agreements and common understandings reached at the first consultation in july. you all know that this budgetary procedure is only just beginning and that there is still a long way to go before the final adoption of the 2003 budget. the conditions are in place for us to have a satisfactory budget by the end of the year. the draft budget adopted by the council provides a good basis for this. the agreements and common understandings reached at the meeting on 19 july are a positive signal that we are willing to reach agreement. in conclusion, i am confident that all three institutions present here today will do their utmost to contribute to a thorough prioritisation so that the challenges of the coming year can be met. i am also sure that we do not forget that the eu budget is ultimately financed by the citizens of europe. that is why budgeting must be realistic and responsible - also for the coming year.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the previous debate on aid for natural disasters, which we have just had, has shown very clearly the expectations of the people of europe in regard to the european budget. if we look at the actual european government share, that is to say the share of the european budget in the european social product, the picture is a little different. it is almost in a certain contrast to this, because this state quota is only a little over one per cent. the commission had proposed a level of 1.03 % of european gross national product for the 2003 budget. the council has again shortened it somewhat. the financial perspective, that is to say our financial planning, which we all agreed on, says that 1.08 per cent should actually be available. i think that should always be the guideline, although i am also in favour of always having certain reserves as a precaution, reserves for the unforeseen. the council has now made its cuts in agriculture, for example, on a flat-rate basis, but has not taken into account the necessary reassessment of the dollar's current trend. but there is agreement here that a new proposal must be made in the autumn on the necessary agricultural expenditure. the council accepted many of the commission's approaches to the draft budget for 2003. we are of course positive about that. the fact that a consensus has been reached in the field of foreign policy on the possibility of using the so-called emergency aid, the emergency reserve, to finance civilian crisis management measures in the future is also to be welcomed. i believe that this will improve the ability to react quickly in the event of crises and is an important step towards a visible and efficient common foreign and security policy. i have to say, however, that i have a lot of criticism about the outcome of the vote. for example, it has remained completely unclear how the funds for the restructuring of the fishing fleet in spain and portugal or the necessary funds to support sustainable fisheries reform should be financed. the question was raised here, but its solution was put on the back burner. the council, for example, cut the appropriations for the co-financing of the transeuropean transport and energy networks by 15 million. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the environment. i think that this cut must also be reversed. i have to say that i am very critical of the council's decision on staff expenditure, of its approach to staff expenditure in the various institutions. the financial planning would have allowed an increase of 3.6% for all the institutions. the council itself, however, has authorized a substantially higher increase. the council has agreed to double the amount of staff expenditure. if we add up all the council's administrative expenditure, the council has even agreed to an increase of 11%. i must say it very clearly here, in the formulation that is so fond of being used by the ecofin council, the council of finance ministers: this decision by the council to use its own administrative resources does not fit into the fiscal landscape. this was self-service, and at the expense of others, namely the commission. the council has proposed a substantial cut in appropriations. the commission's administrative expenditure for 2003 is of course a significant factor in this, because it is the year of preparation for the largest enlargement of the european union in its history. the commission must make preparations in 2003 so that the new members can be monitored from the start of enlargement, for example, on how environmental laws are being implemented, how competition rules are being respected, or what the situation is in the area of food law, veterinary rules, whether european union rules are also being implemented. these are just examples of the commission's tasks. it is also not appropriate for us to wait until after enlargement to negotiate with the new member states on the structural or agricultural aid programmes. the preparations may have to be made now, and that requires staff. the council itself has approved 236 new posts for the preparation of enlargement. in the commission, on the other hand, he has even questioned and cut the funding of the posts that now exist. parliament has drawn up a model which has been incorporated in an agreement. the aim of this model is to try to pre-finance certain administrative expenditure as early as 2002 so that the commission's staff expenditure for preparing for enlargement will be available next year. but this will only work if all the institutions also accept this model as mandatory. i must therefore insist on behalf of the commission that we take stock in october of whether this model of prefinancing is working or whether new decisions should be taken if it is not. the enlargement process should be prepared in such a way that it is a success from the outset. the commission is counting on the european parliament, it is confident that the european parliament will not be satisfied with the resolution it adopted in july but will check whether the council is also making efforts to implement this model of frontloading. i must say quite clearly that we need human resources as a commission to prepare for enlargement. otherwise we cannot guarantee that the necessary tasks will be fulfilled from the outset to make enlargement a success. thank you for your attention.
chairman of the committee on budgets. – mr president, i welcome mr haarder and it is good to see him again in his new role. he knows he is always welcome in this house. please send our regards to mr pedersen; it was good working with him. i do not want to go into detail on many of the issues because i will leave that to both rapporteurs, who have mentioned several items. i would like to concentrate on one or two specific political issues. one concerns the agreement that was reached at conciliation on category 5. whilst it left the council very happy, we in parliament realised that we had probably made an enemy of the commission by agreeing to that deal. but let me reiterate why we did so. we were convinced that in no way, shape or form would the council ever agree to the flexibility instrument being used for category 5. therefore we agreed to a deal that would bring benefits for parliament and the other institutions and a sensible approach to category 5, not as the commission wanted. the things we have proposed about frontloading, the use of ramassage and so on are there to ease the pain of the commission. we know the commission is going to suffer but we are trying to ease the situation slightly. if there are problems with enlargement because of what has occurred, then the commission needs to convince the council, not us, of its needs regarding staffing levels, because some of us are actually convinced. having said that, we cannot be criticised for the help we have given the commission in its staffing needs over the last two years. against the wishes of the council, we have helped the commission to increase its establishment plans by several hundred members of staff. so any criticism can only apply to next year. please bear in mind that we have stood side by side with the commission. this is an attempt to make the reform a success and to ensure that the commission has the right people to do the jobs that we expect it to do. i say that because the deal was quite unique. however, mr stenmarck and mr färm on our committee now have to determine what will constitute the global ramassage for this year. that is the task of both our rapporteurs, certainly mr stenmarck, who will look at the other institutions to see what money there is left over in their budgets to be put into the pot to ensure that the commission is not disadvantaged to any great extent. we are aware that what we can find this year will be acceptable, but this leaves the problem of staffing next year, so whatever we can save for next year's budget we will. my other political point concerns the common foreign and security policy. the president-in-office mentioned it in his speech. let us be clear on our position. we did not make an agreement on what the amounts are for the cfsp. the amount in this year's budget was eur 30 million; the amount in the pdb was eur 40 million and the amount entered in the council's first reading is eur 47.5 million. we made no agreements on that and, as far as we are concerned, we stick by article 39 of the interinstitutional agreement. that figure as it stands right now should be eur 30 million. that is not to say that, come our second reading, the figure may well be eur 47.5 million but, for the sake of this debate and to clarify issues, our argument is that the council put the wrong figure in: it should be eur 30 million. there may be a legal interpretation as to when that disagreement was confirmed but, as far as we are concerned, it was confirmed at the conciliation meeting. let us not forget that there are problems in other categories also. in category 2, the eur 27 million entered for the restructuring of the fleet is not going to appear by magic. we must be serious when we say we must find a way of solving that. it would seem that the only way we can do so is by using the flexibility instrument. the council may have to have a rethink on that unless it comes forward with a better idea which we have not yet thought of. that is all i want to say on the political aspects. i will leave the rest to the rapporteurs.
commission. – the current ec legislation lays down a minimum of 71.7 degrees centigrade for 15 seconds for the pasteurisation of drinking milk and/or pasteurised milk products. this combination is known to be effective for foot-and-mouth disease and other known animal health, public health and zoonosis risks. however, directive 92/46/eec allows any equivalent pasteurisation time/temperature combination, provided it offers the same level of food safety. the issue of possible links between crohn's disease and paratuberculosis was reviewed by the scientific committee of animal health and animal welfare in its report adopted on 21 march 2000. it concluded that insufficient data were available to determine epidemiological links between both diseases and no specific time/temperature combination for pasteurisation of milk which would inactivate the agent of paratuberculosis was recommended. the scientific data available to the commission indicate that no precise time/temperature treatment has been identified which would completely destroy map in milk. in addition, the commission has funded a project, sacrohn – improvement of prevention, diagnosis and treatment of sarcoidosis and crohn's disease, which commenced on 1 october 2000. the total cost of the project is eur 3 million. the community contribution is eur 1 639 151. the project duration is 36 months. it is funded by the life quality control of infectious diseases programme. no concrete results are available from that source to confirm any link between map and crohn's disease. however the consortium is heavily involved in developing new detection methods based on new molecular technologies and culture techniques. such technologies are being used by the research consortia to facilitate the detection of map in milk and intestinal biopsies of crohn's disease patients. efforts are also focused on using molecular typing techniques to establish any possible links between ruminant sources of map and the aetiology of crohn's disease. the project continues until october 2003. results will be made available at regular intervals. more information can be found on the website. in the event of new scientific data coming to light, the commission would of course be prepared to take any necessary measures in response.
i should like to thank mr byrne for his very comprehensive and thoughtful reply. this is an important issue, which is affecting more and more people. it is a chronic health issue and has considerable effects on the quality of life of those who acquire this disease. there is increasing evidence – though i agree, for the moment at least, with commissioner byrne that it is not conclusive – that there is a link between the presence of these bacteria in pasteurised milk and the incidence of crohn's disease. i would ask the commission to consider all the evidence, when the studies are completed, and perhaps hold a seminar or a wider discussion on what measures might be taken, as this is a disease which is increasingly of concern and it is spreading. the most obvious step would be for the commission to extend the period of pasteurisation from 15 seconds at the appropriate temperature to 25 seconds. this may be the most simple and effective method. i wonder whether the commission would agree that those steps might be taken at the end of the studies?
the commission has already adopted a communication on the coordination of economic and employment policies. this coordination at union level creates the framework within which member states define their own policies. it also contributes to the ambitious lisbon objectives. we all know that the overall framework for coordination has become increasingly complex. too often new elements have been added as needed, and this has not made it easier to understand and ensure the coherence of the policy guidelines. you have put forward various proposals to improve the situation, and we have tried to take them into account in this exercise on constant law. rationalizing coordination is not just about improving timetables and organization, as it may seem at first glance. we have tried to make a fundamental change in policy coherence and evaluation of achievements, thus contributing to progress in increasing growth potential, creating more and better jobs, improving social cohesion and sustainable development. in the light of all this, the commission makes concrete proposals in its communication to increase efficiency and coordination, to improve its coherence and complementarity between the different processes and instruments; to stimulate our commitments and our ownership in terms of greater involvement of parliament and the social partners, and to increase the transparency and understanding of policy coordination and, consequently, its visibility and effects. these major policy improvements will increase the union's capacity to achieve its ambitious economic and employment objectives. i would like to comment on two key points: firstly, the commission proposes to better articulate the policy coordination cycle around three points: implementation, policy guidelines and guidelines. these will be the key points that will make the coordination cycle more transparent and improve its effects. the cycle will begin with the preparation of the spring european council. at the beginning of each year, the commission will present a package of evaluation of implementation to accompany the spring report, presenting both the evolution of progress in the various areas affecting the implementation of the broad economic policy guidelines and the draft joint employment report. the spring report will therefore focus on where progress needs to be accelerated and will propose key policy guidelines for the spring european council. on this basis, the spring european council will formulate broad political guidelines in mid-march and the commission, taking these guidelines into account, will present its guidelines at the beginning of april, which will include both the broad economic policy guidelines and the employment guidelines. the relevant council configurations will adopt the set of guidelines after obtaining the support of the june european council. the second key point in the proposals the commission is putting forward today is to improve the efficiency of coordination. we therefore suggest that we should focus more on the medium term when formulating our guidelines. the guidelines as a whole will take a more differentiated medium-term perspective and will be reviewed in full only once every three years. in the intervening years, changes shall be limited to those necessary to take account of the most relevant developments in that period. the more strategic approach will give the guidelines stability in the various policies and facilitate their better follow-up. the coherence will also be enhanced by greater clarity of the content to be covered by the respective instruments and their synchronisation. such better complementarity will reinforce the core political messages. the commission suggests that this rationalisation be put into effect quickly and the first set of new guidelines should be adapted at the spring 2003 european council, with the commission presenting its first implementation assessment package in early 2004. the new cycle will therefore be fully operational before the elections to this parliament. in addition to these improvements, which will come into effect for the 2003 cycle, the commission has put forward a number of amendments to the law currently in force in the treaties concerning the coordination of economic policies. i shall not go into that today; i simply want to remind you, as i said at the beginning of my speech, that these issues are not linked to this streamlining process we are discussing today, since, as i said, we are doing so under constant law. i would like to conclude by stressing that the commission appreciates the contribution to policy coordination that parliament has made, and we look forward with great interest to its suggestions in the guidelines we are going to put forward and in this process of rationalization. their contributions and participation are a sign of the broad commitment to the common policy guidelines and to improving economic and social outcomes. my colleague anna diamantopoulou will comment on some more elements of this coordination process which we have both presented together today.
the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the debate on the employment package last year, parliament was clear in its call for the need to streamline procedures. the same request was made by the barcelona council. i would therefore say that this communication is a response to the requests of both parliament and the council for the timing of the procedures. as mr solbes mira has rightly said, it is not just a technical arrangement. it's not just a better chronological arrangement of the issues. there is indeed an ambitious political objective which is about better defined policies, better governance and greater efficiency. it is important that we proceed to this synchronisation, to this new common procedure, taking into account the experience of the ten years of implementation of the economic guidelines after maastricht, the five years of implementation of the employment strategy and, of course, the overall lisbon framework. i would like to make a few comments on the european employment strategy in particular. firstly, it is clear that both strategies will be strengthened and more easily understood within the lisbon framework. secondly, it is important that there is now a medium-term horizon. we do not have guidelines every year or recommendations every year, there is a medium-term horizon. our aim is to have the new guidelines drawn up by 2010, with a mid-term review in 2006, as requested by barcelona. so we have at the same time a medium-term vision where we put the targets and the guidelines and at the same time we have an annual audit, an annual collaboration where the policies are monitored and this keeps the momentum of the strategy. the third point is the clear objective of this effort: to achieve greater coherence between the two policies. it is clear that there is a division of roles between the policies. the economic guidelines provide the general framework. it is the framework within which the employment guidelines move, but it is the employment guidelines that set the most detailed framework, the objectives, and propose individual strategies. the next point concerns improving the governance of economic and social policies, which is also being discussed in the convention on the revision of the treaty. we are showing that while respecting the autonomy of each policy, as defined by the treaty, we are at the same time able to set a single economic framework for the union. i believe that the european parliament will be much clearer and more transparent, as it will receive all the basic elements linked to the implementation of economic and structural policy at a specific time and in a coordinated way from the two portfolios. i would also like to assure you that as far as effective consultation of parliament is concerned, that will be maintained. the time is only being moved from autumn to spring and our aim is to have effective cooperation with parliament in this whole new context.
mr president, i would like to thank the commission for today's communication. i do, however, remain concerned about two points. the lisbon summit foresaw a key coordinating role for the european council itself. although it remained unspoken, one of the main reasons for that was to avoid the whole procedure being dominated by ecofin. in the procedure in this communication there is a fundamental breakdown, following the june council. we then have the separate competitiveness, employment and ecofin councils making the final decisions in their respective areas. it is at that point that ecofin will become dominant and will hamstring the other two councils. that is a fundamental flaw in the whole procedure. my second concern is that the first and last mention of parliament is in may, in relation to the employment guidelines. if the commission as an institution is serious about the involvement of parliament, it should be joining with us in calling for an interinstitutional agreement to give parliament a formal say in the preparations for the spring council.
mr president, i am pleased to hear that parliament will be receiving documents before we are supposed to be drawing up our reports – that is something positive. the question i want clarified is: where does sustainable development fit into this? in his introduction commissioner solbes talked about sustainable growth, which is not the same as sustainable development – some growth can destroy the environment and jobs and is not particularly sustainable. so where is the sustainability element going to come from? how is this going to be determined through a qualitative analysis of growth, and how is this going to fit into this coordination which we are hoping to see in future? at the moment this is a missing element and yet it is supposed to be a key element of the spring summits as decided at göteborg?
mr president, i wanted to catch your eye before mr folias started, because i believe that all of us here would like to write into the record before the debate that we are recommencing this debate ten hours – i repeat, ten hours – after it was first started. i, and i am sure my colleagues, in particular the rapporteur, consider this is a quite unacceptable way of planning our business as a serious parliament on this most important subject. i shall look forward to contributing later, but i wanted that on the record now, because it is very important that you as president understand how seriously we regard the way this has been handled.
mr president, i warmly welcome, on behalf of my colleagues in the united kingdom conservative party, this very elegant and simple proposal for reform of the single market. it will perhaps surprise colleagues that the regulatory content of this regulation before us occupies eight clauses and three pages and yet we had 200 amendments. part of the problem – i say this particularly to the commissioner because i know he is sympathetic to this – is that despite the fact that the single market is at the centre of economic reform of the lisbon goals, when a simple proposal for reform is put forward we are in the extraordinary position that a significant number of member states oppose it and, indeed, members seek to change and dilute it. we have reached an acceptable compromise, thanks to the heroic efforts of mr beysen. i am confident we will get a strong majority for this tomorrow and it is absolutely right that we should. how can we justify in the single market today a position where people shopping in antwerp will get entirely different deals, offers and conditions to people who shop in rotterdam, only a few miles away? that story is repeated across the european union. the purpose of this regulation is to empower consumers to make choices in the single market, by giving them information and allowing them to exercise their choice. a lot of the proposals and a lot of the amendments by the socialist group, which i am sure we will reject tomorrow, reflect the old mentality of trying to tell consumers what is best for them. that world has gone! we are talking about an internet world where people can shop all over the european union and where businesses can put out offers to them. this is a crucial measure. in conclusion, i want to thank the commissioner for the remarks he made in the commercial communication, where he said parliament comes to rescue the internal market. this side of the house and this committee shall continue to do that. we shall also rescue europe's consumers from the over-interference that some colleagues are proposing.
the commission mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr berenguer fuster, and the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the quality of the report. given the employment situation in the community, every aspect of employment is, and must be, a key political priority. i welcome the parliament's comments on this proposal, which aims to reduce the administrative burden on national authorities who use state aid measures to respond to the employment challenge. my satisfaction is made all the greater by the generally very favourable tone of the report. as you know, and as the honourable member has just mentioned, the proposal concerns a fourth exemption regulation in the field of state aid, which follows on from those already in force in the fields of training, aid to small and mediumsized enterprises and aid falling within the de minimis thresholds. the main objective of all these regulations is to reduce the administrative burden on national authorities by exempting them from the obligation to notify measures which are clearly compatible with the internal market. the proposal concerns the relationship between two essential objectives of the community: employment and competition. it is clear that a balance needs to be struck between these two objectives, and by this i do not mean to suggest that competition and employment are two conflicting objectives. on the contrary, we believe that, at the global level, the maintenance of a dynamic market economy in which competitive forces can be fully expressed contributes greatly to the increase in employment levels. there are, of course, a number of measures which the member states can take and do take to promote employment. many of these measures do not constitute state aid, in particular because they are not selective but cover the whole of the economic activity of a member state. the draft regulation does not concern these measures. it should also be noted that in many cases state aid with different primary objectives has the implicit objective of promoting employment, such as regional investment aid and aid to certain sectors. the regulation in question concerns only aid formally and explicitly linked to the attainment of employment objectives. the text goes beyond simplifying administrative requirements and also clarifies the basic rules applicable to employment aid.
mr president, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur. he has worked very hard on this report and it is a good one. the report and the underlying regulation seek to establish clearer and more transparent rules for state aid for employment. streamlined procedures for member states wishing to aid employment schemes are to be welcomed and sensitivity to local circumstances is also desirable. the report welcomes and expresses support for the state aid register, which the british conservatives have made a priority. it is vitally important that we keep track of the various member states and their record on state aid. in terms of general principles, we believe that it is vitally important to restrict the areas where state aid can be given. i am not sure whether we would go as far as mr monti – i believe he has referred to state aids in the past as evil – but we certainly believe that it is necessary to restrict state aid in order to maintain economic efficiency and economic prosperity and a level playing field between companies in different member states. having said that, this report and the regulation acknowledge that certain state aids are acceptable and indeed desirable in relation to employment schemes. we are, however, very wary about the degree of extension that can be accepted even in this case, because of our suspicion of state aids. but we believe the commission has drawn the line at a sensible point. that is also reflected in the report. i would not go as far as amendment no 1, as put forward by mr berenguer fuster. in particular paragraph (a) of amendment no 1, which seems to specifically condemn temporary as opposed to permanent contracts, is not appropriate and should not be supported by the house. i ask the house to remember that state aid, in this context, is rather like a band-aid or a sticking plaster being applied to a gaping wound. state aid for employment, where it is permitted, as appropriate, by this regulation, can never actually solve europe's unemployment problems. it is appropriate to permit government state aid for employment schemes in restricted circumstances, but the real way to tackle the 18 million unemployed in europe, to give people genuine job opportunities, is by labour market reform, by producing structural and economic reform and labour market flexibility, making it easier to hire people. that is the way to deal with the serious and unacceptably high level of unemployment in the european union. so we accept this as a pragmatic and sensible measure. both the regulation and the report make sensible proposals, but it is vitally important that we address the key issue, which is labour market flexibility and economic reform.
mr president, i want to welcome articles 5 and 6 of the draft regulation, which give a positive signal to member state governments to support special arrangements for so-called reasonable accommodation to promote the employment of disabled workers. however, i want to ask commissioner monti, in replying to the debate, to address the 400 000 disabled workers, such as those at remploy in southend in my constituency – and in other workplaces throughout europe – where the company employs more than 50% of disabled workers unable to work in the open labour market. this is known as sheltered or supported employment. i know the commissioner has received representations from the general, municipal and boilermakers trade union and many others that the actual organisational, administrative and transport costs of such companies should also be exempted from the state aid rules. i understand that the advisory committee on state aids has given an initial sympathetic response to this proposal. tonight i hope the commissioner will reassure this parliament and those many disabled people who are unable otherwise to attain a job in the open workplace that europe will fully recognise their rights and their aspirations in its competition rules.
mr president, iraqi dictator saddam hussein poses a real threat. he has used weapons of mass destruction in the past to oppress his own people and in seeking to draw israel into a wider middle east war. the international community has a responsibility to stop iraq developing weapons of mass destruction. yet the consequences of war are potentially so serious that, for my group, it should be only a last resort. avoiding war does not mean letting saddam hussein off the hook. those who urge america not to launch a pre-emptive strike against iraq are not appeasers, as donald rumsfeld implies when he compares george w. bush to winston churchill. to my mind that comparison is more absurd than dan quayle comparing himself to john f. kennedy. if i may paraphrase senator lloyd benson i would say 'donald, george w. bush ain't no winston churchill'! the real lesson of history is this: churchill correctly identified the nazi threat at an early stage but when he acted it was not unilaterally and pre-emptively. he drew a line in the sand. he acted with moral authority and international backing when that line was crossed. churchill did not bomb berlin and try to overthrow the nazi regime based on his suspicions of hitler; he acted in concert with his allies when it was clear that he had right on his side. for the eldr group the issue today is about getting united nations weapons inspectors back into iraq, not about george w. bush settling an old family score with saddam hussein. the iraqi government must comply with un resolutions and must let weapons inspectors back in unconditionally. once in, those inspectors must be allowed to go wherever they want, whenever they want. only if iraq refuses to readmit inspectors, if it unreasonably obstructs their work or if those inspectors find evidence of iraq developing weapons of mass destruction would the international community be justified in taking further action. european governments must make clear their support for un-backed military action in those circumstances. if it comes to war it must be the international community that acts together, not the united states unilaterally. a un resolution needs to be approved setting a deadline for iraqi compliance. a broad international coalition must be built and must include arab countries if we are to convince world opinion that we are not seeking a clash of civilisations. frankly, as the commissioner said, our task would be a lot easier if the us showed the same focus on resolving the crisis in the middle east, as it does on removing saddam hussein. we also need to think seriously about how to rebuild stability in the region after any strike. the international coalition, including america, must commit resources to nation-building. unless we rebuild its economy and society and help to develop viable political institutions, an iraq devastated by war would risk imploding and posing an even greater danger to the stability of the region. we cannot postpone the debate much longer by claiming that no decisions are imminent. i would say this to the president-in-office of the council: mr haarder, it is no good saying the european union's position is clear while referring to a statement of 20 may. the union's position is as clear as mud. if it were clear, ambassador burghardt in washington would not lament how member states are jealously guarding their own access to the american administration rather than acting as a common front. just as at the un summit in johannesburg, the european union will have influence only if it acts as a united states of europe. that is your job. consensus needs to be built about how to tackle the threat, evidence of weapons of mass destruction needs to be published and – most importantly of all – any strike needs to be backed by international law and the moral authority of the international community. the world cannot afford the instability which would come from a unilateral and pre-emptive military adventure in iraq. (applause)
mr president, first of all i welcome this debate this morning. it has come at an opportune time. to a large extent the problem we face in iraq is the unfinished business of the gulf war. we have to recognise that before we begin. mr watson referred to the previous president bush and the fact that to some extent the most recent president bush maybe hopes to resolve some of his father's failures. the truth is, and we have got to face it, saddam hussein has effectively made fools out of the international community ever since that time. time and time again he has led them forward by the nose and time and time again they have allowed him to get away with it. yes, the united nations has done sterling work but with no success for weapons inspection to date. i welcome mr blair's statement this morning, whatever it means. no doubt he will not be able to tell us everything but perhaps he could throw some light on the situation. the weapons of mass destruction must be destroyed to protect the free world. yes, saddam hussein has ruled iraq with an iron fist, he is an evil dictator. we must ensure that iraq is approached in a multilateral way. there must be no unilateral approach. i believe there must be a wide-ranging international coalition supported by the united nations resolution. this is not a resolution for doing nothing, as many americans would say, but assures widespread support for that action and much of it has been outlined here this morning. we must engage congress as mr barón crespo said, but i have to tell this house in my experience congress is thinking of the november 5 elections and is not all that much engaged or wanting to engage in discussions with the european parliament. however, we in the european union must be central to this.
mr president, we run the risk today of fiddling while rome burns. at any moment the current low-intensity aerial defence of southern and northern iraq – which has been carried out at considerable personal risk by pilots from the usa, originally from france, and also from the uk, to whom i pay tribute as they have saved countless lives – may be stepped up to considerably heavier military action, which i believe will have support from a wide number of countries which are at present silent about their opinions. the eu voice must be heard. we must no longer stand on the sidelines, wringing our hands and repeating like a hopeless prayer 'iraq must comply with un conventions and the weapons inspectors must go in' because this leopard will not change his spots. we have ample evidence of the use of weapons of mass destruction. i have first-hand personal evidence of the use of such weapons: chemical warfare against the southern iraqi people in the late 1990s. i have talked to the victims who stumbled choking from clouds of yellow smoke that must have been mustard gas. we have evidence first hand of the destruction of the environment, the water, the degradation of life in the marshes of the deep south, for example. we talk in johannesburg about the need to bring water to millions more people, yet we have allowed saddam hussein to take away the water from over half a million iraqi people. we have stood silent. we have first-hand evidence of that. we have been overflying the south since 1994. on human rights and genocide: as max van der stoel said when he was human rights reporter on iraq for the united nations: 'genocide has been carried out against the marsh arabs and the iraqi people'. we have evidence of that; i personally have had evidence at first hand. on weapons of mass destruction: surely our quarrel is not precisely about having weapons of mass destruction – quite a number of countries sadly have such weapons – it is what you do with them that counts. we have the continuing threats of saddam hussein to invade kuwait and iran. i have seen the mined borders and the tanks just over the borders from iran. we have that evidence available. what can we do? we can set up the office of inquiry for human rights violations that was recommended in our report, which the commissioner so kindly referred to just now. we had a full house – an 85% majority for the vote on that report. i call upon the commissioner and the council of ministers to set up that office today. (applause from the centre and the right)
mr president, mr de rossa can talk about united states unilateralism; perhaps we should better refer to the united states shouldering responsibilities which are ignored by others. what a pity it is that other countries have not joined in enforcing the no-fly zone over iraq over the last ten years, something which has been referred to already. responsibility has been borne by the united states, by the united kingdom and in the early days by france. this is the sort of allied coming together that we should be seeing. it seems to me that there is too much speculation about the nature of some sort of attack on iraq while our concern should really be the threat posed by saddam hussein's regime being in possession of weapons of mass destruction. it would be a dereliction of duty by any of our governments if they were aware of a threat to our security and chose to do nothing about it. we must take effective action against iraq and it is most important that we show allied solidarity. perceptions are absolutely vital here and it would be fatal if saddam hussein misread the intentions of the west, of the european union and of other allies and if he thought that he was able to create divisions among those allies. we must send a very strong signal to saddam hussein that we stand together on this. this is a signal of solidarity. if there are any differences among allies it is time for those differences to be sorted out behind closed doors and not in public discussion. we need to send the right message. we started to misread the intentions of saddam hussein in early 1990. we almost made a mistake then. we regarded him as a rational man, we rather thought that he would not invade kuwait at that time. in fact he is an irrational leader in control of very dangerous weapons. we must show the solidarity to take the necessary action to remove those weapons from his hands.
mr president, much has been said of the evil and immoral behaviour of saddam hussein and rightly so, but i want to focus on the european union and indeed on one member state in particular, my own, the united kingdom. mr blair made it clear yesterday that he will support the us in a war on iraq, without waiting until other options have been explored and without seeking a fresh un security council resolution. in a press conference yesterday, he implicitly backed the principle of pre-emptive action on iraq, saying that the simple restoration of weapons inspectors into iraq may not be sufficient to avert war. we cannot enforce international law by breaking international law. a war on iraq in these circumstances would be immoral, illegal, dangerous and wrong. much has been said about the importance of the eu having a common front and a common voice and i agree with that. in that case i urge the commission, the council and all other eu heads of state to do all they can to help us restrain their fellow eu member state.
mr president, un resolution 678 and the 1991 us congressional resolution predicated the whole gulf war ceasefire agreement on the undertaking that iraq would dispose of all weapons of mass destruction, but instead unscom inspectors were expelled accused of being american spies. saddam hussein still possesses huge quantities of biological and chemical weapons and three years ago he attempted to buy weapons-grade uranium from serbia. he has been negotiating with north korea to acquire ballistic missile technology. therefore he clearly poses a global threat to oil supplies, and, were he to become a nuclear power, could hold the whole world to ransom. let us also be morally consistent. nobody in this house asked for un resolutions to attack milosevic's serbia, and human rights violations alone were deemed sufficient. surely saddam hussein's violations of the rights of the kurds whom he has gassed, the marsh arabs and the shias whom he has tortured and killed, and the israelis, where he has paid the families of suicide bombers to kill innocent victims, are much worse than any of milosevic's crimes, – not to mention the british and the americans whom he has sworn revenge against for our participation in the gulf war. i remain sceptical about neighbouring countries' concerns about military intervention, as some fear democracy in iraq and others giving the kurds autonomy in the north. i welcome foreign minister de palacio's support yesterday for the british and american position. i also hope that china and russia will not veto any requests in the un security council for further resolutions on this matter, should america so request. in the west, we should support our american allies' quest to complete the unfinished business of ridding the world of this extremely evil man.
mr president, i know that the president-in-office, a highly respected former colleague in this house, will take back our views to the general affairs council. there may be no consensus among the member states, but there is broad consensus in this house. since the end of the gulf war, our strategy has been one of containment and deterrence. to change that strategy, we need compelling evidence that our objectives in the regions would be better served by military strikes. even with such evidence, military action should not be undertaken without clear and realistic political objectives and a commitment to finance and administer the necessary reconstruction. to win a war against terrorism in one country, you need broad consensus of support in that country. to win a war against terror across borders, we need to build a consensus across borders. the council must unite, either to agree such objectives, to make such a commitment, to build such a consensus, or to rein in the declared ambitions of the united states. mr president-in-office, an opinion poll by the german marshall fund and the council on foreign relations shows that two european citizens in three support the union acting in this way. we in this debate are urging you to seize the initiative.
- the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the situation in afghanistan.
- as i am not present at the conference of presidents, i am not aware of your discussions, but mr haarder will have the opportunity to respond at the end of the debate. if he then wishes to bring up the matter, he will be free to do so.
commission. – the minister may well want, on behalf of the presidency, to say a word about those allegations of human rights atrocities. i was certainly intending to say something myself, which i do not imagine will be very different from the presidency's remarks. indeed it would be a cause of considerable diplomatic anxiety were we to be saying anything very different on this subject. i am sure we will not. i would like to thank parliament for this timely opportunity to review the situation in afghanistan. it is almost a year ago that the events of 11 september catapulted a country which the european commission’s humanitarian office had labelled a 'forgotten crisis' at the beginning of that year, into the limelight of world attention. since then we have witnessed remarkable changes for the better: the taliban regime imploded more rapidly than some expected, leading to the installation of an interim authority which soon established its credentials around the world and – even more importantly – managed to develop a balanced relationship with its neighbours. in june this year, an emergency loya jirga brought to power a transitional authority which has more democratic legitimacy than any of the previous regimes over the last two decades. by and large therefore, the bonn process is on track. however, there is still a pretty bumpy road ahead. as afghanistan moves into the post-loya jirga phase, a number of key challenges need to be addressed. the most imminent is internal security – or rather, to be more accurate, the lack of it. so far, president karzai has found it extremely difficult to extend the authority of the central government to the regions, despite his own formidable efforts. this challenge is linked to the difficulty of turning warlords into politicians. some of them continue to thrive on drugs and other illicit trade; some profit from their involvement in the operation enduring freedom; others are attempting to openly challenge the leadership of president karzai. in this fluid environment, concerted long-term international support for the central government is more crucial than ever. this brings me to my second point. unless president karzai manages to show that the trust he generates among the international community in its turn generates tangible economic benefits and improved security, he will not find it easy to convince his rivals that he is the best man to lead the country through this difficult transitional period. as the going gets tougher, he needs even more of our support. the commission is therefore pursuing – along with other donors – a two-pronged strategy: delivering a tangible peace dividend to the population as swiftly as possible, while ensuring that most of this assistance flows through the central government. in turn – and this is my third point – we insist absolutely on the conditionality of our assistance. in a nutshell, this means strict adherence to the letter and spirit of the bonn process as well as to sound macroeconomic and financial management. let me turn briefly to the bonn agreement. the appointment of the constitutional commission is due very shortly. this commission’s work paves the way for the general elections due by mid-2004. it will have to make difficult decisions on the future centre-provincial structure, the question of secular versus islamic society, gender issues and the role of minorities, to name but a few thorny questions. this commission, together with the judicial commission, will also have an impact on the dealings with war criminals, both past and present. it will take time to find lasting solutions to many of these issues. the important thing, however, is that we see this country progressing, with our assistance, towards peace and long-term stability. the issue which was raised earlier about human rights atrocities is of very considerable concern to the international community. among other fora, it was discussed by the security council in a meeting on 28 august. the un, i am pleased to say, is prepared to assist the government in a future investigation. at the moment it is important to keep the grave site protected and to protect potential witnesses before an active investigation can be carried out. in my judgement, the un assistance mission in afghanistan – unama – is best placed to handle this delicate issue, supporting the key role of the afghan human rights commission in taking future steps. we totally accept that it will be necessary to take future steps and to be as transparent about the process as possible. the need for steady, long-term progress must not distract us from the huge and immediate humanitarian challenge. since march this year, 1.5 million afghans have returned from pakistan to afghanistan under the un repatriation programme. a further 116 000 have returned from iran. this is an impressive number but it is creating a large problem for the aid agencies. the same is true of the large number of internally displaced people. the international community is now faced with additional demands, both on the humanitarian and on the security front. these bills come on top of the eur 1.8 billion pledged for 2002 in tokyo in january. in such an environment, it is important to get priorities right, since it is unrealistic to assume that all the additional funding requests are going to be met at once. one such issue is the funding for the increased rate of return of refugees where some international agencies have claimed europe has not been generous enough. i can speak for the european commission. we have more than doubled the humanitarian assistance to afghanistan this year – from eur 25 million initially earmarked at the beginning of the year to eur 60 million at present. however, i believe it is a mistake to look at this issue solely in quantitative terms. the foremost challenge is – and this has been our line from the start – to ensure that this summer’s returnees do not become again this winter’s refugees. our interventions are therefore carefully linked to the overall sustainability of the return programme. for our rural recovery programme, the migratory flows are one important criterion for the selection of areas of intervention. another important selection criterion is dependence on poppy production. together with a few other donors, the commission is leading the debate on how best to develop alternative livelihoods. all these issues throw up one unavoidable conclusion: afghanistan needs partners who are prepared to be there for the long haul. this, however, is not to say that we cannot point to early achievements in our aid effort. let me give you a few examples. under the aid to uprooted people’s programme, the commission is funding the operation of 450 primary schools around the country in afghanistan. we are now supporting over 200 clinics, three district- and three provincial-level hospitals. our rural recovery and urban rehabilitation programmes are providing over 3 million person-days of work this year alone. under a contract with habitat, we are cleaning up five cities around afghanistan, preventing diseases like cholera. we are co-financing a massive mine-clearance operation. we are contributing more than any other donor to the operating costs of the government (eur 50 million from the asia and latin america budget and eur 2.5 million from the rapid reaction mechanism). while less visible, these sums finance the salaries of essential government servants, including nurses, doctors, policemen, teachers and civil servants. regarding performance, i am pleased to say that afghanistan proves that the reform of the management of external assistance produces results even under the most difficult of circumstances. of the eur 120 million available so far for recovery and reconstruction, eur 100 million has already been contracted. this figure does not include the eur 45 million in humanitarian aid under the echo programme, which has already been committed, or the further eur 15 million due to be committed under the same programme before the end of the year. i understand that parliament will vote on a draft supplementary amending budget for the remaining eur 70 million pledged for 2002 in october. it is intended for further support to the public administration, for much needed infrastructure projects and for a primary health care package. preparations for implementation of this programme are well advanced. i can assure parliament that these funds will be put to immediate use once approved. so we will have committed in afghanistan this year – committed and largely spent – almost eur 250 million – a good step forward in discharging our pledge to spend eur 1 billion over 5 years. that, the house will recall, has been achieved almost from a standing start. it was, of course, only possible because of the understanding of the budgetary authority – parliament and the member states. but it has also been achieved because of the outstanding work done on the ground by our delegation and our echo staff. i cannot speak too highly of their cheerful dedication and professionalism in very tough circumstances. i much enjoyed meeting them during my visit in may and look forward to making a return trip. we in the commission have good reason to be proud of those, like our team in kabul, who do such a first-class job. they will, i know, work as well with our new, experienced eu representative ambassador vendrell as they did with his committed predecessor ambassador klaiber. i am determined to ensure that the european commission remains fully engaged in afghanistan even if world attention shifts to other places of conflict and post-conflict rehabilitation. let me again thank the european parliament for its very constructive attitude in dealing with additional budgetary needs to underwrite this commitment. i hope that as the months and years pass, members of this parliament will be able to go to afghanistan – as they have been going to the balkans in the last few years – and see european assistance being provided generously, efficiently and wisely, as it should be everywhere. (applause)
- we shall not be able to conclude this debate before lunch, but we shall continue until about 12.20 to hear the representatives of the various political groups.
mr president, i congratulate the commission and the team led in the commissioner's office by mr fotiadis and those on the ground for the amazing work they are carrying out. i attended the tokyo pledging conference and was proud to see the way in which european union leadership in nation rebuilding was exemplified by both the commission and the presidency. i congratulate the commissioner himself and the presidency at the time – the spanish presidency – for the way in which they conducted the business of the european union there. but the commission's subsequent work has proved my view to be correct: amongst the international community blocs claiming to be able to rebuild nations, the european union is standing alone. and we are working in a tough and dangerous situation. afghanistan is a very difficult country to help. for example the main message coming from the afghan government at the moment is that international pledges made in tokyo are not being fulfilled and the government therefore cannot conduct its business. last saturday i had the opportunity to speak in tehran with the new afghan ambassador to the islamic republic of iran. he made this very point. i pointed out to him that the one partner on which he could firmly rely was the european union. i commend the priorities the union has set itself, as the commissioner has outlined today, because, as i said, it is not a simple matter. water. one member – mr morillon – has already mentioned the acute drought. the acute drought is so widespread in the south-west of afghanistan – it feeds across from the plain in iran. there are 26 major water projects under way in the islamic republic of iran to try and provide the local population with water. over the border in afghanistan, i have seen no water projects at all on the ground. yet this is the largest drought for at least 300 years. it has hit many hundreds of thousands of people. of course in a drought the farmers cannot grow alternative crops. the south-west of afghanistan is not particularly heavily mined. they can grow opium poppies in this drought. unfortunately, poppies grow extremely well in drought. until we put water projects in the south-west region, we cannot complain as much as we do that opium production is not being contained. of course it is not being contained. the figures provided by the afghan government have been unintentionally misleading to the international community. water ought to be one of the topmost priorities. on health care, the population is virtually at the lowest ebb. life expectancy is 46 years – the lowest in the world apart from somalia. all the health indicators show that health has been abominable for the last 23 years and there is a lack of education. may we insist that other international donors focus on small-scale health projects to implement the world health organisation master plan on health. not large hospitals, for which there will not be enough staff or resources, but more mass immunisation, more primary health clinics, more mobile health clinics. could we please press other donors to focus on those areas? then, of course, women's rights. i must tell you that women's rights have gone downhill, not up. only last week, for example, the government passed a law stating that women would not be allowed to perform music on the radio. so it is not easy. i congratulate the commission and i urge it to persuade other donors to adopt the same approach as our team in brussels and on the ground. we are doing wonderfully well; others, i fear, are not being nearly as successful. (applause)
- we now adjourn the debate to allow for the vote. the debate will resume at 3 p.m.
mr president, i was the member responsible for the successful amendment to the corbett report, as a result of which the book where you sign written declarations under rule 51 was moved to just outside this chamber instead of being stuck in an office which nobody could find. i spoke to the official there today, who complained that not a single member has shown any interest in reading the declarations or signing the book, even though the procedure is now much easier and more convenient. can members please cooperate with this project, in order to justify the change and the human resources dedicated to making it work?
mr president, this report was voted under rule 110a of the rules of procedure, which allows for no debate in parliament and no amendments to the report. the british delegation of the ppe-de group has previously sought to amend reports which it did not support. the new rule, however, leaves no option but to vote against certain reports. the british conservatives deplore violence of any kind and welcome measures to combat this, including some of the initiatives under the daphne programme. violence, especially against women or children, is completely unjustifiable and cannot be accepted. however, the measures called for in article 18 of the avilés perea report represent an infringement of the member states' right to determine their own criminal justice systems and represent measures to introduce harmonisation of criminal law. the calls for a specific european legal base infringe the principle of subsidiarity. we strongly believe that national parliaments and not the european parliament should lay down laws relating, for example, to eviction of violent partners. whilst accepting that good work is being carried out by the daphne programme, the british conservatives are opposed to the principles of the report, for the reasons outlined.
in writing. - i fully support this report, which will potentially ensure that european consumers are all housed in the same shop and that sales promotions are standardised across the union. indeed, one of the main arguments in favour of the euro is that european citizens will be able to compare prices across borders. this advantage is now distorted by the fact that different types of sales promotion exist in the member states and price transparency between countries is therefore effectively distorted. once it enters into force, this directive will represent a further step towards the achievement of a fully operational single market. this proposal is therefore the best way to achieve price transparency and to guarantee fair treatment. however, as the committee recommends, the decision on the prohibition of rebates on fixed-price products should remain a prerogative of the member states, and i fully support the committee's insistence that the principle of subsidiarity be upheld in this area.
mr president, in all our efforts to help construct a better afghanistan we should not lose sight of why we are now involved there with such commitment. it is, of course, to root out terrorism, to help build a peaceable, well-disposed, durable and better society and to ensure that the extremists do not set down fresh roots either within the country or elsewhere. all our actions should be measured against these yardsticks and we should be under no illusions about the fragility of the situation, which poses major challenges both for isaf and the other coalition forces operating within the country. there is now wider agreement about the desirability of isaf broadening its mandate beyond kabul. this is not just a matter of the availability of suitable international forces but, as commission patten has said, it also tests the willingness of reluctant local warlords, often backed by foreign interests in the region, to comply with the authority of kabul. the turkish armed forces are to be congratulated on the satisfactory completion of the first half of their span of command of isaf. the building of a professional and reliable afghan army and police force, which is happening in parallel largely under american, british and french auspices, will take time and there seems little doubt that isaf will have to continue its operations next year and an early indication of the follow-on command arrangements is needed. the last thing we need, when action against iraq is in the air, is uncertainty about military arrangements in afghanistan. i should like to highlight three particular aspects of the situation: refugees, eu funding and the landmine issue. firstly, refugees, which mr haarder touched on earlier. there is now a degree of security in afghanistan. yet, while many refugees have returned to the country, millions remain in iran and pakistan. some talk about two or three million respectively, though estimates differ significantly. furthermore, a large proportion of refugees and asylum-seekers coming to britain and other european countries originate from afghanistan. we should bear in mind that many have extremist backgrounds and that we are therefore vulnerable to the implantation and cultivation of islamic extremists within our own societies, not just from afghanistan. this is madness. more focused and determined action is needed to deal with these problems and encourage return to afghanistan. on the funding question, the usd 4.5 billion pledged at tokyo in january, including over usd 1 billion from the european union, has, for the most part, been slow to arrive – although i note the commissioner's remarks about the way the commission has responded. there is an absorption problem: the afghan interim government lacks the institutions to disburse the money efficiently and needs greater assistance in this area. at the same time there has to be proper control and management of international funds. i say this at a time when, yet again, the european commission's procedures in this respect have been the subject of serious criticism and, as in the palestine authority area until recently, the issue of proper control of funds appears to have been largely avoided by the international community. the bonn agreement merely states: 'the members of the interim administration shall abide by a code of conduct elaborated in accordance with international standards.' this code is not published and, in any case, seems less than adequate. we must insist that measures be put in place by the afghan authorities and the international community, including the european union, to ensure the proper management, accounting and use of these funds. finally, the question of landmines, which has already been touched on by other speakers. afghanistan is one of the most heavily mined countries in the world. this was the case before last september and the situation has been exacerbated since then. the presence of landmines and uxos – unexploded ordnance – are a major obstacle to economic and social regeneration. it is estimated that between five and ten people are injured in mine blasts every day in afghanistan and that an estimated 10 million mines litter the country. we welcome the undertaking by the afghan interim government to accede to the geneva convention banning the use of antipersonnel landmines, but the mines are still there in the ground and the victims hobble through the streets. there is an urgent requirement for a properly coordinated and funded programme of action to enable the resumption of mine action operations at least at the level they had reached before last september. a concerted time-limited effort is needed, otherwise we are still going to be talking about this in ten years' time. there is much to be done in afghanistan. let us get it right, working in harmony with the united states and other allies – and all the time remember why we are there. (applause)
mr president, a year has now passed since the tragic 9/11 events which triggered the war against afghanistan, now mercifully in a mopping-up phase to search out and destroy remnants of the odious taliban regime and their al-qa'ida terrorist allies. nevertheless, afghanistan has come a long way since the rout of mullah omar and the disappearance, hopefully for good, of osama bin laden. girls are back at school, music and film are allowed again and football is replacing public hangings. we have had a successful bonn conference and a tokyo donors conference. the loya jirga was opened by the former king, whom i had the pleasure of meeting last september in rome. he has now been granted the title of 'father of the nation', as he has worked tirelessly and assiduously behind the scenes to reunite his nation and stop squabbling, particularly amongst the pashtun communities. however isaf, the international security assistance force, still has its work cut out. we have witnessed the assassination of two ministers and this week a bomb attack, presumably aimed against western forces. we still see the evils of warlordism, ethnic division and a flourishing drug trade. i was shocked to read that the opium crop this year was up to three thousand tonnes, overtaking even that of the golden triangle's 900 tonnes in myanmar and thailand. we still have the problem of considerable sympathy for islamic terrorism in neighbouring iran, where some al-qa'ida fighters have allegedly taken refuge, but almost certainly many are sheltering in pakistan, where president musharraf walks a tightrope between cooperating with the west and yet not fully cracking down on his home-grown jihadi islamic terrorist groups despite pledging to do so. these groups infiltrate indian kashmir, causing mayhem and making a war between the two nuclear neighbours a very real possibility. clearly, president musharraf does not want a peaceful kashmir election to be held. pakistan is also not fully cooperating with isaf, allowing it to enter the tribal areas of the north-west frontier region where al-qa'ida is currently regrouping to threaten afghanistan's government and civil society. the west must now be prepared to extend the mandate of turkish-led isaf forces beyond this december at the un and extend their remit to afghan provinces as well, to end the warlordism and extend the government's authority in the provinces as part of the nation-building exercise and construct a national army and police force and distribute much needed aid to a desperately poor country. sadly, the usd 1.8 billion promised in tokyo for reconstruction has yet to materialise. only humanitarian aid has been seen so far. the recent operation mountain sweep has only brought a few weapon caches to light and we still have a long way to go to make this beautiful country a peaceful and prosperous one and a respectable member of the international community again as it was once in the 1960s and 1970s. i feel particularly strongly that the government of afghanistan should grant a moratorium on the use of sharia law in areas such as the stoning to death of women and the amputation of limbs, in order to show how a modern islamic country respects international covenants and treaty obligations and promotes justice without cruelty or abuse of human rights. war criminals must also be brought to book and tried. refugees coming to the west who are terrorist sympathisers or have been active with the taliban or al-qa'ida must be sent back to face the music. i sincerely wish president karzai and ex-king mohammad zahir shah well with all the challenging problems that they face in the months to come. overall, i sincerely hope that afghanistan will again be a respectable member of the international community as it once was. (applause on the right)
the council. - mr president, i think everyone agrees that there have been great improvements in afghanistan in the last eight months, and i would like to thank members for the debate that has been held, but there is also agreement that there are still great problems - this has been underlined in particular by some of the last speeches. first of all, i would like to make a few comments on the question of possible human rights violations, in particular in connection with the recent discovery of mass graves in northern afghanistan. there can be no doubt that the council attaches the utmost importance to the afghan government and people coming to terms with the past and with any war crimes that may have been committed. of course, this does not only apply to the atrocities committed by the taliban regime. in this context, it is positive that president karzai has stated that the matter of the mass graves should be investigated. the un will play a central role in assisting the afghan government in this work, and the eu will of course also assist as far as possible, including through our special representative vendrell. as regards the difficult security situation, particularly in the areas outside kabul, i believe that the most realistic and forward-looking way forward at the moment is to strengthen the capacity of the transitional government to provide security itself, including through support for the building up of the army and police, programmes to eradicate drug production, the establishment of a well-functioning judiciary and demobilisation. a number of eu member states are making valuable contributions to this work. this also applies to the important task of clearing the many mines to which mr van orden referred. the many mines are a constant danger to the civilian population and make economic recovery difficult. the council is also aware of the great need for assistance which was pointed out by several parties, needs which may be greater than initially assumed, in particular because of the large number of returning refugees. as i said, in order to contribute to the stability of the country, we must ensure a visible peace dividend for the afghan people. aid is also an important instrument in our efforts to strengthen the transitional government at the expense of the local warlords. i would point out that the president of the council, at the general affairs council in july, reminded the member states of the need to ensure the timely disbursement of the commitments made at the tokyo donor conference earlier this year. finally, the question of the situation of women in afghanistan was raised from several angles. the strengthening of women's rights has been a central element of eu policy from the outset and we will pursue this objective both in our dialogue with the afghan parties and through our assistance. because, as mrs izquierdo rojo said, it is a question of replacing burkas with driving licences. i couldn't agree more. i am sure commissioner patten will have something to say about this. in an overall assessment of the situation in afghanistan and the action of the international community, it is important to maintain proportions. there are serious problems in afghanistan today, as many have pointed out, there are problems with security, with drug production and, not least, with women's rights. but compared with less than a year ago, the living conditions of the average afghan have taken a huge leap forward. it is not a question of the commission's being too rigid. given the circumstances, there was reason to fear the worst. the eu and its member states responded swiftly and generously as soon as the opportunity arose. thousands of europeans, soldiers, police, aid workers, officials are now making an invaluable contribution to helping afghanistan get on its feet. it is difficult, it is ungrateful, it is dangerous - more people have had to die. we must of course always be open to criticism, but all the brave and committed people who have contributed to the reconstruction of afghanistan must not have disguised their efforts. on the contrary, we owe it to them to note the great results achieved. europe has nothing to be ashamed of in afghanistan, and i would just like to add, finally, that 100,000 afghans are now returning home to afghanistan. very few people are granted asylum in our countries, because now there is safety in afghanistan, at least in large areas. the point here is that we are doing, as stated in the seville summit declaration, that we are making a strong effort for repatriation. we owe it to afghanistan and to the people who are now taking the courageous step of returning. (applause from the centre)
commission. – mr president, let me make one or two comments in reply to this debate. first of all, i am grateful for the kind words expressed about the work that has been done by our commission staff in kabul and afghanistan as a whole. those tributes are wholly justified. the remarks made about the international security assistance force underline the importance of the role that has been undertaken by the military in extending security. i am sure that member states will note what a number of members of this house have said about the possibility of extending the role of isaf and extending its mandate. it is certainly the case that, if we want to see the authority of the transitional authority run right across the whole of the country, then it is imperative that we do not undermine that authority by reinventing the warlords as part of the continuing campaign against al-qa'ida and the taliban. it is absolutely imperative that we give all our support to president karzai and his team. i want to make three other points. first of all, mrs maes reminded us of the great importance of not making the same mistakes that we made after the withdrawal of soviet troops. we are not engaged in what has occasionally been rather derisorily described as nation-building or, by one distinguished politician, as social work. all i can say is that it is a pity there was not more social work and nation-building in the 1980s after the withdrawal of soviet troops. we might have avoided some of the excesses of the taliban if that had been the case and avoided the problems that have been visited upon us. what the honourable member said is a reminder that the task that we have put our shoulder to is not going to be a short one. we have to be in afghanistan, we have to be working in partnership with afghanistan for many years to come. it is going to take a long time to complete this work. several honourable members – principally ladies, although it should be an issue of just as much importance to people of my sex as well – referred to gender issues. we must ensure that they get proper priority in our development assistance and development programmes. mrs izquierdo rojo asked about exchanging burkas for car licences. she has not, alas, been able to stay with us for the end of the debate, but i will examine the point that she made and we will certainly ensure that the delegation to which she referred gets as much help as is required. it is extremely important for members of this house to visit afghanistan, see for themselves what is going on and give their support to the early stages of the democratic process in that country. let me now deal with the issue of implementing the pledges and promises that were made in tokyo. it is obviously important, as we discovered in kosovo, in east timor and in other countries and societies recovering from crisis, to ensure that the help which is pledged arrives as swiftly as possible. not all is perfect by any means in afghanistan. when mr tannock said that only humanitarian aid had arrived so far, that was a tad exaggerated. certainly, as i made clear in my own speech, a great deal of reconstruction assistance has already been provided by the european commission and others. it is particularly notable that the money we have been providing for budgetary support just to get government running – and we have probably been the biggest providers of that support – has certainly been provided rapidly and has been well used. i want to refer to the point made by mr van orden about ensuring that even as one spends money rapidly, it is spent prudently and transparently because we have to be aware of the court of auditors, we have to be aware of the terrors of appearing in front of the committee on budgetary control or the committee on budgets, we have to be aware of the importance of keeping european public opinion on our side. just as in the case of the palestinian authority, to which he referred, it is the european commission which has actually led the way in ensuring that reformed and transparent financial controls are put in place. we have led the way in reforming those financial controls which everybody is now supporting and using. equally in afghanistan, it was the european commission which made itself tiresome by arguing initially for dollarisation of the budget, just as we did in kosovo. we were in fact the only people arguing for dollarisation of the budget. we have settled reasonably happily for other arrangements, in close consultation with the international monetary fund. i do get fed up with the suggestion again and again that we are more lax in the way we support other countries and other governments in crisis than anybody else. on the whole, what we are now managing to do is to provide assistance more rapidly and in ways which will actually stand up to the closest scrutiny by this parliament and by the court of auditors. sometimes we should actually recognise what we are achieving and not just assume that what tabloid newspapers say about us is correct. (applause)
mr president, mr van orden extends his apologies to the commissioner. he had to meet a four o'clock deadline, but he will read the commissioner's reply in the transcripts tomorrow with great interest.
madam president, i welcome the commission's communication, 'europe and asia: a strategic framework for enhanced partnerships', and mr maaten's report, for which we congratulate him. we have in the past too often neglected asia and focused more on other regions of the world, but in fact it contains a majority of the world's population. we welcome the recognition, both in the report and the commission statement, that we must engage with asia, not only in trade and economics, but in other areas as well: cultural exchanges, for example, particularly between europe and asia's moderate islamic states; justice and home affairs, in the war against terrorism, drugs traffic and organised crime, all self-evidently with a global dimension; environmental policy, where europe and asia face the same threat from pollution and environmental degradation; security policy, where, in an increasingly globalised world, a crisis on the korean peninsula – as commissioner patten mentioned – would threaten the peace and stability of the whole world. that is one reason why the european union is engaged in the kedo process. we therefore welcome the emergence of asian voices speaking together through asean and other regional fora. we also welcome and would like to encourage and deepen the widening of the asem process and its parallel parliamentary dialogue through asep. i had the opportunity to participate in the first asep meeting here in strasbourg back in 1996 and in last week's second asep meeting in manila, where we achieved a unanimity of views with statements on terrorism, the environment, on human rights for women and children. here members of the european parliament from germany, spain, belgium and italy joined with colleagues from china, japan, korea and the philippines to agree that kyoto needs to be ratified; the un must be the basis of the global war against terrorism; positive action is required to address discrimination against women; we should work with trade unions and other representatives of civil society to combat child labour. the fundamental problem is poverty, with hundreds of millions of people around the world, particularly in asia, living on less than one euro a day. we hope parliament will agree to the proposal in the amendment that i and other members of parliament have tabled to host asep iii early in 2004. we can support the broad thrust of mr maaten's report. my only criticism is that an attempt has been made to hijack the report on behalf of the taiwan lobby. of course members of parliament have a perfect right to do this, but we should be aware of what we are being asked to approve. i would remind members of the provisions of rule 9(1), annex i, article 1 on declarations of interest. on behalf of the socialist group, i have tabled amendments to attempt to correct these distortions. yes, we must recognise taiwan as one of the most important trading entities for the eu, but here we are being asked to go further. if we want to abrogate our support of the one-china policy we followed in the past, we should do so directly, rather than by hiding it within paragraph 35 on the who. membership of the world health organisation is restricted to nation states. to demand membership of the who for taiwan is to recognise it as a nation state; to grant it an independence that its own government has not even requested. equally i am at a loss to see why, if the ppe-de group is genuinely interested to allow the fundamental rights of freedom of travel for the president and senior officials of taiwan's government, it wants to restrict this to strictly private visits, rather than leave it more open. otherwise we can only conclude, if they maintain their position, that this is really a subterfuge for opening up a political process that as yet we have not agreed. with these reservations, we support the report.
mr president, as mr pirker pointed out i had the honour to lead the european parliament's delegation to the asep ii meeting in the philippines last week. this event, which was efficiently and successfully organised under the auspices of the philippine senate, concluded, as a number of colleagues have said, by issuing an agreed communiqué and statements which dealt with human rights, with special reference to women and children, terrorism and the environment. but at least as importantly, it provided some parliamentary input into the asem process, which culminates later in the year with the copenhagen meeting. in an increasingly interdependent world, where modern economics propelled by science, technology and improved transport systems breaks down the significance of national boundaries and with them the practical relevance of ringfenced national jurisdiction, the democratic political process must not get left behind. the evolution of governmental, ministerial and heads of government meetings that take decisions, which either de facto or de jure legislate or commit their component participants to legislate, should have a proper parliamentary angle and aspect. in my view this is at least as important as many of the conclusions reached by parliamentarians' meetings such as asep ii. they are the first step towards finding collective parliamentary institutions to work with collective governmental and administrative developments such as asem. i very much hope that the decisions reached by asep ii in manila, and the decision of this parliament in voting for the maaten report, will endorse the call for another meeting of asep to be held to complement the proposed 2004 asem meeting in hanoi. i also hope that this parliamentarians' meeting will be held in europe, although not necessarily here in the european parliament in strasbourg, the location of the first asep meeting in 1996. (applause)
the president-in-office made an extremely interesting remark in passing in the first half of his first answer when he referred to the president of the commission having been a former member of the european council. so it is in order for people who have been members of other eu institutions to express an opinion in their present position. the president-in-office was a very distinguished member of this parliament so he is therefore able to express an opinion, by his own words, on the state of the council now. would you agree mr president-in-office of the council, based on your experience in the parliament, that we do need separation of the powers and will you be urging the danish presidency to put this forward at the convention?
the council. - yes, as i said twice, it is a prerequisite for enlargement to be completed within the deadlines set. that is what the seville conclusions said, and i refer to them.
my question follows that one. you say it is a precondition within the time set. is that the 2004 time-limit, meaning that it will still be possible to have enlargement beyond 2004 without the nice treaty, perhaps under the system suggested by mr sjöstedt in this question?
the council. - the seville european council welcomed some communications from the commission on how to improve the way in which legislation is made. i am thinking in particular of the action plan on how to simplify and improve the quality of the legislative framework. it called on the three institutions concerned, namely parliament, the council and the commission, to do so on the basis of the work of the high level technical group and to adopt an interinstitutional agreement before the end of 2002 to improve the quality of community legislation and the conditions for transposition into national law, including the time limits. the high level technical group on interinstitutional cooperation met on 15 july 2002 and was chaired by mr. for this meeting, the presidency had drawn up a proposal for a timetable for the preparation and adoption of the commercial interinstitutional agreement, based on the specific actions concerning the three institutions proposed in the commission's action plan. at the meeting of 15 july 2002, it was decided to reach a common agreement first on the main elements of a future interinstitutional agreement. in this context, the institutions will subsequently discuss the specific content of the specific actions of the agreement. at the same time, it was stressed that the principle of an agreement on specific actions should be seen in the context of the work being done in the convention. practical measures for the impact assessment of amendments to the commission's proposal can be expected to be agreed as part of the further discussions on an interinstitutional agreement. i can inform you that the next meeting of the high level technical group is expected to take place next week, on 10 september.
it is a delight to have mr haarder with us again, in a different role. but may i say with respect that now that he has become part of the government he acquired the government's habit of not answering the question. how exactly is the council going to approach the issue of impact assessments? if the commission carries out an impact assessment as part of its better regulation proposals, will the council, when it amends the commission's proposals, carry out a further impact assessment of its own amendments? how will it do that and who will it get to do it? it is very important in terms of the interinstitutional agreement with parliament to know exactly what the council's approach is to impact assessments.
following up mr titley's point, could i ask whether the council would look seriously at the question of critically considering methodologies of impact assessment? in the years when i had something to do with this in an academic capacity, it was notorious that it was extremely difficult within the sociology of law to find reliable ways of assessing the impact of legislation which was in force. predicting the impact of legislation which is going to come into force is yet more difficult. does the president-in-office agree with me that it would be wise for the council to look into issues of methodology before we embark on expensive projects of this kind?
mr president, i would like to thank mrs stenzel for her very effective and useful report. i cannot claim to be a close observer or to have very detailed knowledge of the operations of the agency and therefore i find her report very valuable. as someone who for the last three years has been on the delegation to south-east europe and more recently a vice-chair, i feel it is essential that we keep up and develop the financial assistance to allow the balkan countries to aspire to the eventual goal, which must be membership of the european union. i was one of those who was not convinced by the original decision to site the headquarters of the agency in thessaloniki. it was the rather traditional story of doling out prizes to member states. i may have slightly changed my view because greece is playing a very valuable role in leading and in coordinating regional cooperation. yet i think we need to reconsider whether this is the most effective way for an agency that has several different bases to operate. the agency is doing a good and essential job. it will be important over time to rationalise and if possible to expand our assistance to the balkans. this assistance must evolve from reconstruction to development, just as it evolved from emergency aid to reconstruction. the network of agencies that are perhaps in danger of tripping over themselves in south-east europe is a challenge we have to resolve. it is a very complex scene – a kind of alphabet soup. it is very difficult, even for someone in my position, to understand who does what and i am not sure what the impact is on the local citizens. mrs stenzel makes several valuable points, among which is the need for agreements with other donors on 'sharing' out who is responsible for what sector to avoid overlaps. she particularly mentions that the agency should take the lead on energy in kosovo, with which i would agree. she also emphasises the need for a strategy on the future of the agency's relations with eu delegations. i wonder from my experience in skopje whether we have not gone too far in bypassing the competence of the local commission delegation. i felt there was a danger of the agency taking a slightly imperialist tone towards the local delegation. in view of the upcoming elections on 15 september, i am still not sure that we have reconstructed enough houses there.
mr president, i congratulate mr coelho on a very strong report, which is concrete and specific. he makes it clear that european citizenship not only supplements and complements national citizenship but also that the concept should adapt to include the rights of long-term resident foreign nationals. i would just take issue with him on one point. in 2004, elections to the greater london authority are due to take place one month before the european elections. i hope agreement will be reached to postpone them for one month so that they take place on the same day, which will help raise turnout and make a legitimate connection, in the sense of a europe of the regions. mr coelho adopts a fully justified tone of impatience. the rights of people must not continue to lag behind the rights of goods. in several areas i fully support him: openness, transparency, freedom of information. in the eu we are still depressingly opaque and inaccessible. information documents must become more available. secondly, of course our citizens want protection against crime and terrorism, but there is a very poor level of democratic scrutiny in the area of police and judicial cooperation. we must improve this situation. also, measures to combat crime and terrorism must have due regard to respect for human rights, including the right to a fair trial. the rapporteur stresses elimination of discrimination, on which i fully support him, but i would also add that respect for cultural traditions must not be at the expense of fundamental human rights. lastly, life is too much of a hassle for people when they try to exercise their european rights, whether it be residence permits, family reunions, social security or access to justice. i have a constituent – and i have brought this to the attention of the commissioner – against whom proceedings were brought in the civil courts in the uk and whose case was thrown out by the english high court. proceedings were then brought against her on the basis of exactly the same facts by the criminal courts in spain and she suffered years of worry and expense, until the case was finally thrown out just a month or so ago. why is there not mutual recognition of the same facts between a civil and a criminal case? my conclusion is that we need to reinforce our monitoring of the implementation of citizenship and human rights standards. we must take the opportunity of transforming a process which is currently being applied to the candidate countries into a genuine european union peer review process, so that the standards of citizenship and human rights applied in each of our member states is the concern of all of us on a cross-national basis.
commission. – mr president, i welcome this opportunity to report on the recent contamination of the feed and food chain with medroxy-progesterone acetate, or mpa as it is commonly known. i must stress that the commission takes this incident very seriously indeed. it is simply unacceptable that hormones should find their way into the food and feed chains. so, having found ourselves in this regrettable situation, what action did we take? first, my services called an emergency meeting of the standing committee on the food chain and animal health on 10 july, with further meetings following on 16 and 24 july. these were in addition to the continuous contacts between the commission services and their counterparts in the member states. these efforts were very successful in reducing the risk to public health to a minimum. however, this success was achieved at a very high cost. very substantial quantities of food and feed had to be traced and destroyed. the impact has been particularly severe in the netherlands. investigations into the factors which allowed the contamination to take place are, of course, ongoing. however, two factors in particular already stand out: firstly, the application of community legislation on the movement and disposal of pharmaceutical waste, and secondly, the carelessness of certain feed producers in their selection of raw material suppliers. investigations into the onward distribution of the contaminated glucose syrup revealed that it had been delivered to feed mills and traders and, to a limited extent, to the food industry. the contaminated feed was produced mostly for pigs, but also, to a much lesser extent, for cattle, poultry, zoo animals and pets. this contaminated feed could be separated into two groups: a lesser quantity of highly contaminated feed distributed to 57 farms in the netherlands and larger quantities with a low level of contamination. in response to the situation, the standing committee agreed the following measures. all animals fed with highly contaminated feed would be kept under strict official control. member states would test individual animals fed with the highly contaminated feed and only release them for consumption if results confirmed that mpa could not be detected. the authorities in the netherlands chose to destroy pigs fed with the highly contaminated feed, thus removing them entirely from the food chain. all samples from animals fed with the low contamination feed tested negative for the presence of mpa and the restriction was therefore lifted. several hundred samples of glucose syrup, molasses and feed have been analysed and, as a result, thousands of tonnes of contaminated raw materials and feeding stuffs have been recalled, seized and destroyed. the next meeting of the standing committee is planned for 11 september. at this meeting, the measures taken by the member states in relation to the mpa contamination will be reviewed. however, we can already conclude that the measures were successful in limiting the potential risk to the public. they were also very successful in averting any unilateral restrictions by member states or third countries on trade, particularly from the netherlands. clearly we have to learn the lessons from the contamination and avoid any repetition. at the agriculture council of 15 july 2002, i repeated my call for the member states’ competent authorities for food and feed to exercise stricter control to ensure a high level of consumer health protection. feed and food operators need to be more aware of their responsibilities in this area. we all consider the food law a major step forward for the protection of human health. in that context, the responsibilities of feed and food operators are clearly established. feed operators must ensure that the raw materials they buy are safe. in the very near future the commission will be proposing a major reform of the community’s system of official controls, in order to create a harmonised, coordinated and more effective system of controls on food and feed. in addition, the food and veterinary office is urgently investigating the operation and control of the animal feed sector. its aim will be to pinpoint how recent contamination incidents have been allowed to occur and to identify the action that needs to be taken to prevent similar incidents arising in the future. furthermore, in order to complete the legal framework for the entire feed sector, the commission will present a new proposal on feed hygiene at the earliest opportunity. we intend to put forward general hygiene rules for the production, distribution and feeding of animals and also to enlarge the scope of the registration system for feed operations. under the current arrangements, only establishments dealing with certain feed additives are registered. clearly this is not sufficient to ensure traceability of all feed materials. in this context, a positive list of feed materials is being looked at with a view to increasing consumer protection, as parliament itself has requested. i am pleased to say that the feasibility study you requested is nearly complete. you will receive the report with our analysis before the end of this year. at the same time, the question arises as to whether community legislation in relation to the waste sector is sufficiently stringent and properly implemented. i would remind you that had existing waste legislation been correctly applied in the case of mpa, it would have prevented such an incident. i alerted my colleague, mrs wallström, as soon as it became apparent that the problem involved pharmaceutical waste. discussions have taken place with waste experts from the member states and are continuing. one lesson we can learn from this incident is the need for closer coordination and cooperation between the authorities responsible for the waste sector and those responsible for feed and food safety. the authorities of the member states involved in this affair have been asked to provide all relevant information to enable the case to be assessed from an environmental point of view. on the basis of that assessment, the commission will take any further action deemed necessary. finally, it goes without saying that incidents such as this only serve to undermine our efforts to restore consumer confidence in our food supply. we need to redouble our efforts, in terms not just of legislation but also better enforcement and control, to make such incidents a thing of the past.
mr president, food safety has been high on our parliamentary menu for the past three years. we have had scares and scandals in europe on olive oil, contaminated wine, mineral water, listeria, salmonella, e. coli, bse, dioxins, sludge and slurry. they all concerned our constituents and exercised our legislative minds. now, once again, there is a problem with hormones. we discussed and debated the food safety white paper and went on to pass legislation on food and feed and on the establishment of the european food safety authority. now, our media have been full of new food scandals. 50 000 dutch pigs condemned to be slaughtered because they were contaminated by illegal feedstuffs – illegal because of contamination by mpa hormones in feed additives. the cost to the netherlands alone is immense, tens of millions of euros. the problem probably came, as we heard, from waste water from an american-owned pharmaceutical company in ireland, sent by an irish waste disposal firm to a belgian reprocessing plant that is now bankrupt. that firm supplied glucose syrup or treacle to dutch feed manufacturers. all 4 000 pigs were then exported from the netherlands to belgium. the banned hormone has been found in pigfeed in germany. 300 german farms were banned from selling milk or animals. but pork was sold, was processed and has been eaten by humans and of course mpa in humans can cause infertility. some of the syrup, too, ended up with soft drink manufacturers. some of the feed ended up in denmark, spain, france and possibly luxembourg and britain. one of the messages the commissioner has highlighted is that we need coordination, not only between governments but between the directorates of the commission. i welcome what he said about talking to mrs wallström. commissioner, what is the point of our passing laws if they are not enforced? where were the checks and the monitoring? what, incidentally, are the commission's new proposals on controls? was this negligence or was it a criminal attempt to increase the weight of pigs by illegal means? how often is a blind eye turned to wrongdoing? a banned carcinogenic herbicide was found in grain fed to organic chickens in germany in june. yet exports of organic chicken or eggs from germany were not banned. i have faith in our new food safety measures. i have faith in our new authority and i wish it could be set up faster. but it will only be effective if we have proper enforcement throughout the european union. (applause from the right)
mr president, i am sure that the commissioner attends these events with a heavy heart, because he is responsible not just for the food chain and the feed chain but also the worst chain of all, the contamination chain. one of the problems we face in this house is that we often orate about how everything should be perfect without always ourselves being willing to seek the means to go with the ends: the means to allow us to have an effective fvo, which at the moment is overstretched and understaffed; the means to have a proper process of scrutiny whereby every member state, great or small, whether its population is a few hundred thousand or many millions, takes equal precautions and provides equal information. that has not happened in some of the cases here and i appreciate the difficulties that the commissioner faces as a result. in regard to the scandal about the presence of nitrofen in grains for organic chickens, we know from information provided between may and july that not all of the member states were informed with express speed about what had happened. our information is that in regard to contaminated pork – to pigs that had been fed with these appalling materials – four member states had purchased and no doubt their citizens had consumed some of the contaminated pork before the process of control was effectively operating. the controls are now better and, as a result of the standing committee on the food chain and animal health being set up in february and the evidence it collates, we can now say that we have a rapid-alert system that ought to work. that is the commissioner's responsibility, so we commend him on it. the question is whether the member states are providing sufficient information. can they be trusted to bring their own rogue operators under control? i do not know. i should like to hear from the commissioner whether he believes the resources are there. mr bowis said earlier that all the institutions have been dilatory and slow in setting up efsa. it is going to come into operation later than we had hoped. is that one of the reasons why we are having to wait longer to get these positive lists of feed materials and the general hygiene rules which follow from the reforms we so enthusiastically greeted last year? i hope that the commissioner can tell us that proper investigations are proceeding in all the member states as to why organisations like bioland could perpetrate the scandals they did.
madam president, i very much welcome this initiative. it was a very necessary initiative and i commend it. universities are the cornerstone of our societies, so encouraging universities, students and teachers to forge closer links and share experiences will play a crucial role in enriching our societies. it will also increase european competitiveness, because universities play an important role now in the business sector. many higher education establishments are already suffering a funding crisis and european union higher education legislation will not be brought closer without proper financial commitment. i urge the commission, the council and parliament to ensure this happens, because it is vital that this initiative is properly funded. however, i would have liked to see more emphasis on the teaching of modern foreign languages, since linguistic barriers are one of the main impediments to mobility. in my own country, the uk, the compulsory teaching of foreign languages is being cut back. providing an optional language is very important. i commend this report to the house and fully support it.
madam president, there is no doubt about the importance of universities and education. in fact, education itself is so important that prime minister blair has said in the past that he only has three policies: education, education and education. but the high profile of education in the political arena makes universities and other institutions especially vulnerable to external pressure. not for nothing do universities become one of the first targets of demagogues and dictators. the free thinkers and the independent spirits are soon removed. democracies also have a problem here because our educational establishments rely predominantly on the state for their funding and he who pays the piper seeks to call the tune. as a result we have seen increasing interference in our educational establishments. this is also the case with the european union. as more and more money destined for academia comes through the european institutions, the european piper is indeed now calling the european tune. as i travel around british universities speaking to students, i see a rash of ring of stars flags and eu literature. but more worryingly, under the jean monnet programme i see the orthodoxies of the european union now being taught in political science and in european history courses. such is the grip of eu money that dissent from the perceived wisdom is treated almost as heresy. unless the correct version of political history is submitted in their course work and in their examinations students now find themselves penalised in their exam marking. thus i view this report with some degree of dismay and trepidation. the european union has its own key policies and they are integration, integration and yet more integration. that of course is why the european union is so interested in universities and further education. i have no doubt that this particular report is well meant but the creation of a european learning area and the prospect of yet more taxpayers' money being filtered through the eu into universities is a recipe for even more political interference. the independence of our universities is far too important for them to be sacrificed on the altar of political integration.
- we now move to the votes. report (a5-0241/2002) by mr coelho, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the third report from the commission on citizenship of the union (com (2001) 506 - c5-0656/2001 - 2001/2279 (cos))
- before we move on to the next vote, i would like to welcome ms fan, chairman of the legislative council of hong kong, who has taken her seat in the official gallery. (applause) as you know, we are following with great interest the developments in the hong kong special administrative region. mrs. fan is here for a series of important meetings. we wish him a very pleasant stay. yi lü ping an [we wish you a good trip]
in writing. - the british conservatives feel that this is an inappropriate report which attempts to take the discussion far beyond what the representatives and citizens themselves want. we believe that it should be an expression of our citizenship of a member state, not of europe. of course, we are all 'europeans', but the majority of the population does not consider their current european citizenship to be superior to that of their own country. we want to make individuals more attached and interested in the communities of their own nations rather than creating, as the rapporteur seems to suggest, an artificial right. the british conservatives oppose the principles of the report for the reasons outlined above.
- that concludes the explanation of vote. (the sitting was suspended at 12.50 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
mr president, it is always sad to talk about human rights abuses because we in the eu take for granted the universal rights that we exercise day in, day out. the case of dr ibrahim is deeply worrying because it is part of a trend that we see increasing in egypt. yet egypt – as we have heard from mr posselt – is a friend and ally. therefore i urge the commissioner on his visit to egypt to raise at the highest level with president mubarak the case of dr ibrahim and his colleagues. he should be released immediately. there should be a fair appeal process. i equally urge him to raise the case of the 'cairo 52', who are also undergoing a retrial, and of the four british men held pending trial in cairo at this moment. we are friends of egypt. we must encourage dialogue. when dialogue fails, we must bring forward sanctions.
mr president, in every part of the world we see examples of violence and cruelty by individuals and sometimes appalling scenes of mob violence and lynch rule. these are horrors which every civilised person, government and judicial system condemns. some acts of savagery are doubly chilling because they are authorised by people supposedly appointed to administer justice. it is not just in nigeria, but today we are focusing on nigeria. the practices carried out there in the name of sharia law are beyond the pale of any society that calls itself civilised and humane. stoning for adultery is barbaric; flogging for sex before marriage or alcohol consumption and amputation for theft may be considered excessive. to give judicial approval to a stoning to death by a legal mob cannot be acceptable to the vast majority of nigerians who are decent and responsible, including their president, and it certainly cannot be acceptable to us. earlier this year, we saw international pressure helping to put a stop to plans to stone safiya husseini to death. now amina lawal faces the same threat of death by torture. safiya was married at 12 years old and amina at 14 years old. they lost their childhood and amina may now lose her life. the young couple ahmadu ibrahim and fatima usman face the same prospect, as does an older man accused of rape. this punishment is incompatible with the conventions and covenants signed by nigeria. tens of thousands of people have written from 110 countries to appeal for clemency in the amina case. i believe the federal government understands that and indeed the minister of justice has also condemned the verdict. the key is the governor of katsina state and it is important that the presidency and the commission and the president of our parliament add their pleas to those many of us have already sent to umaru musa yar'adua.
mr president, it is with both sadness and frustration that i find myself presenting yet another resolution on zimbabwe – the sixth within a year. the fact is that the situation there is getting worse and the european union's actions to date have clearly been ineffective. they are not being pursued with sufficient determination or vigour. the european union sends diplomatic missions to southern africa but they come back empty handed and leave behind no impression that action against zimbabwe is a high priority and a determining factor in the overall approach to southern africa. let us be clear: the issue is not the rights of white farmers, it is the rights of all of the people of zimbabwe. if you are not a card-carrying zanu-pf member then you are subject to harassment, discrimination, assault, selective starvation policies and murder. how serious does it have to get before effective action is taken? president mugabe has just returned to harare from johannesburg claiming support for his land policies. this is a travesty. to quote the opposition mdc, 'mugabe's land reform programme has resulted in massive environmental degradation, condemned hundreds of thousands to poverty and put six million people at risk of starvation'. that is the reality. president mugabe is a tyrant who has plundered the resources of his country for his own benefit and that of his cronies and who uses the apparatus of the state, including the police, to terrify and abuse his political opponents. imagine our horror, therefore, when we discovered that augustine chihuri, the zimbabwe police chief who is actually named on the european union's prescribed list as being banned from travelling to eu countries, was nevertheless in france last week, at an interpol meeting in lyon. you might rightly ask what a person like chihuri is doing as a vice-president of interpol in the first place, but that is a different question. the fact is that he should not have been in france and the council must now take vigorous and effective steps to close the loopholes and galvanise international moves against president mugabe before the tragedy of zimbabwe is again overshadowed by other international crises. let us have some determined action for the sake of all the people of zimbabwe.
mr president, of course this resolution speaks for itself. it is an appalling litany of crimes against humanity. president mugabe is bereft of principles, devoid of any sense of justice, his regime sinks to unimagined levels as each day passes. he has no respect for human rights, minority rights, international law or international opinion. he is a vile despot and we must cease all links with him and his regime. as mr van orden said, we must hit mr mugabe and his regime where it matters most, i.e. in the pocket. there must be an end to international trade and effective freezing of the bank accounts of mr mugabe and his entourage. further financial and targeted sanctions must be vigorously imposed. at the same time, we must aid and support those african states which take similar punitive actions against the mugabe regime. the great sadness in all of this is the effect it is having on the citizens of zimbabwe, whose only crime is to have mr mugabe as their president. let us target mr mugabe, not the citizens of zimbabwe, and let us ensure that our actions are effective and not merely international window-dressing.
- before we begin, i'd like to inform you that the president would like to apologize for his absence. he was detained in ireland for personal reasons. approval of the minutes of the previous meeting; deposit of documents; transmission by the council of texts of agreements; transfers of appropriations; petitions written statements (rule 51); follow-up to parliament's positions, opinions and resolutions; membership of parliament; membership of parliamentary committees and delegations; requests for consultation; i am not going to go into the details of the matter.
- the final draft agenda drawn up by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 19 september 2002, in accordance with rules 110 and 110a of parliament's rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed: wednesday: i have received a request from the confederal group of the european united left/nordic green left to advance the council and commission statements on the middle east.
- i take note of your remarks on the resolution adopted in april.
- if you provide this document to the relevant services, it will be sent to parliament's security services for examination.
mr president, i have passed to the sittings services a report from the commission about its investigation and disciplinary office. the report represents a staggering indictment of the commission's ability to handle its own affairs, let alone those of the people of europe. over the last five years there have been 40 actions taken against individuals found to be guilty of a total of 48 infringements. despite reported cases documented in this report of rape, fraud, paedophile pornography, misuse of funds, harassment, theft, forgery, striking and wounding, depraved behaviour, aggression, corruption and conflict of interest, only one individual has been dismissed in the last five years. the commission's own disciplinary process is clearly unable to take the appropriate action against employees who commit hideous and, in some cases, criminal offences. this parliament needs to know that those responsible for this failure have themselves been removed from their posts. what new immediate measures are being put in place to improve the process and what police action has resulted from any of these infringements over the last five years? i ask you to refer this matter to president prodi as a matter of urgency. (applause from the right)
- we have noted your remarks, received your document and will forward it to mr prodi.
- we will bring your remarks to the attention of the commission.
- a debate on the middle east is scheduled for wednesday.
mr president, on a point of order. as you know, rule 2 states that members of the european parliament shall exercise their mandate independently, they shall not be bound by any instructions and shall not receive a binding mandate. i have heard on good authority that there was a meeting of the pesca group of fisheries ministers in portugal on or around 15 september 2002, that is to say the fisheries ministers of spain, france, greece, ireland, italy and portugal. i have further heard that at that meeting there was some discussion of three draft european parliamentary reports, one by mr jové peres and two by mr varela. if this is the case then that seems to me to be a most scandalous attempt to violate the independence of members of this house in carrying out their functions as rapporteurs. i would ask you to draw it to the attention of the presidency of the council that such behaviour by sections of the council is unacceptable, and to ask the chairman of our own fisheries committee that he should ask his rapporteurs to ensure that they act with independence as rapporteurs for this house.
- it is rather flattering that the council takes our reports so seriously and wishes to discuss them in this way.
- i note your remarks but point out that no group has asked for a debate, although they are free to do so. we could look at this from another angle and say that this house is so impressed by the work of the committee on economic and monetary affairs that it has full confidence in it.
mr president, on a point of order, i disagree with my friend and colleague, mr goebbels. we need to distinguish more between what is important and what is less important. we need to establish what needs debate because we disagree and because we need to explore further the issues involved, and what can be dealt with under a simplified procedure because we all agree. the procedure mr goebbels refers to allows us to do that. it needs only one political group to request a debate for that debate to take place. frankly, if no group – not even mr goebbel's own group – has been persuaded that a debate is worth having, then clearly it can be left to the committee, which also meets in public. this will then enable plenary to spend more time on more important matters. that is surely something we should be doing.
- i hope so.
mr president, on a point of order, from the reply you gave me you have misunderstood the point i wanted to make. i totally agree with you that this house should always be delighted when the council as such pays attention to our reports. however, the point to which i was drawing attention is that a subset of council, the pesca group, is said to have held a meeting in which it discussed drafts of reports to this parliament which have not yet been seen by the committee; in other words, that they have been "cooking up" reports ahead of their being seen by the committee. if true, that would be a grave infringement of the rights and privileges of this house and a breach, in effect, of rule 2 of our rules of procedure. i wish to lodge a protest about that and suggest that it be taken up with the presidency of the council and with the chairman of our own committee on fisheries.
- you're right; i misunderstood your remarks.
- that agenda item is closed.
- the next item is the report (a5-0276/2002) by mrs gebhardt, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the initiative of the french republic with a view to adopting the council decision establishing a european judicial training network (13348/2000 - c5-0757/2000 - 2000/0829 (cns)).
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0257/2002) by mr evans, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs, on asylum: common procedure and internal security (com (2001) 743 - c5-0129/2002 - 2002/2053 (cos)).
rapporteur. – mr president, as you said, this report – on an 'open-coordination-method' common asylum policy and internal security – covers two methods. it is really two reports in one. it should have been two separate reports but owing to parliament's rules, and also to time restraints and organisational factors, it is a single report. the whole approach of the common asylum policy is integral to the work of our committee and we are very much committed to it. regarding the open coordination method, we stress that this must not be a substitute for parliament's involvement in the whole process of working towards a common asylum policy and indeed a common immigration policy: we are committed to the full communitarisation of these topics. it is very important that parliament has a full role in the legislative process in this area. we welcome the open coordination method. the sharing of statistics and everything else it involves must not be seen as a substitute for moving towards the full communitarisation of a common asylum policy with full involvement for parliament. we must also ensure that using the open coordination method does not reduce asylum policy to the lowest common denominator of member states' current policies. we want high standards. we want best practice to be followed. accordingly, the open coordination method must be used as a transition period towards a second stage where asylum is a full legislative agenda item. furthermore, best practice in the open coordination method should not be seen as a substitute for the geneva convention and the relevant protocol thereto. we must put pressure on all member state governments to integrate asylum policy, and indeed immigration considerations, into all policy areas as a horizontal policy objective. the second part of the communication is on internal security. this has clearly been moved up the agenda since the events of 11 september last year. we must ensure that member states' provisions already existing under the geneva convention exclude persons who have been involved in terrorist activities, crimes against humanity or other similar offences which are already clearly defined. we must make certain that these provisions are presented in such a way as to ensure that terrorists do not enter eu territory via the asylum procedure. there is no evidence at the moment that would-be terrorists are entering the european union or any member states and seeking asylum, but the report seeks to make absolutely clear that there are safeguards and procedures to cover that eventuality. it is crucial that the measures that are introduced to deal with the threat to internal security are proportionate, that they are effective and above all that they safeguard human rights. i welcome the commission's commitment to using only the geneva convention exclusion clauses as a basis for rejecting individuals' claims for asylum, but i urge the exclusion clauses to be used carefully. i reiterate that the eu must have a consistent approach and should not extradite individuals to countries where they may be at risk of incurring the death penalty. we need to be absolutely clear on the status and treatment of people who are excluded from international procedure, but who are non-removable from eu territory owing to any of the different reasons which may lead to this status. in general, with certain reservations that i have outlined, we welcome the commission's commitment in this report to ensuring that access to asylum procedure is guaranteed. i ask that the exclusion clauses should not be routinely considered for practical as well as humanitarian reasons. i have tabled some amendments to this report either to correct minor errors or owing to setbacks in committee, but these do not detract from the importance and significance of the report. i commend the work that commissioner vitorino has been doing in moving towards a common european policy on asylum. there is no way forward other than for all 15 member states to have a similar policy with guidelines that are not just similar but the same, and which are recognised and enforced by all member states.
mr president, we would like to congratulate the rapporteur for having brought together two sensitive issues which many of us would prefer not to see linked since the question of security often provides a questionable alibi, feeding the prejudices of those who prefer to restrict asylum and develop a policy of deterrence towards those needing to exercise their individual and fundamental rights. we are pleased that we can concur with the rapporteur on his statements on the need to uphold human rights and civil liberties. we believe that civil liberties are not secondary to security; we are told that a key value of the european union is the protection of freedom, justice and civil liberties, and we agree with the last speaker that we need to be vigilant on this. we also fully support the view that the governing principle must be that of international obligations, fairly and humanely applied. so for example, we can agree with paragraph 12, that immediate and general detention should be avoided. we also fully support conclusion 5 of the report, which stresses the need for an holistic approach towards asylum and immigration looking at this as a horizontal policy objective and considering all policy areas, particularly those with an external dimension, such as trade, development, environment and agriculture. we have long argued that we need to look at the effect of european union policies in acting as push factors, and after johannesburg we must be even more aware that what we are aiming for is sustainable development, reducing the causes of seeking asylum. we trust that will form part of the open coordination. we agree with the number of concerns raised about open coordination: in a number of other policy areas, it has almost become a democracy bypass, leaving out the european parliament and often also national parliaments. but we hope that, through the open coordination method, solutions to difficult issues, such as finding best practice for legal entry for asylum seekers and other immigrants, will be found.
commission. – mr president, i should like to make two brief remarks following this most interesting and stimulating debate. firstly, in reply to mrs boumediene-thiery, i would draw her attention to the fact that these two issues were not brought together by the commission. we addressed them in separate documents. we are discussing both of them today as a result of parliament's organisational arrangements. for once you cannot blame the commission. my second remark, in reply to mrs klamt and mr von boetticher, concerns the open coordination method. since amsterdam, it has been quite clear that the development of european asylum policy will take place in two stages ('generations'). the first generation will take the form of minimum common rules on a number of elements of asylum policy; the second generation, later on, will be based upon a common (maybe even 'single') european asylum system. in both generations it is undoubtedly quite clear that legislation will play a key role. you must recognise that, in spite of the fact that sometimes we do not agree on the solutions, the commission has put forward all the proposals for the first stage of legislation only one year after tampere. i freely acknowledge before the house, as i have always done, that finding a common level playing field on this legislation, even on minimum common rules, has been difficult in the council. the council is about to adopt a very famous rule based on one rule with 15 exceptions. if this was achieved in the field of chemistry it would probably merit a nobel prize, having one rule with 15 different exceptions, one for each of the 15 member states. we need to recognise that these minimum common rules are not sufficient. i therefore tried to put forward the idea of having a common european asylum policy by means of the open coordination method. the open coordination method does not go against legislation. however, its objective is to complement the insufficient outcome that i acknowledge will most probably be the concrete result of this first-generation legislation. i should like to draw your attention also to the fact that the open coordination method brings transparency into the system. this is the best way to respect the principle of subsidiarity. there cannot be a central managed asylum system in europe. that would go against the principle of subsidiarity. each member state should be entitled to decide and to take into consideration asylum demands, and to decide in which cases they grant asylum status on the basis of minimum common rules at european level. the commission considers that we need to exchange best practices, and to exchange information. that does not happen at present, and this means that the open coordination method has an added value in bringing transparency to the way member states manage the system. under our proposal, parliament will be joining this exercise. i should like to make it plain that i do not want to go against any kind of communitarisation. on the contrary, i am trying to make sure that we take the necessary and consolidated steps to achieve the treaty objective. i do not think the open coordination method is a cop-out. in the lisbon agenda you will see a crystal clear reference to the open coordination method. if you see the proposals that the commission has put forward on economic governance, you will see that our proposal is to use the open coordination method to determine legally-binding targets, making the open coordination method more effective and therefore achieving more concrete results. i respect your disagreement, but i do not think that i am wrong.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the joint debate on the following two reports: - a5-0309/2002 by mrs angelilli, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs, on the commission's green paper on compensation for victims of crime (com (2001) 536 - c5-0016/2002 - 2002/2022 (cos)) - and a5-0312/2002 by mr santini, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs, on the proposal for a council directive to improve access to justice in crossborder cases by establishing minimum common rules on legal aid and other financial aspects of civil proceedings (10856/2002 - c5-0234/2002 - 2002/0020 (cns)).
mr president, i wish to begin by congratulating mr santini, who i have been shadowing on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists. it is a very good report. however, we have done ourselves some damage. as has been referred to, this will not be viewed easily or lightly accepted by the council because we have wrongly broadened the scope. i agree absolutely with the principles within mr santini's report, but we have to be realistic on a consultation process on how to achieve those principles. this is particularly about cross-border disputes. if we make it include internal disputes, we create a great deal of problems not only for the community but also for those member states that will have to face the potentially huge legal bills that will follow. that is why i will recommend to the socialist group that we support the amendment by baroness ludford which reintroduces the notion that this refers specifically to cross-border disputes. i welcome the fact that the brussels 1 regulation will apply to these disputes on the mutual enforcement of civil law decisions. equally, i accept that it should not cover proceedings relating to tax, customs or administrative matters. however, i should introduce one correction. it may have been a linguistic matter, but mr santini said that citizens will be judged irrespective of their financial positions. this is not true because there is an upper limit set within the directive. i welcome that the victims of crime will be guaranteed legal aid in order to get compensation. we agree that legal aid should cover both pre-litigation advice and representation in court. we also back the proposal to include within the scheme mechanisms for resolving disputes outside the courts. i will finish as i began by congratulating mr santini but by expressing regret that, by broadening the scope and going far beyond that which we can achieve in the house, we are actually urging the council not to accept our recommendations.
mr president, i would like to refer to mrs angelilli's remarks at the beginning of the debate, when she spoke of this issue as being very complicated from a legal point of view. i have no legal training whatsoever but i have no doubt, as the commissioner mentioned in his comments on forging together the chemistry of 15 countries, that mutual cooperation across the legal systems and judicial processes of 15 countries is very difficult to achieve. from the point of view of the ordinary citizens of europe, however, i would suggest that the notion of the victim of a crime is a very simple one. whether while abroad on holiday, for business purposes or perhaps as a student, the victim of a burglary, a violent personal crime, or a terrorist attack takes that crime very personally and expects something to be done about it. we all suffer, indeed the whole idea of europe suffers, if nothing is done. victims become disenchanted and frustrated, and to them the whole idea of europe seems to have failed. we are, then, absolutely right to do all we can to press forward in the ways outlined in these two reports. we need to look for common rules and common understandings and agreements on legal aid so that, as far as possible, people can receive the sort of support that they would expect in their own country. the commissioner spoke about the european charter of fundamental rights. this is a step forward, but people expect, since this charter exists, that they are entitled to rights in other countries. we have established a common market for goods and capital and made it work as a kind of rich playground. so, just as the previous report called for common european standards on asylum, we are absolutely right to be calling for common european standards for the victims of crime and access to legal aid.
commission. – mr president, i wish to begin by saying, on behalf of the commission, that we very much welcome the joint text on the proposed regulation on animal by-products, agreed by the conciliation committee on 12 september. this proposal is the second major component in our defence barriers against bse and other serious animal diseases. the first component was the regulation on tses adopted last year. this proposal is very important – it is essential for the safe collection, transport, storage, handling, processing and disposal of the millions of tonnes of animal by-products produced in the union every year. the continued absence of a sound comprehensive regulatory framework to deal with these by-products would be a very dangerous thing indeed. i would like to express the commission’s sincere thanks to mrs paulsen, for her enormous efforts and tireless work, over nearly two years, in pursuing an agreement between the commission and the council on the proposed regulation. the position we have reached here today owes much to her personal commitment, tenacity and determination. i also thank, in particular, mrs caroline jackson, chairperson of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, and mr joseph daul, chairperson of the committee on agriculture and rural development, for their valuable input. the commission is greatly encouraged that all three institutions are in general agreement on four key principles. firstly, that only animal by-products derived from animals fit for human consumption should be used in feed, cosmetic and pharmaceutical products. secondly, that intra-species recycling – known as 'cannibalism' – should be banned. thirdly, that certain provisions should be tightened in order to improve control and traceability in the animal by-products sector. fourthly, that alternative disposal options should be approved to take into account scientific and technological developments. we are also pleased that the difficult issue of catering waste has finally been resolved. the solution permits a temporary relaxation of the ban on the use of catering waste in feed for some member states, under certain highly controlled conditions to be established by the standing committee on the food chain and animal health. the use of catering waste in feed constitutes a major threat of transmission of serious animal diseases such as foot-and-mouth disease and classical swine fever. it is certain that nobody would wish to see a repeat of the kind of outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease we recently saw in the uk, with its enormous losses to the farming and non-farming community. the commission will now focus on preparing implementing measures – including the approval of alternative disposal methods and a derogation on intra-species recycling for fish and fur animals – as well as a number of transitional measures covering such matters as catering waste and used cooking oil, to bridge the gap prior to the application of the regulation.
mr president, firstly i would like to thank mrs paulsen for the inclusive approach she has given all the other groups during first and second reading and secondly congratulate her on the way she represented parliament during conciliation, particularly when dealing with some of our friends in the german green group, a difficult task at the best of times as i am sure chancellor schroeder has found out and will continue to find out. the european union produces millions of tonnes of animal by-products and these are separated into three categories according to the risk to humans or animals. category one, which contains specified risk material, was implicated in the spread of bse. i am pleased that we also included in category one waste from airlines which may have come from countries that do not have the same standards as we do, although i am sure some people would say that some of the airline food would not be considered fit for human consumption anyway. there is category three, which is fit for human consumption, including catering waste, and category two, which is all the rest. the big issue at conciliation was that of catering waste and there we had two national problems. in the uk catering waste is banned. it was implicated in the start of the foot-and-mouth epidemic in the north-east of england and also in the inquiry into the classical swine fever outbreak in east anglia, which suggested that the cause might have been a discarded ham sandwich thrown into a field of outdoor pigs. but historically in the uk, we carried out our processing of catering waste on farms – so-called pigswill. this was very hard to control and it is not surprising that there were breakdowns in the way that was done. in some ways i wish that we had gone down the same route as the germans and the austrians which was not to process this material on farm, but to put in state-of-the-art multi-million pound installations which were run with typical german efficiency. some of those are brand new and it would be unfair to shut them down at very short notice, particularly when one considers the alternatives as to where this waste would have to go. maybe it would go into landfill, as much of the catering waste in the uk does, and that would be subject to rodents or seagulls taking part away and distributing it around the countryside. a second possible way of getting rid of it would be using incineration, which is both costly and damaging to the environment. it is very good that we negotiated this transitional period to 1 november 2006. i said that in the uk we do not have pigswill. we do, however, recycle waste oil produced from such establishments as fish and chip shops, that monument to the culinary art, but also from other catering establishments and private homes that produce waste cooking oil. in the uk this was a thriving cottage industry. every week a 25 litre drum was taken away and the chef was given gbp 5, part of the black economy. this was taken away to be processed into animal feed. however, when doubts were expressed about the continued use of this, the collectors started to charge a fee and at that point the chefs made alternative arrangements. that meant it went down the drain. that has resulted in blocked sewers and other environmental problems as congealed fats and oils interfere with the infrastructure below our streets taking away the waste water. it is important that the uk gets an extension to give it time to review the situation, to evaluate the risks of the continued use of cooking oil, although personally i think they are insignificant, and to put in place systems for alternative uses such as biodiesel.
mr president, the first task of anyone who has served on the conciliation committee must be to congratulate mrs paulsen for her drive and tenacity in surviving a complex conciliation which was at times almost overturned by some very unorthodox manoeuvres. that would not have been right for parliament, and i am glad that the various parties to this agreement converged in this way. mrs paulsen had to keep her nerve because events elsewhere, including elections, were bringing special pressures to bear on the way in which these events were being looked at. yet she was vindicated the whole time by the saga of continuing food contamination scandals which went on in a number of member states right through 2002 and in the way in which this matter has worked out. we know all about full traceability for specified risk materials in the united kingdom because we were forced in the wake of bse to introduce, almost at gun-point, something which is now going to be uniform across the community. this is all to the good. i believe that the number of by-products that have found their way into the food chain this year show us that perhaps even now, and later when this regulation is fully enforced, there will still need to be vigilance to ensure that above all else the principle of separation is rigorously upheld. i turn to the questions mentioned already by mr goodwill regarding the problem some member states have experienced. i am glad that we have found a solution which leaves a temporary period of transition, rather than shrugging aside the need to bring this matter to a conclusion. i make no comment on the situation as regards the austrian and german industries and confine myself to the united kingdom. in the united kingdom we had certain specific problems: perhaps the commissioner can make a note of them, because in the final statement we will need to see how these are addressed in connection with the transition. the first question, familiar to mr goodwill, is of small incinerators which have been used as an extremely sensible way of destroying fallen stock on site with the minimum period of contamination risk. we need to be sure, during the transition period for inspection, that the reasons why these have been used, and used effectively, are fully understood by the commission and that they are not simply arbitrarily removed from the scene. the second area is the question of cooking oil. the united kingdom is now prepared to accept, rightly, that the transition period should be two years instead of four years and that in that time, given that this whole directive is only going to take effect something like eight or nine months from now, there will have been an adequate period for the industry concerned to adjust its practices – and probably its profits – to other ways of disposing of this, particularly in the field of biofuels. lastly, i am glad the united kingdom withdrew its objections relating to the application for a transition period for the land application of blood from slaughterhouses. this is a pretty repulsive habit. we could not have justified it and am glad that the united kingdom withdrew its objections. in this matter, too, the principle of cleanliness and separation should be paramount. mrs paulsen has showed us the way and it is up to us to follow.
- the next item is the report (a4-0176/2008) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters concerning the provisional application of the protocol establishing the fishing rights and financial compensation provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the government of the republic of guinea-bissau on fishing off the coast of guinea-bissau for the period 1 january to 31 december 2002 (com (2002) 0402 - c4-0176/2002 - c4-0176/2002 - 2002/0193 (cns))
chairman of the committee on budgets. – mr president, a letter was sent from commissioner patten to the president of parliament yesterday asking parliament to adopt, as quickly as possible, supplementary and amending budget no 4 in order to allow the budgetisation of the eur 70 million for afghanistan. the additional funding is consistent with the pledge made by the commission in tokyo last january. at the trialogue which was held yesterday evening between 9 p.m. and 10.30 p.m., an agreement was reached between the representatives of parliament and the council that supplementary and amending budget no 4 should be adopted as quickly as possible, as already approved by the council. on the basis of the letter from commissioner patten, could i ask you to consider the vote on the sab 4 as an urgency, so that we can adopt it during this part-session? if that is agreed to, then we will be calling a meeting of the committee on budgets at 10.30 a.m. this morning. i should therefore like to inform those of my colleagues who do not already know, that there will be a meeting of the committee on budgets at 10.30 a.m. today in place of the coordinators' meeting that was planned.
- as soon as your committee submits the report, it can be put on the agenda. since no problems arise, we will deal with it this week. documents received: see minutes.
- the next item is the report (a5-0289/2002) by mr sjöstedt, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on transboundary movements of genetically modified organisms (com (2002) 85 - c5-0079/2002 - 2002/0046 (cod)).
mr president, i much regret that the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy did not deliver an opinion on this subject. our coordinators were led to believe that there would be insufficient time to prepare an opinion before the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy finalised its report. in fact, this process took quite a lot longer than originally planned and there would have been sufficient time for the committee on industry to have given an opinion. an opinion from that committee ought to have been regarded as essential – in fact it is arguable that the industry committee should have been the committee responsible for this report. this proposal will have a substantial impact on the european union's biotechnology industry, on the eu's research programme and, in particular, on the priorities of the sixth framework programme for research. it also impacts on our trade in gmos and in genetically modified research material with both developed and less-developed countries. the commission proposal adds undesirable restrictive requirements beyond the internationally agreed cartagena protocol on biosafety, but the environment committee's suggested amendments go drastically further. it is essential that in our vote today we radically change the direction of this report. i am only sorry that, coming late to this matter as i did, there was insufficient time to introduce all the changes and separate votes i would have liked. why is it such a problem? these additional restrictions and bureaucratic requirements will only discourage investment in life science research in europe, and further encourage the investment in research to transfer to other areas with more favourable legislation outside europe. our scientists will go the same way as the research investment. have the commissioner and the rapporteur any concept of the damage this is likely to do? did they give any consideration to the ambition expressed at lisbon for europe to be the most dynamic and competitive knowledge-based economy in the world? this proposal does not restrict imports into the eu of gmos for contained research, but exports of public and private gm research material to third countries will be subject to yet further and disproportionate regulation. this proposal runs diametrically contrary to the eu's life science and biotechnology action plan. was there any coordination or consultation with the commissioner for research and the council of ministers for research? it is quite appropriate that the commission should propose, and parliament and the council approve, the requirements of the cartagena protocol on biosafety, but we should go no further. if we do, we will jeopardise our life science base for the future, our scientific community, the whole lisbon strategy and europe's future as a dynamic knowledge-based economic power in the world. i call on parliament to vote overwhelmingly against mr sjöstedt's report in all its critical aspects and, in particular, to support amendments 50 and 51, which will at least mitigate the extent of the damage this proposal and report are likely to cause.
mr president, i am pleased to speak on this report on the transboundary movement of gmos in which the committee on the environment has adopted a more stringent and more comprehensive position than that proposed by the commission, following the lead given by the rapporteur. i would like to add to what colleagues have said in thanking him for his work. i also welcome the fact that the committee on the environment expanded the regulation to cover food and feed which have been produced from or with the aid of gmos, as well as gmos intended for contained use. the report shows that whilst the cartagena protocol on biosafety is a good basic framework for regulating the transboundary movement of gmos, this is a minimum, a base line from which parties can and should be proactive in aiming for ever higher standards of control to meet the demands of the consumer. this includes, as many colleagues have already mentioned, the right of freedom of choice. we are only too aware of the recent examples of food aid to developing countries being cynically used to force gm food on people, to promote gm food and to force countries that have declared themselves gm-free to accept gm grain. this includes countries such as zambia, mozambique and zimbabwe which have all taken a stand against the untested and unproven nature of gmos and it is totally unacceptable that these are being forced upon them by countries such as the united states. the european union, in cases such as this, buys local non-gm food, adhering to the principles and the rules of the recipient countries in a manner in keeping with the ethos of the cartagena protocol. on the other hand, in the past two years bolivia, colombia, guatemala, nicaragua and ecuador have all been forced to accept gm food aid even though this was contrary to their national regulations. i welcome the committee's report which clearly allows for countries to take more proactive steps to ensure international biosafety. it is an important step forward in the whole gm debate and the report has my full support.
the commission. mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to thank you for your interesting and constructive contributions to this debate. i would like to begin with a general comment. the commission is and will remain very active in biotechnology. as you know, we have presented a communication on how we should use biotechnology. we are actively working on our internal community legislation in this area, including the revision of directive 2001/18/ec on traceability and labelling, and we are also working on the issue of environmental liability. it is all about finding that delicate and difficult balance between taking advantage of the benefits of a new technology, a new technology and new knowledge in this area and preserving biodiversity and making sure that we can defend human health, which is the most important thing. i think that this proposal is in line with community law and that we are still ambitious. i myself was involved in the negotiations where the eu was the driving force to ensure the introduction of an international regulatory framework. i mean, we're achieving that balance here, too. it is also right, as sjöstedt points out, that negotiations and work in a number of areas will continue to clarify a number of other important issues. if i may now finally comment on some of the amendments to clarify the commission's position, i would like to begin by commenting on amendments nos 30 and 57. they are opposed to the proposal on traceability and labelling by extending it to food and feed produced with gmos. they cannot therefore be accepted. it is important that different legislative acts on biotechnology are consistent. amendments nos 5 and 47 deal with the important issue of capacity building in developing countries but do not contain any mechanisms for implementation. the commission considers that this is an important issue but that it could be better addressed in a more appropriate forum, such as the european development fund. amendments nos 7 and 45 deal with the issue of environmental responsibility and the commission considers that this proposal is not the right instrument to deal with this problem, which is more suited to specific international negotiations. this issue will be further addressed in international negotiations. amendment no 22 proposes that exports of gmos for intentional release into the environment be restricted to organisms already authorised within the eu. in its current form, the amendment could create serious obstacles to research outside europe, including field trials on gmos not grown in our latitudes. the commission cannot therefore accept this amendment in its present form. amendment no 29 deals with more fundamental problems. firstly, procedures are being established which do not fully correspond to article 11 of the biosafety protocol and, worse, contradict article 12 of regulation (ec) no 178/2002 laying down the general principles and requirements of food law. for this reason, the commission cannot accept the amendment. the obligation for the exporter to notify further movements of gmos already authorised in the country of destination, as proposed in the last sentence of amendment no 60, would not be compatible with community legislation on intentional release or the biosafety protocol itself. this part of the amendment cannot therefore be accepted. the point is not to create red tape that is not practicable. the commission can accept amendments nos 50 and 51. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to reiterate that the commission shares most of the priorities and views of the european parliament on the problem areas. at the same time, we must ensure that this protocol is practical if we want the protocol on biosafety to be put into practice. international discussions on the protocol on biosafety are still ongoing. a workable proposal will not only help to continue the negotiations in a constructive atmosphere, but will also demonstrate that good environmental and human health protection can be combined with trade. the other issues raised in this debate, such as the moratorium and un food aid, we must return to because they require both time and good preparation. i hope that they will lead to a constructive exchange of views in due course, but this is not the place to discuss all these different aspects. a summary of the commission's position on the amendments shall be submitted in writing to the president. see annex position of the commission
- this debate is over. the vote will take place at 12 noon.
- the next item is the motion for a resolution (b5-0490/2002) by mrs roth-behrendt, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the ban on the marketing of cosmetics tested on animals.
mr president, commissioner wallström always brings a light and happy touch to our proceedings and we are grateful for that. the severity of some of the remarks you will hear from the floor today do not reflect on her, but on the fact that she is caught in one institution which is now on a collision course with another. the rapporteur said that those listening to us in the gallery today may be curious as to what the word 'comitology' means. some of us are too. our visitors should not go away with the feeling that comitology could be effectively translated as a lateral means whereby the commission can frustrate the will of the parliament. we are an elected institution. we have certain powers. they have been extended. they are still not all that considerable, but we know where the boundaries are. on this issue i must say to the commissioner – and i hope she will take this back to mr liikanen – that we in this house have had a debate which has continued through a number of parliaments, through pretty much the entire parliamentary lifetime of everyone sitting in this chamber now, from 1993 onwards. in 1997 the commission purported to give itself a further power of delay and that was extended, although challenged, because all of us here – and everyone who serves as i do on the conciliation committee – agree with the rapporteur in acknowledging the difficulties which arise where there are not yet viable alternatives to some forms of animal testing. that is perfectly taken into account in the deliberations we have had, which estimate that it may take another decade to reach the point and the conclusion that we all want. but what happens in the meantime? what happens if this conciliation fails? we are not talking then of something which is only temporary, only due to last for the duration of the present conciliation. we are talking of something quite different. i would like to read to the commissioner the fifth paragraph of the vice-chairman's letter, written on behalf of our committee, to commissioner liikanen. he says that the commission exercised its powers – which are disputed anyway – in 1997. when the implementation date for the marketing of animal-tested cosmetics was postponed to 30 june 2002 by directive 2000/41, this postponement was to be – to quote the words of recital 10 – for the 'last time'. now here we are again – and it is not the last time, it is the penultimate time. or is it just one in a whole series of delays and frustrations? if you have an elected parliament you have to listen to what it says, otherwise these people in the gallery are wasting their time and we are wasting our time in coming here. commissioner, you must go back and say to mr liikanen that he should think again.
commission. – mr president, i wish to begin by thanking mr casaca for his report, although the commission does not agree with all aspects of it. i should underline that the implementation by the member states of regulation 4045/89 is generally satisfactory. the commission's proposal therefore only contains technical amendments aimed at adjusting reference amounts for inflation, as was the case with the last amendment in 1994, simplifying member states' reporting requirements and including the possibility of reducing the number of scrutinies in certain duly motivated cases. these would be cases in which control services from more than one member state joined forces in scrutinising international-scale companies receiving eaggf aid. as i have said, the implementation by the member states of the obligations arising from this control regulation is satisfactory, but some technical amendments are called for. let me stress one important factor: the regulation is a control regulation and not an anti-fraud regulation. the commission therefore shares the opinion of parliament's committee on legal affairs and the internal market that article 37 and not article 280 is the most appropriate legal base.
mr president, first of all i welcome the report. i think it is very timely, and it will certainly be welcomed by everyone, because most people would welcome a reduction in inspection. however, that does not mean in any way actively encouraging lesser controls. i happen to believe that if you are going to have real control of the finances of the european union, it can only be best carried out at member state level, because the member states also have the ability to follow such controls through. i would agree totally with the previous speaker, that the vast majority of people in the agricultural industry, be they in the manufacturing side, the factory side or indeed at the farm level, are not involved in fraud. there will, however, always be a small number of people in any country who are prepared to abuse a system. i think that in europe we must be more specialised in what we try to do, we must be clearer and more specific in our targeting of inspections as regards the areas we inspect, because in many member states there is no doubt that some european money is not spent very wisely, and could be much better spent. i welcome the fact that the threshold is to be increased. i think it is timely and i return to my point – i still believe that the majority of contacts should be left to the member states and that we in europe should be more specific and more targeted in the areas that we want to see inspected. no one, i repeat, wants to encourage fraud; certainly we in this parliament would not in any way want to encourage fraudulent acts and where they are found they must be dealt with very severely. so, we must have good control but it must be targeted, it must be specific, it must be to the point, and it must be in areas where abuse has been found. i certainly believe we can improve the situation, i believe this can be achieved, and i believe it can be done by targeting particular areas which we consider to be the most vulnerable.
commission. – mr president, i should like to thank the members of parliament for their interesting speeches – i have learned a lot of new things, including about the equal treatment of the belgian queen, and olive growing. mr casaca was right to express concerns about irregularities. i would like to point out that regulation 4045/89 scrutiny results in a high number of irregularities being reported to olaf, and also in the identification of and follow-up to cases, to which mr casaca referred. this is very important. i should like to make clear the commission position on some of the amendments and i will also try to answer mr casaca's four questions. the first one concerns the legal basis. i have three points to make. firstly, regulation 4045/89 is a control regulation and not an anti-fraud regulation. therefore, article 37 is the most appropriate legal basis. secondly, these are technical amendments and there is no justification for making substantive changes at this point. thirdly, the opinion of mr casaca's own committee – the committee on legal affairs and the internal market – based on the advice of parliament's legal service, was that article 37 was the most appropriate legal basis. it is very important for all those involved that a distinction is made between control and anti-fraud. that is why the commission rejects this amendment on the legal basis. amendments 2, 3 and 4 expand on or slightly strengthen the existing provisions and are acceptable to the commission. concerning amendment 5, i have to stress that, as member states are already required to send the commission a list of beneficiaries, this part of the amendment is unnecessary. the methods used by the member states to calculate the minimum number of scrutinies have been checked by commission services and found to be satisfactory. that is why the commission rejects this amendment. we can accept amendment 6, even though it seems to be superfluous. amendment 7 exceeds the nature of a technical amendment, would mark a major change in the relations between member states and could also have major legal effects. the commission is not opposed to the amendment in itself but, in view of the legal and political issues, it is a question that needs to be taken up at horizontal level, and that is why the commission rejects it. on amendments 8 and 9, the committee on budgetary control wants commission staff to carry out a certain number of controls each year, one in each member state, plus one multinational control. in allocating its control efforts, the commission makes use of risk analysis. this approach has been demanded and supported by the european court of auditors and parliament. these amendments 8 and 9 would drastically limit the effectiveness of any risk analysis because of the amount of work that would have to be done every year. dg agriculture's audit services are responsible for the control of many measures, and to oblige them to carry out all the controls required by these amendments – whether they are high risk or not – is not an acceptable approach. furthermore, some member states have one control service, others have several, and difficulties may be identified in some but not in others. however, amendment 8 requires one control per member state per year whatever the circumstances: this does not take account of the risks identified and will mean scarce resources also being used on low-risk controls. if parliament insists on diverting from this professional audit approach, then it would also effectively be requiring the commission to commit additional budgetary means to recruit the necessary staff. finally, the amendment by mr cunha aimed at publishing the list of beneficiaries, to which mr casaca referred. the commission promotes openness and transparency but does not think that this is a wise proposal. the programme may be decided up to 12 months before the beginning of some scrutinies, and giving a beneficiary 12 months' notice of a control cannot be good control practice. in any event, regulation 4045/89 forbids the use of nominative data in this way. i understand that there is also a volume question that has to do with the practicality of giving out some of the information in a meaningful way. that is why this amendment is not acceptable to the commission. with regard to the specific case concerning butter, i cannot supply all the details on that. however, i would ask you to send the commission a written question on this case. we could then update you on what actions have been taken. we will have to come back to the other more general political questions, because i would like to restrict my comments to the proposal before us.
mr president, since we are all having a go at the common agricultural policy, i too would like to state a few facts in relation to it. in the uk this weekend there was a huge rally – liberty and livelihood – where thousands of people gathered in london to protest at various problems relating to the countryside. what this rally did not put across, however, was the way that the countryside is massively subsidised. agriculture in particular is very heavily subsidised compared to every other industry in the european union. when we see 40% of the eu budget going to 5% of the eu population then the policy is clearly in need of radical reform. it seems strange to me, however, that within this reform process two areas are not being touched upon. these are the scandal of the eu sugar market, where extortionate prices throughout the eu enable people to take advantage of what i believe to be a very corrupt regime, and also the scandal of the tobacco industry, the existence of which people are bound to feel is an absolute contradiction at a time when the european union is also trying to promote health initiatives. these are key areas. but the most important issue here today is transparency. why is it that, while i can go to a website and find out where every single euro in relation to regional policy and structural funds is paid out in my area, i cannot do the same in relation to the common agricultural policy? that possibility does not exist and it is a possibility i want to see created. that is the relationship the taxpayers of europe need to have with the recipients of this funding: in that way perhaps we will be able to see how much prince charles, the queen and the rest of the royal family receive in relation to subsidies granted under the common agricultural policy. we need to crack this open. it is crucial that we get the support of the people who call repeatedly in this house for transparency. that is what we are asking for. the commission needs to cooperate much more closely with member states across the whole of the european union to ensure that this is the case. (applause)
- we now move to the vote. president. - the next item is the report (doc. report (a5-0277/2002) by mrs theato, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1258/1999 on the financing of the common agricultural policy (com (2002) 293 - c5-0358/2002 - 2002/0125 (cns))
- mr mulder, i'm going to give you the floor on an exceptional basis because i understand you've been doing this work on behalf of the chairman of the committee.
rapporteur. – mr president, this report is concerned with n1 vehicles which is commission jargon for vans. this is of interest to that most notorious of british drivers – white van man! white van man, as we know in the uk, is a person who despite being in a ford transit van thinks he is michael schumacher. i know that this is a uniquely british thing, as here on the continent – and particularly in italy – every driver thinks he is michael schumacher. this report is largely technical and concerns how we test the co2 produced from these vehicles. i have managed to secure exemptions for small manufacturers of specialist vehicles, in particular ambulances, and have also introduced the concept of families of vehicles in order to group together the thousands of vehicles produced in different derivatives. n1 vehicles are important to all of us because you are likely to make your last-but-one journey in an n1 vehicle i.e. an ambulance. but you will also be pleased to know i have secured an exemption for the vehicle you will make your last journey in, because hearses are also to be exempted from this directive. (laughter)
- it is a great pleasure for me, as a scot, to welcome to the european parliament sir david steel, the speaker of the scottish parliament, who has just taken his seat in the gallery reserved for distinguished visitors. (applause) sir david will be attending a series of meetings in parliament and observing our procedures. you are more than welcome in this house, sir david, and we would like to wish you a pleasant and constructive stay.
rapporteur. – mr president, i cannot disguise my disappointment that the report has just been rejected. i would say to those who voted against it and to the members of the ppe-de group that i hope they realise they have just voted against greater cooperation in matters of asylum in the european union; they have voted against sharing best practice in measures as we move towards a common asylum policy; they have voted against looking at good ideas and sharing those ideas ... (applause from the left)they have voted against measures to make certain that we are absolutely clear that people do not abuse the asylum system for terrorist purposes. those are the things we were looking at and it has been rejected by members of the ppe-de group. that is a disappointment for this house. (the president interrupted the speaker)(applause from the left)
- i don't want to start a debate. mr ribeiro, may i ask what your procedural question is, and perhaps you could also tell us under what article you are asking it?
in writing. - while the uk conservative delegation is determined to play its full role in the fight against terrorism and fully support increased cooperation between the police and other law enforcement organisations in the various member states, we cannot support an extension of eurojust. the united kingdom should not become a member of eurojust and should stand firm against terrorism on its own. the delegation supports the initiatives proposed in the recent kirkhope report on the establishment of joint investigation teams in which police forces share intelligence in the fight against serious crime. this initiative has yet to be implemented in the member states. eurojust is not the way forward and it is useless if cooperation is improved as a result of the kirkhope report's proposals. for all the reasons mentioned above, the british conservative delegation abstained from voting on this report.
in writing. - the uk conservative delegation sees no reason to set up a pan-european judicial training. this is a matter for the member states and the current system of judicial training is unique and specific to each state. it has to stay that way. there are also implications for the budget of the european union, they are unacceptable and we will oppose them separately in the budgetary process. the british conservatives cannot support the measures set out in this report.
- i'm afraid mrs. wallström is paying more attention to baron crespo than to you, mr. fatuzzo.
- explanations of vote are closed. (the sitting was suspended at 12.50 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
mr president, might i draw attention to item 12 of the minutes, dealing with one-minute speeches on matters of political importance. my name appears twice in that list, but members present will recall that i specifically made a point of order, concerning rule 2 of our rules of procedure. i therefore think that this should have been recorded as a point of order, while the point that i was making should be recorded in the minutes.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on budgets. – mr president, we have never done anything like this before and i welcome the opportunity to open this debate. in normal, run-of-the-mill circumstances when we have the budget debate, we have already voted on first readings in committee, we come to the chamber and most of us make a three-minute speech if we are lucky or, if not, a one and a half minute speech. what is more, they are statements and nothing is really gained because the work has already been done. what we are trying to gain from this session is a real dialogue, mainly with the commission, but also with the council, to seek guidance on how we should vote next week and to ask questions concerning events since the preliminary draft budget (pdb) was first presented. since the pdb several things have happened, including the council's vote on its draft budget which is what we vote upon. our committees have been working with the rapporteurs to ensure that we can bring forward sensible amendments. as always, the amendments in front of us always exceed the amount of money that is available. it is the job of both our rapporteurs to assess those amendments. no doubt during the debate you will be asked questions concerning what you think of some of those amendments. we also have the situation of a more precise legislative programme since the pdb and we need to assess the changes. we have had external events such as the floods and we want to know how these will affect next year's budget. from our own perspective there are areas where we are unclear on how things will be funded. for instance, we still have no agreement with the council or the commission on how the eur 27 million in category 2 for the fisheries reconstruction programme will be found. maybe someone will ask about that and if there are any ideas we will be grateful to hear them. a prime objective of the development committee is to ensure that the global health fund has a significant amount of money. one of the reasons for this is that if we do not put in significant amounts the european union may not have a seat at the table – a seat on the board. is that true? what amounts do we need? i would hope that this issue will also be raised with the commission so we can have guidance on it. with those few opening remarks, let me thank not only the commission in general but also the individual commissioners who are going to contribute to this debate. i would also like to thank the president-in-office for being here. i hope the debate will be useful, fruitful and influence our votes next week in committee, because if it does not we will all have wasted four hours of our time.
the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as president of the council, i am pleased to be able to attend this debate on the 2003 budget of the european parliament, which is being held with the participation of representatives of the commission. i am convinced that today's debate will give parliament and the commission the opportunity to address many important issues relating to the 2003 budget. i have the pleasure today of meeting mr terence wynn and the two rapporteurs for the 2003 budget, göran färm and per stenmarck. i would like to begin by personally thanking you for the constructive and purposeful dialogue on next year's budget which parliament and the council have had so far. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank the commissioner for budgets, mr michaele schreyer, and the other commissioners for the very good cooperation they have shown. there is no doubt that the eu budget for 2003 is a major challenge. the union will have to take on several new tasks next year. let me mention just two: the eu institutions must prepare for enlargement and the eu must take responsibility for the un police force in bosnia-herzegovina. both the council and parliament and the commission agree that these are political priorities which the union must address. the budgetary procedure has thus been characterized up to now by a desire to find practical solutions and compromises. i am convinced that this good cooperation can continue in the autumn and i will do everything in my power to contribute to it. i would like to conclude by wishing the members of the european parliament and the commissioners a good debate.
the commission. - mr president, mr president-in-office, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the 2003 budget is likely to be the last budget for a union of 15 member states. we are more or less on the eve of enlargement. the 2003 budget will therefore present further challenges not only for the candidate countries but for all the european institutions which need to prepare. this will be a priority in 2003. but of course we have other priorities. i agree with everyone that stability and security must be the main focus of european policy. this is reflected in the 2003 budget: in the budget of my colleague mr vitorino for internal and judicial policy measures, and in the budget for external policy measures - in a variety of ways. the house has made several requests concerning the security of the foreign office, but of course also regarding all aid to afghanistan. the aid, the increased funds for the mediterranean and, of course, the pre-accession aid are, in the final analysis, expenditure to strengthen political stability in europe. the commission has set sustainable development as its third priority. this also concerns many individual budgets and programmes - the energy programme, the research programme, the programme of my colleague mr poul nielsen, or, for example, the rural development funds under mr fischler's responsibility and the large structural funds under my colleague mr barnier's responsibility. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the 2001 budget books were closed with a surplus of eur 15 billion. the budget has been before the european parliament since 1 may. this is a huge surplus, and it is not a fictitious surplus as in some of the recent accounting scandals of private companies, but it is a real surplus. the finance ministers have been very happy to record this real surplus, whereas here in the european parliament this is viewed rather critically. we must indeed achieve better implementation of many programmes in 2003. the member states are also called upon to do so. this requires good cooperation. the commission shall inform parliament and the council each week of the progress of the accounts. this is an openness which no government in the member states has shown to parliament. and this is, of course, important budgetary information to decide on the best budgetary approach for the coming financial year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have to face new challenges, for example in the case of major, severe disasters, to provide solidarity aid. a new instrument has been created here. i am very grateful for the speed with which agreement was reached to create such a new instrument. it is really an expression of the fact that europe is a community of solidarity. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. we should not forget this in today's debate, which will certainly bring new wishes and proposals. we should also take into account the question of subsidiarity, and i have to say that the commission cannot do magic, but it needs the appropriate staff to implement policy objectives, including, of course, the implementation of spending programmes. i hope that with the support of parliament this question of staff expenditure for 2003 can also be resolved. i would like to thank mr färm and mr stenmarck for the words they have just spoken and for the motions which have already been tabled. the development shows that much is expected of europe, much is expected of european politics, and we should live up to these expectations. i think this is going to be an exciting debate today, a totally innovative debate, which again shows that the european institutions are very quick to innovate. (applause from the centre)
my group welcomes this new procedure. it is rather an imaginative way of reshaping our political debate on the priorities for the budget for 2003. my particular role in introducing it today is to look at our strategy as a group, one which we have accumulated over the past couple of years. on this basis we have six particular points which we have put down as amendments which i wish to review briefly. the first refers to how we handle outstanding budget commitments, which now amount to something around eur 110 billion. in a joint declaration which we signed with the council on 14 december 2000 we wanted to see these commitments reduced to normal levels by, if i remember correctly, december 2003. therefore, the first of our amendments aims at getting clarification from the commission as to exactly what its intentions are in trying to fulfil this commitment, how it is going to be done and how quickly it will be achieved. secondly, in terms of commission reform, which was also included in this joint declaration back in december 2000, we wanted to have a range of knowledge about how to achieve the reform. some of us are in doubt about how far this reform has gone, how the rest of it is going to be achieved and when it will be implemented. that is the reason we have put the five hundred posts in reserve, which we wish to see released in stages as and when we receive information about the completion and the effectiveness of the reform. thirdly, in relation to this there is the specific case concerning the chief accountant, where we have put a small amount of commission travel expenses in reserve. we want to get to the bottom of the situation. we are seeking information and not the resignation of the commission as some have rumoured. therefore, we want mrs andreasen to come and tell us exactly what her allegations are. we also want to know exactly what the commission's response to those allegations is. fourthly, we wish to deal with the council in terms of foreign policy and security. this is because we have had amounts put in the budget for 2003, but before approving them we want to enhance the position of the other institutions – parliament as well as the commission – in knowing how policies will be implemented. we have an instinct that we do not like to see the council spending large sums of money in managing foreign policy without proper accountability. fifthly, we have consistently said as a parliament that we do not want to see expenditure on afghanistan made to the detriment of other spending priorities in category 4. we are therefore suggesting that the flexibility instrument could be used for this purpose as well as perhaps dealing with that commitment made in the 2002 budget to deal with the eur 27 million on fleet restructuring. lastly, we have taken a slight departure from the norm and are recommending that the 220 council posts are not approved until we have received a satisfactory explanation on a number of points which are listed in our amendment. these include the implementation of the early retirement scheme. we also need explanation, more particularly, on foreign policy so that we know what the projections are and how the council thinks expenditure might be implemented over the next five years. i conclude by saying that this has nothing to do with revolution or our socialist leader, who says that these are undercover censure motions. this is about accountability and the proper functioning of democracy, where we as a parliament are taking our responsibility in the budgetary process, using the reserve on a judicious basis to get the information that we need to be able to carry out our job effectively.
mr president, for us the problem of implementation should be a shared problem, and i personally cannot accept what commissioner barnier has said, when he simply washes his hands of the problems of four or five member states. the problem is a shared one, the solution is a shared one. the fact that we have eur 100 billion of outstanding commitments should be a problem for all the community's institutions. we cannot accept the premise that it is the sole responsibility of those member states. we certainly want to see action by all the institutions, including the commission, and this parliament in particular, as a matter of urgency. turning to transport, we want to see action quickly here too. in particular, we want to see a reinstatement of the cuts of eur 1 million proposed by the commission in overland transport safety. it is absurd to propose to cut accidents on the roads by 50% in 8 years and yet cut the budget in that key area. thirdly, we want to see a reinstatement of the 20% reduction proposed by the commission in sustainable mobility. again we talk a lot about the environment, but the very programmes that will help protect and preserve it will be cut if the commissioner has his way. fourth and finally, i agree with the commission on the need for more transparency. at the moment my committee, which takes its job seriously in trying to scrutinise the budget, simply does not have the facts at its disposal to make a proper quantitative, as well as qualitative assessment, of what is happening to the budgets for transport and the structural funds. i hope that after this debate we can work harder to make sure that we can demonstrate to the european taxpayer that value for money is being given.
mr president, i would like to draw attention to a number of budget lines that are dealt with in the committee on employment. first of all the three lines dealing with social dialogue – b3-4002, b3-4003 and b3-4310. the last one deals with the trade union technical bureau for health and safety. we are looking to increase the amounts on each of these lines, largely because of enlargement. it is very important that we get the basic building blocks of social dialogue in place in the applicant countries and we need to begin to channel resources in that direction. secondly, i should like to mention b3-4314. this concerns health and safety improvements in small- and medium-sized enterprises. we are looking to renew this line once again. i very much hope that following the work we have done on the new european health and safety strategy here in parliament – a report will shortly be appearing in my own name – on a proposal from the commission for a multi-annual programme for high levels of health and safety in smes. i hope that will come forward in the coming year and give us a permanent legal base. my final point concerns b3-4106. this is a proposal for a new budget line in the names of mr howitt and mr andersson, although it was endorsed by the committee on employment as well. it seeks to give a solid base for support to social ngos. it is very important that we do this to underpin civil dialogue.
commission - mr president, in a few minutes i should like to confirm what i said earlier and give more precise answers. i would also like to thank the speakers who understood what i was saying earlier, in particular mr pittella who just reminded us that member states have responsibilities. but quite frankly, mr watts must have misunderstood me earlier: the commission does not escape its responsibilities. i am even very concerned, mr watts, about this "under-execution". i should simply like to remind you that i am working on the basis of estimates made by the member states. there are things i have to explain to you, or confirm, and i have been observing them for the last three years, since i took up this post. for example, at the beginning of this programming, member states gave priority not to new programmes and projects but to old programmes and projects which had to be completed. so they put their efforts into soldering the old programs and they took more time to prepare the new programs. that's one reason. a new certification method has also been introduced, which has posed some problems. another example is the new payment system. there are all kinds of rules that were adopted in berlin, or after berlin, and that i am obliged to put in place. i would also add that many member states - mrs fiebiger spoke earlier about the crisis and the lack of growth - are facing objective budgetary difficulties. i remind you that we do not pay 100% for the programs. there is an additionality rule whereby member states have to make a counterpart and, probably, some have found it necessary to spread their budgetary expenditure further. these are some of the explanations you will find in the report and communication that mrs schreyer and i have provided to you. as for the rest to be liquidated, again i think it is normal that there should be about two years of programming since this corresponds to "n + 2" - we have about seven years of programming and two more in total. what would not be normal is that we continue to tolerate, and in the meantime liquidate, very old programmes. that is why my action is primarily aimed, as i said when i arrived, at removing the residual liquidation of the old programmes, which is something which has been done today. i also warn you against photographs that you may take at any given time. when you look at the balance to be settled, for example at the beginning of the year, you do not have a correct picture because, if in april almost 99% of the expenditure has been incurred, payments can be made until the end of the year. the balance to be settled at the beginning of the year therefore appears to be considerable. that is how the figure of a hundred billion was calculated. at the moment i am speaking to you, on 24 september, the balance to be settled on the old and new programmes amounts to about 50 billion, which corresponds well to these two years of programming. mrs schroedter, whom i also thank for her work - i am not forgetting the quality of her report on the second interim cohesion report - stressed sustainable development. i can assure you, madam member, that i am extremely attentive to the fact that the structural funds are implemented within the framework of the regulations and in accordance with the european environmental directives. for all sorts of political and personal reasons, i am making sure that the current and future member states use the structural funds correctly and in a way that respects sustainable development. that is why, for example, mrs schroedter, i have decided to propose, with regard to the consequences of floods, that in the future regional policy which i will submit to you at the end of 2003, while intensifying what we have already done in these programmes, the prevention of natural hazards should be an almost obligatory priority in all regional programmes. n+2 is a strict but useful rule. again, as with natural disasters, i focused on prevention. i wrote to all the prime ministers last november, as did mrs schreyer. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. at the end of this year, since this is the first appointment, the risks of losing money under the "n + 2" rule will be very limited. there will probably be more next year, because as programmes were signed in 2001, the effects will be felt in 2003 under the 'n + 2' rule. as far as the flooding is concerned, mrs fiebiger, you asked us to move quickly. quite frankly - and many german and austrian leaders have made this clear to us - the commission has rarely reacted so quickly to current events. it took us less than four weeks to propose a budgetary flexibility instrument under the authority of mrs schreyer. a few days later i proposed to the commission the rules and procedures for this fund. the ball is in the court of the european parliament. last night the council held a trilogue meeting. i hope that before the end of this year, that is to say before winter, we will be able to allocate the funds needed to deal with the rehabilitation, repair and even prevention work. as far as the social dialogue is concerned, i have heard the questions that have been put to us. they are rather under heading 3 and will be answered later by mrs schreyer or mrs diamantopoulou. finally, i should like to say that the commission is not shirking its responsibilities in all these matters, and i have finished, mr president. i am trying to play the role of transparency, to explain the truth and to be proactive in terms of transparency, as i have just said, and in terms of simplification, which is the subject of the meeting with the ministers on 5 october. i also stress the usefulness of these structural funds in improving governance on the ground, in the regions and in each of the countries that need them, including the oldest countries in the union. there is a leverage effect in partnership, evaluation, rigor and planning, which i would like to convince you of the importance of. the structural funds are not just money, they are also real progress in terms of public administration, governance and, ultimately, democracy. (applause) i would like to thank
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport. – mr president, the culture, education and information element of the budget accounts for barely half of 1% of the eu budget, compared with 50% of the budget that goes on agriculture. so i will remind parliament and the commissioners, as culture spokesmen do every year, that perhaps we have not got our priorities quite right. to turn to the issue of information: this should be a shared responsibility between the institutions and the member states. we wonder whether the member states have got their responsibilities quite right in this respect. earlier this year the culture committee visited copenhagen, and we would like to pay particular tribute to the danish government and danish parliament for the information they give to their citizens about the working of the european union. the eu has a responsibility to see that its citizens are well informed. certain members of staff make great efforts in this respect, and we would also pay tribute to commissioner vitorino for the work and the vision that he is putting into this. however, we are not succeeding. the citizens of the european union do not have enough information. we do not live in a neutral situation, we live in a situation where there is a great deal of disinformation and it is the responsibility of all concerned to see that is answered. i therefore make no apology when i point out that the proposed budget for information policy on the various b3 lines is less than eur 100 milion or less than 37 cents per citizen per annum. that is a very small sum indeed. as i speak, i know that euronews – the television channel that seeks to give objective information about all european issues – is itself suffering very serious financial difficulties. i hope the commission and the budget rapporteur will look very closely at their pleas and make sure that euronews is a success. i will remind the house that the successful slogan for the irish 'no' campagin was 'if you don't know, vote no.' we must see that the european citizens do not vote no, because they understand what the european union is about.
commission. - mr president, i will begin by replying to mr deprez, who is a great specialist in budgetary matters, justice and home affairs. as regards europol, it is true that parliament has earmarked five million for the 2002 budget. we have been faced with a question which you know very well, namely the question of the legal basis, since europol was set up by an intergovernmental convention and the only funding provided for by that intergovernmental convention is that which derives from the contributions of the member states. we started by asking europol what the five million was to be used for and, after a while, we finally received a reply in which, with realism and pragmatism, europol told us that it wanted to use 3,400,000 euros of the five million to create a database and improve communication systems between the security forces and the intelligence services in the fight against terrorism. from this point of view, we have prepared what we believe to be a legal basis which is now before the council. i share your hope that the council will unblock the question of the legal basis so that we can use the 3,400,000 euro before the end of the year. as for the time lag, i've just explained it. i have mentioned the five million to tell you that i do not entirely agree with your comparison of the figures. the five million was not offered again this year. they are not reproduced in this year's budget. we must compare the jai budget without the five million in 2002, or 114 million euros, with the 119 million euros we want to offer you. i understand that this is not much, but i am speaking under the control of mrs schreyer, who will not allow me to agree with you. as regards the budget for asylum and immigration, i believe that the budget line for cooperation with third countries was allocated in 2002 mainly to operations to help afghan refugees and the return of afghan refugees. no one can dispute the priority of the afghan question. in future, i intend to allocate appropriations from this budget line, for which no increase is foreseen, as a matter of priority to third countries which are negotiating or have just negotiated readmission agreements with us. the aim is to finance measures accompanying the implementation of readmission agreements. that said, i share your view that we should be able to have a general overview of the budgetary reality of the funds which the european union already allocates today to cooperation with third countries in the field of asylum and immigration. these funds are not only in the jha budget, but also, to a large extent, in the relex budget, in the countries strategy papers, in regional programmes such as meda or cards. that is why the seville council asked us to report on the effectiveness of the financial resources we can devote to cooperation with third countries. we will do so within the time limits set by the european council in seville and i will take this opportunity to present to you the first mid-term evaluation of the use of the european refugee fund for the period 2000-02. as regards the enlargement issue raised by mrs sbarbati, i should like to say that 60% of all the funding provided in recent years under the justice and home affairs budget to the applicant countries has been used to strengthen external border controls in the applicant countries and that the programmes concerned, which are part of the phare programme, will continue until 2006. we have an evaluation of the results of these programmes against the results achieved by the candidate countries each year. i can tell you that this is the top priority for the candidate countries. let us now leave justice and home affairs and move on to information and communication. i can only agree with the idea that an information and communication policy must be a proximity policy. that's why we've proposed a new approach. i can't promise you that the new approach will work. no one can do that. but i can assure you that the only solution is to engage in an interinstitutional partnership and in very close cooperation with the member states. if the member states do not commit themselves to a policy of information and communication in the local area, we will not be able to do so from brussels. i think that's a pretty obvious thing to say. you also know that the commitment of the member states is entirely voluntary. this means that the commission and parliament, in an interinstitutional framework, are inviting the member states to join in this exercise, because we believe that in the end it will be in the interest of all, not only of the european institutions but also of the governments of the member states, to have a public opinion that is better informed about what is happening at european level. but to do that, we need the human resources. i therefore called for the amounts in the gnp and the preliminary draft budget relating to the prince correspondents and the media correspondents in the capitals of the member states to be retained. without these instruments we will not be able to establish this partnership with the member states. i thank you for your support in this regard and hope that on the basis of this partnership we can develop a more proactive, clearer and better targeted information and communication policy. (applause) i would like to thank
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on development and cooperation. – mr president, once again this year the increase in funds committed to pre-accession in category 4 means an overall decline in europe's external action devoted to development. sadly, the only real long-term solution to this problem lies in the revision of the financial perspective in 2006. i shall concentrate today on two issues where we can make a real difference this year. firstly, the global health fund against aids, tb and malaria. the committee on development has proposed that all regional budget lines contribute to achieving the sizeable recurrent contribution needed. aids is a global problem. india is the country with the second-highest level of infection after south africa, and the biggest increase in infections is in eastern europe and central asia. already the fund has committed 13% of its money to the americas. but if the commission and council disagree with this approach, let them tell us where the money will come from. let them admit that the eur 35 million budgeted for does not achieve mr patten's own commitment made on 16 september in order to keep the commission's own seat on the global health fund board. this is right for europe as a leader and innovator in the field, and it is right for the 3 million people dying of aids worldwide to make sure that the money works. i have been given a clear understanding that the global health fund's transitional working group meeting in brussels agreed usd 100 million for a board seat, that the global fund secretariat has already budgeted for a usd 120 million european community contribution for next year, and that approved projects will be cut if we fail to match that figure. i have given the commissioner advance notice of these questions. if i am wrong, let him put this on the record today, and if i am right let him support our amendments. secondly, the quality of aid. it is regrettable that agreements made since the reform of external assistance still mean that three times as much european aid is spent on transport as on health and education, combined, for the poorest people in greatest need. that is why parliament this year is seeking to earmark this spending and promote it as part of the deconcentration of staff and in the new country strategy papers. commissioner nielson will be aware that on 15 july his services promised a firm proposal on this point and that i received his reply by fax only at 3.40 p.m. this afternoon after this debate had begun. i conclude by saying that i hope the commissioner will therefore defer the proper concerns he may wish to raise in relation to parliament's proposals this afternoon, and commit himself to the further discussions where i agree with his wish, and i quote 'to press ahead together in achieving our common goals'. i look forward to hearing his response.
mr president, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to take action in this area. firstly, we have had the strongest new demands in foreign policy for years without the possibility of expanding the budget. the council and parliament have already used the flexibility reserve on several occasions to meet the new requirements. as regards afghanistan, i would like to thank the council and, above all, parliament in advance for agreeing to mobilise very quickly the eur 70 million still in reserve this year to help here, in particular to provide the necessary direct budgetary aid to the transitional government. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have already contributed 120 million from the eu budget and the edf budget to the global health fund. the decision has just been taken, so we assume that these funds will be sufficient. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. he will be commenting on this. the commission has presented a new multiannual programme on energy - intelligent energy - which also provides for the promotion of such intelligent energy in third countries. i think that the johannesburg summit has once again made it very clear that we should give particular weight to this.
commission. – let me first address the issue mentioned by mr howitt, of the amounts targeted towards health and education. most members of parliament will recognise that, since we have discussed this again and again, it is not easy to say anything new. that is also the reason why mr howitt has not missed anything, even though i did not have the opportunity to reply to his last letter in time. that does not, of course, prevent us from continuing to discuss the matter amicably. the agreement last year on a 35% benchmark on health and education is an input indicator for our commitments to social infrastructure. the commission will provide the breakdown of figures against the various dac codes from the oecd showing commitments in 2002 and 2003 for health and education. the level of commitments will depend mainly on the results of the programming exercise in our partner countries. there is no need to re-open the agreement of last year, and there is nothing to be gained by it in terms of additional information. the systems of tracing and categorising more clearly what we do is under implementation – according to what we have promised parliament – and that will create a basis for a more enlightened discussion on these issues. on the funding of the global health fund, as my colleague mrs schreyer has already said, the commission will ensure that it will do what is expected. this is all we really need to say at this point. i agree very much with mr laschet that the increase in tacis is important, inter alia for reasons of stepping up our presence in general in that region. on what was said about involving parliament more closely when making political promises, i understood that to mean that parliament should be involved more before making political promises, otherwise i do not see why we need to discuss it. this is certainly a good and correct way of working and, in general, i feel this is the way things are being done. remarks were made about staffing and security in delegations. we welcome the amendment by the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy underlining the difficult security situation of many of our delegations. however, the development committee amendment relating to the recruitment of specialists – the other point raised by mr howitt – puts very rigid and complicated conditions on the release of eur 10 million of these funds. it would seriously undermine the deconcentration process, since we need to know the funds available in order to recruit and train staff. it will also unnecessarily penalise some of the poorest beneficiaries, since the main impact will fall on delegations in 30 acp countries. what we do, and what we prefer to do, is to strengthen the handling of the different sectors by means of networks of specialists both in headquarters and out in delegations. however, a very rigid system, as proposed by the development committee's amendment, will not help us in getting things done in an efficient manner, so we do not welcome that proposal.
mr president, my point concerns the next four hours. commissioner nielson was not here when i made my opening remarks but one of them concerned the global health fund. one question we need answering before we take a decision next week on category 4 is: what is the amount of money that the european union has to pay to get a seat on the board of the global health fund? we are getting conflicting comments from the commission and from our colleagues in the committee on development. the committee on budgets needs to know a figure.
commission. – mr president, my reluctance to answer is based on the fact that we do not have a figure. if we look at what it took to get a seat in the first year, following the establishment of the fund, the mathematics tell us that it was around eur 84 million, but the united states says that it is paying for about four seats. we would not like to see a larger health fund board. that would not be efficient. other actors are trying to get seats on that board, so there is some pressure. as you know, we came up with eur 120 million for the first year. the actual use of that money and the overall availability of funds compared to the actual spending in the first year makes for a very open discussion as to the actual funding need for the coming year. it is against this background that the commission finds it advisable not to come up with a figure today. we want to have a picture of what other donors are doing to make sure that we feed money into the fund in a prudent manner to make it work as expected, but also to maximise value for money whatever we do in this area as a whole. we do not have a figure right now. also, we are not under pressure at this stage to clarify all the details of how we find the money, so we advise waiting a little. that is why you do not have a clear answer.
mr president, i would just like to raise four points. firstly, the g8 recently reached agreement on the need to promote energy efficiency and renewable energy in developing countries. mrs schreyer referred to this (to the intelligent energy programme) earlier. my question to mrs schreyer is: would she say that eur 19 million over four years is adequate for preparatory work in over 80 – 90 countries? my question to mr nielson is: it is recognised that energy is a factor in poverty for the developing countries, so could he tell us how he proposes to coordinate his work with other dgs to tackle this? my second point is that commission patten has made statements that the eu should have a poverty focus in its development aid. therefore, would you agree that it is inconsistent to increase funding, as foreign affairs amendments have done, to latin america and meda lines, and actually take away money from asia lines? what do you think of mr. elles' statement today that afghanistan should be funded from the flexibility instrument? i would like to return to the global health fund. i am not really satisfied with the response and the answer we have had from commissioner nielson. what i want to know, with regard to the eur 35 million that we are proposing, is whether that is enough to get us a seat on the board? is that adequate in terms of the eu leading the debate and fighting aids in the world? finally, i would like to ask the council their opinion on the u-turn in the ppe position, and the proposal to break the gentleman's agreement. in the july conciliation, the ppe agreed to the council's budget, but this afternoon we were informed by mr elles that they will put eur 6.3 million from their basics budget in the reserve. they are breaking their word, and if this amendment is accepted, what would the council's response be? (applause from the left)
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on budgetary control. – mr president, i have basically left it open to all members of the budgetary control committee to suggest amendments in the sectors that they tend to cover. mr bösch has tabled a number of amendments from the point of view of a critical friend, regarding olaf, the anti-fraud office. we are now beginning to see the problems of the office not being completely independent of the commission. accordingly, mr bösch's amendments which have been adopted by the committee include questioning the mission expenses of olaf, questioning their information and communication measures – having received a reasonable amount of money for this purpose, the office put out less than twelve press releases in both 2000 and 2001 – and indeed questioning both the commission and olaf over a cut. the pdb actually cut the budget for olaf by a substantial figure and we had no answers as to why that money had been cut. the committee has reinstated the money cut, but has put this money into the reserve pending the answers from both those institutions. the committee has also taken a strong view on export refunds. there are many experts on export refunds on the committee. i am definitely not one of those, but essentially the amendments aim for transparency and to help people like me understand the purpose, scope, cost and implementation of export refunds. other amendments include those on the economic and social committee, cutting funds to reduce its dependence on external experts, increasing appropriations for the measures to combat counterfeiting of the euro – something i as a british conservative have some trepidation in suggesting – and reinstating part of a cut in budget line b1-361 which seeks to improve monitoring and preventative measures in candidate countries concerning agriculture budgets. those are the amendments that the budgetary control committee has submitted.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. – on behalf of the committee legal affairs and the single market, i want to draw attention to those items affecting the court of justice and the court of first instance. it is not possible to sit through this process without realising how many desirable projects for expenditure the european union has and that, with finite resources, all budgets have to be trimmed here and there, but members must give very particular attention to the problem of our two courts. the eu succeeds in being a union under law only to the extent that it has an effective set of judicial tribunals. this parliament has the ambition that the charter of rights shall become judicially cognisable. this is a highly desirable project but one which will put heavy demands on the judicial resources of the european union. the court of justice and the court of first instance both believe that they have reached the limit of their resources and that without adequate funding they will cease to be able to provide what the european union needs. the european union needs efficient, well-working courts without undue delays, without delays in court dockets. because we are a polyglot, multilingual union, there must be speedy, clear and accurate translation of the courts' judgments into all the languages of the european union in order that citizens and their legal advisers throughout the european union are up-to-date on the law of this union and how it is properly interpreted. if we do not reinstate the estimates that the court of justice itself made, we will fail more and more often. there are very specific points: we need referendaires in the court of first instance because the european union has failed to fill vacancies for judges, we need upgraded posts and we need improved translation services. that is what the amendments by the legal affairs committee amount to.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy. – mr president, i am pleased to see commissioner fischler here, but some of the comments i have to make will also refer to commissioner byrne's portfolio. i was astounded to read a letter in the financial times yesterday, from hervé gaymond, the french agriculture minister, and six other agriculture ministers. it was entitled ‘the cap is something to be proud of’. i was one of 400 000 countryside marchers in london on sunday who would not agree. subsidies have not delivered prosperity and security for british farmers; in fact, often subsidies and quotas are being capitalised into the high cost base of our industry. the letter reminded me of a drug addict in denial, addicted to subsidies. rather than trying to kick the habit, they want to offer pills to the eastern european countries waiting outside the school gates to get them hooked too. the cap needs reform before enlargement, in particular, we should stop the hypocrisy of subsidising tobacco to the tune of over eur 1 billion per year. the environment committee has also asked for 50% of the budget for the european food safety authority to be put into the reserve. i hope this will be recognised by the council as a clear signal that they should end the uncertainty about its location, which is making it so difficult for this embryonic institution to recruit staff and develop as an effective agency.
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has been working. i would like to make a very brief comment on the questions raised here in the light of the passage of time. i can spare myself from raising again the last question put by mrs miguélez ramos in connection with these 32 million and 27 million; i have already dealt with this in my first speech. several members have indicated that they are against this general reduction of 0.8%, i am against such a general reduction, and i believe that this is generally an accounting measure and not a political measure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. i want to remind you: there is a study in progress on tobacco; this study will be completed by the end of the year. it was planned from the outset - and we have discussed this several times in this parliament - that we should make a proposal next year for another form of tobacco market regulation. the same applies to sugar. it is quite clear that our current sugar market arrangements, especially when we consider the impact that everything but arms will have after the end of the transitional period, cannot survive in their present form and that changes are therefore necessary. but here too i have already announced to parliament on several occasions that we intend to do so next year. as far as milk is concerned, this is in principle included in the midterm review and it is also made clear that the commission is ready to make a legislative proposal for adjustments to the milk market regulation at any time, but only if it is politically clear that the member states are ready to go in any direction. we have no chance at present of getting even close to a majority in the council. that is why it makes little sense to table a legislative proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i can only give credit to those who have referred to yesterday's financial times article, because although the article states that the common agricultural policy is better than its reputation - a sermon i give about once a week - it is also clear that we want to strengthen rural development, we want to have more quality and more food security. but when it comes to the actual implementation, then you have to say where the money for strengthening rural development comes from. there is only one source of money here, and this is the first pillar. the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter is a very serious matter. i would also like to say one thing about this article: in my view, it is clear that agricultural policy has changed for the better where there has been a willingness to implement appropriate reforms. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. on the question of fleet modernisation and why we are blocking it: i do not want to break the debate on fisheries reform now - we have ample opportunity to discuss these issues - but i would just like to remind you that the commission's proposals do not include the compulsory scrapping of a certain number of vessels in a certain segment, in a certain member state, but we are opening up possibilities here. the decision-making power remains with the shipowner concerned and no one is condemned to forced landing, including no member state. we should stop making these accusations, because they only help to keep the fishermen in a bad mood. we really need to talk about the realities here. so when it is said that the incomes of farmers due to bad weather in ireland are such a big problem, i can assure you that we are also prepared to help ireland. the first is that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we are prepared to transfer the advance payments as early as 16 october, the first day the money is available. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has also proposed that the community should be able to provide the community with a financial contribution to the research programme. we must ensure that we establish appropriate priorities there. we did. mr maat is right when he says that there can be no special shift in financial priorities in 2003, but we have a small chicken-and-egg problem in both areas - agriculture and fisheries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the other side says: we must first know what the policy is, then we can talk about the financial resources needed. this is also the practice which has been so far perceived by parliament. it is therefore important that we now initiate further reform steps in fisheries and agriculture. the commission has already made a number of proposals. because without knowing what politics looks like, it's hard to calculate. (applause from the centre)
the council. - mr president, members of the commission, members of the european parliament, it has been very useful to attend the debate on behalf of the council. both parliament and the commission have raised important issues concerning the 2003 budget and i have noted the different views and i can assure you that i will pass them on to my colleagues in the council. i would like to add a few comments to a few of the speeches that have been made. the council, like the european parliament, is particularly concerned about the large surplus in the eu budget, which amounted to eur 15 billion last year. today's debate has highlighted the responsibilities of both the commission and the member states in this area, and this calls for follow-up. as regards the mid-term evaluation of the agricultural policy, i would like to stress that the danish presidency will do everything it can to bring the reform negotiations forward. the second important issue for the council and the european parliament to find common solutions to is the creation of the special fund for the consequences of the floods in central europe. last night we had an extraordinary trilogue on this and i am pleased to say that the european parliament, the commission and the council are in agreement that the necessary decisions and acts can be adopted before the end of october. i expect the council to make the necessary contribution to this. there is already agreement in principle to set up a fund of up to eur 1 billion per year and it is important that the eu can step up its aid to the victims of the floods in austria, germany and the candidate countries concerned as soon as possible. my colleague, the european minister bertel haarder, presented the results of the council's first reading of the 2003 budget in the plenary on 3 september. he stressed the agreements and common understandings reached at the meeting on 19 july. i am very pleased with this result. it means a great deal to the danish presidency that we have the full support of the council to discuss important issues with parliament at an early stage. on 19 july, it was agreed that the administrative preparations for enlargement are a top priority for the institutions from now on and throughout 2003, and i would like to stress that the administrative basis for enlargement is secured by the agreement on administrative expenditure for 2003. this early agreement also provides the institutions with the best possible planning basis for preparing for enlargement. there has also been a very thorough debate here today on the external tasks of the european union. in this context, it is positive that a common understanding has been reached that efforts must be made to secure the financing of the common foreign and security policy in the light of substantial new tasks. an important priority in this context is, as i mentioned at the outset, the eu's takeover of the un police mission in bosnia-herzegovina. we also agree to seek agreement on the involvement of parliament in cfsp measures within the framework of the treaty. it is also a significant achievement that the emergency aid reserve for humanitarian aid can now also be used for civilian crisis management. in june, a common understanding was reached on financing the restructuring of the spanish and portuguese fishing fleets and on keeping the growth rate of the total payment appropriations as low as possible. i am of course aware that there is still a long way to go before we can reach a final overall agreement on the 2003 budget. today's debate has helped to clarify the ideas and positions of parliament and the commission, and i am confident that we can continue the good cooperation between the institutions and find together the necessary solutions so that a budget can be adopted in december based on a thorough prioritisation of eu funds within the financial perspective. this will enable us to face the challenges of the coming years together. thank you for your attention.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on budgets. – mr president, i just want to thank everybody, because, as i said at the beginning, this was a unique event. we have never done anything like this before. in the main it has been successful. granted, some members just made standard speeches, but there has been some good debate and we have had some good responses. we have also had some confusing responses, especially on the global health fund. i should like to thank all those who have taken part, especially the individual commissioners, and mrs schreyer for being here all the time. i should also like to thank the president-in-office. during this presidency, the danes have achieved several firsts in the budget procedure and to sit here for four and a half hours is a massive first. it has never been done before. (applause)i must also note that mr elles' speech in which he set out six priorities of the ppe-de group was very good. three of them seemed to have more to do with getting british conservatives onto the list, which is going ahead at present, than with budgetary rigour or budgetary sense. i am sure mr elles will take that in the manner in which it is meant. all in all it has been a good debate and i should like to thank all those who have taken part. (applause)
commission. – mr president, as announced in the commission's transport white paper of 12 september 2001, the marco polo programme will provide community funding to new international transport solutions which offer a viable alternative to road-freight transport. more specifically, the programme should help shift the expected increase in international road freight of 12 billion tonnes per km per year from congested roads to short-sea shipping, rail and inland waterway services. the programme will be operational by 2003 and will last until 2010. for the five-year period from 2003-2007, we propose an overall budget of eur 115 million. marco polo is an ambitious and pragmatic programme, geared to concretely improving services and logistics in the short-sea, rail and inland waterway freight markets. at the same time, it provides for appropriate monitoring and control to exclude unacceptable distortions of competition in the market. marco polo is thus more than a single continuation of the pact programme, which came to an end on 31 december 2001. marco polo will be able to co-fund actions leading to modal shifts and better practices in all segments of the short-sea shipping, rail and inland waterway freight logistic markets. it will not be restricted to the combined transport sector as pact was. marco polo will also support actions involving countries outside the european union and candidate countries, in particular the applicant countries, whereas pact excluded them. the programme also gives clear policy directions to industry on what changes the community expects and needs in the freight market. in this context, it proposes funding for three different types of actions: modal shift actions, catalyst actions and common learning actions. a few words on each of them. modal shift actions: these involved start-up aid for new services in the non-road freight market. catalyst actions: this aid is also limited in time and should lead to viable non-road freight services. however, these actions are more ambitious than modal shift actions. they should change the way that non-road freight transport is conducted in europe. common learning actions: these seek to improve cooperation and share know-how in an increasingly complex transport and logistics industry. in order to achieve a real european added value, the commission proposes to support only projects of significant impact on the market, which implies sufficiently large contracts. i have outlined to you the commission's objective in setting up the programme and i now look forward with great interest to the debate.
rapporteur. – mr president, i should like to thank the commissioner for her opening comments on the general aims of the commission's proposals. i have several important points to make on my report concerning the marco polo programme. firstly, this programme must strike a proper balance. it would be extremely counterproductive to bury business in yet more red tape, notwithstanding the need for efficient scrutiny of how money is spent and how effective the programme is proving to be. secondly, in my view as rapporteur, it is essential that the programme remains market-driven. this provides an excellent opportunity to show that the eu is prepared to help, not hinder, business, as is so often the accusation. i especially welcome the committee's decision to lower the thresholds involved. this is something i have been adamant in fighting for, not just on behalf of numerous small and medium-sized enterprises in my own region, but also for smes in general which, if it were not for these low thresholds, would miss out entirely on funding which is there to help them achieve the goals of the programme. thanks to the new proposed new thresholds, companies could work together or alone in putting forward innovative projects that will benefit the industry as a whole. keeping the original thresholds would mean that small businesses had once again been ignored by the european union, which would seem to be merely interested – from the commission's own comments – in showcase schemes. this, whilst looking good, does not benefit the people who pay for them – the taxpayers. in order to advance the immediate aims of the marco polo programme – those of improving the environmental performance of freight transport and reducing road congestion, albeit in a relatively small way – this lowering of subsidy thresholds is crucial. i also view as a welcome addition to this report, and one that well accompanies the reduction in these thresholds, the simplified definitions. this may not sound much to those of us who have been working on the report since march, but to the already overburdened managers of companies in the freight transport system all over europe it would prove a great help in making applications for assistance for projects much easier. indeed, these definitions could well prove to be the difference between companies not fully understanding the system – and hence not bothering to apply – and smes having much greater confidence in approaching the commission with bids for their own innovative projects. my last point reiterates one of the main aims of this proposal: that of reducing bottlenecks. i agree with the commission that congestion threatens both the environment and the operational working of the whole freight transport sector. it is therefore imperative that we concentrate, in practical ways, on how to defuse these bottlenecks, especially around sea ports. with regard to some of my earlier points, i feel that the lowering of the thresholds and the simplified definitions also apply here. it would be wrong to infer that only large-scale projects can reduce bottlenecks. i believe that innovative projects, on a smaller scale, can have just as much practical use – indeed if not more so – than those costing many millions of euros. thus, given the final outcome of the report in committee, i reiterate the necessity of our open approach – the carrot rather than the stick – designed to encourage the participation of the business community. success will very much depend on enterprises coming forward with their ideas, not those thrust upon them by regulation. i would commend the report to the house.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on budgets. – mr president, i am very much in favour of this programme. mr bradbourn has made very sensible suggestions and has a feel for the needs of the travelling public, in particular those in cars who are delayed by heavy freight vehicles. i applaud the entire marco polo programme, which is badly needed to stop congestion. i am a civil engineer by background. i served on the transport committee in the house of commons in london for eight years and know only too well by travelling up and down to my north-west region from london how very difficult it is to do something about this problem. i applaud the fact that new initiatives will be encouraged by this programme, ensuring that traffic is phased into junctions by using light-emitting diodes etc., things which are cheap but which are very effective and absolutely vital. we must ensure that this scheme is properly monitored. that is the idea behind the opinion of the committee on budgets. we emphasise that, half way through the period up to 2010, there should be a thorough audit and investigation of what has been achieved. i agree entirely with mr bradbourn that we should not just go for large schemes, because out there the logistics industry – and i applaud its efforts up and down the country and across all countries in the european union – has a lot of ideas that it wants to start up. that is where much improvement can take place. i understand that the council is anxious to reduce the amount of money being made available for this project. however, i hope that even if that does take place, we will show by the mid-term review that we are getting excellent value for money and that the budget should be raised in future years. i applaud everyone involved in this very forward-thinking scheme.
mr president, i welcome marco polo in principle and in practice. its predecessor, pact, was very popular in the united kingdom with both the public and the private sectors. i am sure marco polo will be even more popular in the united kingdom. i should also like to thank the rapporteur for ensuring that marco polo will be even more business-friendly than pact was. i agree with the commissioner that is important that marco polo does not lose sight of its main objective, which is to encourage modal shift. why must we do that? firstly, because we must tackle pollution. transport is the fastest-growing source of global warming gases in europe. secondly, we must tackle congestion. we must, for example, help switch high-volume, long-distance freight away from the road onto the railways where it belongs. action is also clearly needed at eu level, not just at a national level. after all, only by encouraging the 15 railway companies to work together can some of the artificial national barriers to free movement be removed. action is also needed to encourage greater use of our ports, seas and inland waterways. 40 per cent of freight already goes by sea. that is an area where we can – and because of marco polo will – see more growth. marco polo will make a difference there. finally, and most importantly, let us not get carried away with our own rhetoric. marco polo is a positive move but, on its own, it is clearly nowhere near enough. the pse group urges the commissioner to encourage more actions like this and encourage the member states themselves to take on board their own responsibilities to encourage modal shift in a much more dramatic and radical way than we have seen in the past.
mr president, experience has taught me that when bureaucrats and politicians resort to jargon, citizens should guard their wallets. what is one supposed to make of the phrasing used to proclaim that one of the aims of the marco polo programme is to maintain the module repetition of freight transport at its 1998 levels by promoting a modal shift from road to other transport modes? another gem was the heading 'optimism in infrastructure capacity and logistical concepts'. this sort of mindless gobbledegook means as much to the ordinary citizen of europe as a text in ancient sanskrit. the commission needs to learn that transparency is not about putting things on the website. it is about writing in clear, jargon-free language that ordinary people can understand. as to the substantive issue of reducing road congestion and improving the environmental performance of the transport system, i note that this ambitious aim is to be funded to the tune of eur 115 million over 5 years. that is just eur 23 million a year to be spent europe-wide between 15 member states – or is it to be 25 member states? frankly, even if this aim could be achieved by the commission's financial instrument – and i share mr bradbourn's scepticism on this – the amount of money allocated would hardly begin to dent the problem. as always, the community's ambitions are bigger than our pockets. therein lies the problem. the money being spent belongs to the taxpayers of europe, it is drawn from national governments, each of which has its own unique problems. thus, as always, the commission is looking for a european problem that does not exist on a european level and then failing to address it. mr bradbourn's traffic-light solution, however, hardly seems appropriate. the problem in eastern england, the region i represent, is that we have neither decent roads nor decent railways. yet improving infrastructure would cost more in my part of england than the whole of the budget allocated to this scheme. given such a pathetic response from the commission and the clear evidence that this house does not have any better solutions, it would be better to leave transport improvements to national governments. our government in particular seems well capable of making its own mess of our transport policy without any help from the commission and its jargon.
mr president, i am delighted that we are having a debate on this vitally important subject. it is clear that many member states still have much to do to reduce high levels of unemployment. it is very easy to set targets and to make promises – as chancellor schröder has found out – but the jobless need action and not words. i agree with the rapporteur that job creation is a major challenge. i disagree with his conclusions that we need the commission to examine anew the causes of low economic growth and to submit suggestions to reverse it. the causes are clear, the actions required are clear. what is needed is the political will to make it happen. there is, however, no solution to unemployment in strengthening the role of the social partners to quote the rapporteur 'in all matters' regarding the organisation of work and working conditions – though i am sure the trade unions are always looking for such an opportunity. the social partners may well have a very useful role in some countries and in some cases but, given that the majority of employment growth is coming from smes whose employees are beholden neither to big business nor to big unions, it is hard to see how such a move would be positive for job creation. certainly we must all put job creation at the top of our own agendas. i earnestly hope that colleagues from all sides of the house, and indeed the commissioner, will reflect on this when we are voting on the atypical workers directive in a few weeks time.
mr president, i welcome the part of the proposed resolution relating to health and meeting health targets. firstly, the reduction of the prevalence of hiv-aids – a disease that has reduced life expectancy in sub-saharan africa from 62 to 47 years – is an absolutely essential target. there are reliable estimates to say that if the present state of the disease continues, every other 15-year-old girl in south africa will die of hiv-aids. one way to combat this is through further development of microbicides. this particular form of preventive treatment can be singled out because, unlike conventional methods of protection, it allows women to take responsibility for its use. the problem is that investment in their development is not sufficient and such treatments are still several years away. there is a real problem in obtaining money for clinical trials. the second point is to draw the attention of colleagues to parliament's own work on the sixth framework programme. through this programme the european union has given high priority to combating poverty-linked infectious diseases, such as aids, malaria and tuberculosis. finally, i should like to mention access to medicines. i hope the present contretemps about trips and possible barriers to the most modern medicines will be overcome very shortly. there is also a shortage of generic medicines, the cheaper medicines and other forms of treatment, which are just as important in countries where poverty is so rife and where water standards are so poor. it is a priority and the european union must do all it can to stave off one of the biggest threats to the global population – disease.
mr president, commissioners you will be beginning to find our speeches repetitive. great: in a multi-national and cross-party body, that means our message will get through. we all agree, for example, that energy is the largest contributor by far to the emission of greenhouse gases. some of us think that nuclear energy is expensive, outdated, potentially dangerous and no solution at all to energy problems. but we all agree that transport is the key energy problem: fossil fuels must be replaced by alternatives, and very soon. how? we agree that renewable energy and energy efficiency are key solutions. this was recognised in johannesburg, but unfortunately, only to a limited extent. however, we should act quickly on this through the eu. remember that the key role of energy in poverty alleviation was recognised at johannesburg, and that the new eu programme, coopener, on renewable energy and energy efficiency in the developing world, will help to access some of the funding which will be available, this programme is important. there is, incidentally, a very strong gender implication to the provision of energy, because of the tasks of women throughout the developing world. the failure to achieve targets for renewable energy – a failure for which the united states, to their shame, are largely responsible – can be overcome with goodwill and effort from the european union. on the matter of implementation: carrying suitcases from summit to summit does nothing. it is what happens in between the summits that matters, and i urge you, commissioners, to use your legislative powers and your monitoring ability to ensure that what was said at johannesburg, even if it is not enough, is carried through.
mr president, i was one of the members who attended the summit in johannesburg and was fortunate enough to meet some of the thousands who went there from all over the world to focus attention on the need for people-centred policies. we heard over and over again that the summit had to change the lives of the poorest people in the world if it was to be a success. we did not expect dramatic changes and we did not get them, but there was some modest progress. for example we saw a move towards achieving better governance. i hope that this parliament will actively support universal membership of the unep for environment ministers. this could be the starting point for a world environment organisation. this brings us to the central question of enforcement and monitoring. we know from experience since rio that it is one thing to make agreements but another to ensure they are implemented. we welcome the possibility at last of bringing the kyoto protocol into force, but it has been a long and difficult process. how will progress from johannesburg onwards be achieved? it is not clear. although the johannesburg declaration includes a commitment to an inclusive process, which means involving the kinds of groups that met around the summit, how is this going to be done? similarly the regional and local level are important. we know how the private sector is going to be involved, but how will different levels of government be involved? finally, i welcome the fact that the efforts to include biotechnology as an intrinsic part of sustainability were resisted in johannesburg, despite the efforts of the united states. at the very time when the summit was going on to use a human crisis to try and force gm food aid on some of the world's poorest countries. this takes away freedom of choice, undermines human dignity and works against sustainability. we must continue to resist it.
- the speakers from the political groups have the floor. the good news is that i can be flexible in terms of timing: the speaking time can be extended if the speakers wish.
president of the council. - mr president, i have to go. i would like to thank you for a good and comprehensive debate. i would like to begin by thanking mr da silva and mr maaten for the beautiful words they used about cooperation between the eu institutions in johannesburg. i would like to convey these words to the danish minister for the environment, who is meeting his chinese counterpart today on the issues we are discussing here. as you know, the eu-china summit is being held today in copenhagen and he cannot be here. mrs scheele wanted there to be coordination with the applicant countries too. i am informed that there was in fact a daily consultation with the applicant countries. i think that is very important too. when she says that there was no mention of women and health in the declaration, i would point out that it was quite specifically mentioned that environmental threats to health must be reduced. it must be in accordance with human rights and fundamental freedoms, and it must be in accordance with national laws and cultural and religious values. so there was something to it. i have noted mr langes' wish that members of parliament should attend morning sittings. i've got it down. i cannot give you any assurances on this point, but we must learn from our experience, and i thank you for your proposal. many people have spoken about the question of the eu's agricultural policy, and i do not have to add much to that. i think it is not possible to deny what mr lannoye and mr maaten have said, that agricultural policy is one of the problems when we in the european union are trying to reach agreement on a more sustainable future. i would like to mention again that at the asem summits last week and this week, at the initiative of china, it was decided to hold a preparatory meeting on agricultural policy in beijing so that the european and asian countries can be as well prepared as possible for the cancún meeting. so, things have moved on. there will certainly be an opportunity to continue this dialogue with a number of other countries. i have noted with great interest mrs corbeys suggestion to raise the awareness of citizens of how they can contribute and, without referring to what was said, i would like to thank both mrs langenhagen, mrs mcnally, mr wijkman and many others for their dedicated contributions. i have noted the literary examples that have been put forward. andersen and voltaire, "the emperor's new clothes" and panglos, who, whatever happens in voltaire's "candide", believes that everything is arranged in the wisest way. it's funny, and we should always keep that in mind, because andersen and voltaire had a keen sense of the human need for carefree, when it's convenient. i think, however, that at the end of my speech i should be allowed to say that the eu institutions did a good job in johannesburg. as mrs wallström said, the eu was the driving force behind the process. new targets were set and existing ones tightened up. there were deadlines. it is now a matter of keeping each other on board, of taking the lead ourselves and thereby gaining the right to keep others on board with these objectives. the follow-up is crucial, as mr papayannakis said at the end. now it's time for follow-up. i look forward to that, and therefore, before i give the floor to the commissioners, i would like to thank them for the very great work they have done and will continue to do in the follow-up.
- i would like to thank the commissioners for their cooperation in agreeing to speak at the end of the debate rather than at the beginning.
- according to the rules of procedure, members may not be on official business during a plenary sitting of parliament.
commission. – mr president, i would like to turn to our audience today and welcome them to this debate in the european parliament. we are discussing two different things, although they are interlinked. we are discussing a report that has been drawn up by mrs hulthén, a swedish mep, about how to combat climate change. i would first like to comment on that and then make some concluding remarks about our discussion on johannesburg. i will now speak swedish for a little while.
- the joint discussion is over. the vote will take place at 12 noon. i have received a motion for a resolution. pursuant to rule 37 (2) of the rules of procedure. the vote will take place on thursday. the following shall be considered as a written declaration:
in writing. - while we are aware of the lack of international conviction in favour of sustainable development that reduces poverty and protects the environment, we are nevertheless reassured that the principles agreed at rio will survive. what went wrong, who's to blame? the community's responsibility for this lamentable stagnation cannot be diminished. collective failure is a sign of discredit. the aim of achieving majorities with the g77 countries, allied to rio and kyoto, while the union blames its own failure in its project for a sustainable development that is limited to its borders, is a caricature! the examples are numerous and revealing: biodiversity, the subject of a rio convention, is steadily declining. species are disappearing, habitats are being eroded inexorably. the biodiversity action plan is a good one, but it is only wishful thinking. the 'birds' and 'habitats' directives are still forgotten in many member states. we have a fundamental political and moral responsibility to demand of ourselves what we demand of others. the commission should aim to present an annual report on progress in integrating the sustainable development dimension into all community policies. the rehabilitation of our european credibility requires that we, together with our international partners, re-examine a policy of poverty eradication and ecocide industrial processes.
mr president, on a point of order, on monday i raised a point of order about rule 2 and yesterday had the minutes corrected to indicate the exact purport of that point. in my remarks on monday i suggested that there was a risk of a certain meeting of pesca ministers having been intended to interfere with the independence of action of parliament. mr jové peres was one of the rapporteurs in question and he made a statement this morning. i fully accept what he said and if i caused him embarrassment i would like to apologise. (applause)
mr president, this report was also voted under rule 110a of the rules of procedure which allows for no debate and no amendments to the report. the british delegation of the ppe-de group has previously sought to amend reports which it did not support. the new rule, however, leaves us no option but to vote against certain reports. most of this report represents the very worse of politically correct claptrap. women are increasingly achieving more top positions in society and this will continue to improve as, in my country at least, women are more successful than men in gaining university places. we do not support quotas or interference in the ways in which trades unions, for example, select their officers. the committee on women's affairs and equal opportunities talks about gender mainstreaming whilst at the same time its very existence contradicts this principle.
mr president, this report was voted under rule 110a of the rules of procedure, which allows for no debate and no amendment to the report. the british delegation of the ppe-de group has previously sought to amend reports which it did not support. the new rule, however, leaves no option but to vote against certain reports. whilst we support much of what the hulthén report contains, and of course its objectives, we could not vote in favour of a package that contains references to european eco-taxes. tax is a matter for member states. it is not within the competence of the european union.
mr president, on behalf of my group i should like to say i was disappointed to see that amendment 6 from the committee went through. this whole directive was really about cross-border legal aid. to take the whole cross-border element out, and to try and look at the whole question of harmonising legal aid throughout the european union, is – in my opinion and that of my group – bound to lead to one hell of a muddle. if we had stuck to the liberal amendment and had concentrated solely on cross-border legal aid cases, then i think we could have had a workable document in front of us today. unfortunately we do not. however, that being said, we did ultimately vote for the directive. there are other parts in it which we feel we can support, and we leave the council of ministers, hopefully, to sort out the bits that unfortunately went through.
in writing. - the delegation of the british conservative party fully supports the idea of greater cooperation between judicial authorities, particularly in the enforcement of judgments and the service of legal procedure within europe. this is both a help to british business and a contribution to the completion of the single market. however, the measures envisaged in this report do not seem to be of much help and their resource implications in offering free legal assistance, irrespective of the merits of the case, to anyone wishing to pursue an action are both naive and totally unrealistic. that is why the british conservative party cannot support the measures proposed in this report.
raporteur. – mr president, i should like to begin by thanking commissioner patten for his kind words earlier on. when we are discussing the code of conduct, i think we have to set it in a very clear context. we should begin by recognising that the code of conduct is the most comprehensive international arms export control regime in existence. nowhere else is there such a sharing of information about arms transfers. we must also recognise just how far we have come. we were told at one time that a code of conduct was not possible. then, that if we had it, it would be no more than a statement of intention. then, that any annual report would not be published. and then that the parliament would never be consulted on such an annual report. all these things have come to pass, and we see that the code, in operation, has developed its own in-built dynamics. so, it is actually taking member states further than they initially wanted to go when they started off rather suspiciously with a code of conduct. we should recognise that and set all our criticisms in that context. the application of the code is leading member states towards greater dialogue, mutual understanding and greater convergence. what is fascinating for me is that the annual reports show that we are making progress on the very issues which the european parliament has raised. we have often called for action to be taken on arms brokering, and we believe that it has been a fundamental weakness of the code of conduct that it has not addressed this issue. therefore, we are very pleased that the third annual report states that guidelines for controlling arms brokers have been agreed in council, that member states should be looking to register arms brokers, and that these legal controls should be supported by penalties. we welcome that. however, the report does not say when this is all going to happen. we need a timetable for progress, so that all member states take action in relation to arms brokers. we have called for greater transparency, both at national and european level, we recognise that some of the problem of lack of transparency is created by different member states collecting information in different ways. we welcome, therefore, the improvements in the third annual report, but we are still having problems in relation to data collection and reporting. we look to the danish presidency, given its nordic enthusiasm for transparency, to make progress in this area, during its time in office. at a national level, we welcome the fact that the third annual report has set out a matrix, seeking to note where information converges and where it does not. we would hope that that information is not used to reduce the information to the lowest common denominator; we should be working on best practice in this field. under the code of conduct, member states who grant a licence for an essentially identical transaction previously denied by another member state should consult that member state. we have never been clear about what 'identical transaction' means, so we welcome the third annual report's statement that 'there will be a broad interpretation of that phrase' – but we are still not clear what it means. until we are clear what it means, there will be considerable uncertainty about the 'no undercutting' clause. i think we should be asking whether these transactions have an identical consequence. if that is the case, then they are an identical transaction; and we would be intrigued to know if consultation did in fact take place on the recent saga over belgian exports to nepal. we have asked in any case that these discussions should not be bilateral but multilateral. therefore, we welcome indications that there will be multilateral discussions in cases where there is no agreement about whether a licence should be given. we would hope that will be expanded, although we recognise the difficulties it presents. we have also asked for greater efforts to be made on end-user certification, so we welcome the fact that the coarm working party is working towards this. we would like to see a europe-wide database established in order to assist smaller countries, who find end-user certification and follow-up particularly onerous. we have also asked for action to be taken on licensed production abroad; and here again we welcome the fact that there is progress on this in the third annual report. what we would like to see, however, is clarification on the terms of the code of conduct with regard to the export of arms into areas of instability. to what extent – particularly given areas of obvious instability, such as india and pakistan over kashmir, or the situation in the middle east – are member states interpreting that? finally, i would say that the third annual report is a huge step forward, but on closer inspection, much of it is about words and intentions rather than actions. my conclusion is this: we have come a long way, a lot has been done, but a lot more still needs to be done.
mr president, on the brok report, i remain sceptical of the need to formally institute a cfsp or an esdp. i prefer to retain a national foreign policy and work through nato. recent events over iraq have questioned the viability of the cfsp. nevertheless, i engage constructively with the eu reality, and i recognise the positive role javier solana has played, through the quartet in the middle east, in promoting long-term peace between israel and palestine. i also particularly support the role of russia as our strategic partner. nevertheless, i support the high representative's role as an intergovernmental envoy and do not want these vital areas made community-based. furthermore, i support us aims to rid the world of the danger posed by saddam hussein. i was responsible for the amendment raising the serious issue of organised crime in the balkans. a great advantage of eu enlargement in the long run is the inclusion of a country such as, for example, ukraine, whose aspirations to join the eu the commission is, sadly, ignoring. enlargement will bind these countries to the west, encourage economic prosperity and make a much more coordinated fight against crime and illegal immigration possible when organisations such as europol have a formal mandate. another of my interests is india, which is clearly amongst several potential great powers that are in the midst of internal transition. with economic liberalisation, india offers a growing market for eu businesses. a multicultural secular democracy in an otherwise troubled region, it is a source of stability with a no-first-use nuclear policy. it is a bulwark against the rise of extremism, in particular regional islamist tendencies such as those evidenced by recent attacks on christian and western targets in pakistan. these demonstrate an unchecked rise of religious fanaticism in that country, despite president musharraf's rhetoric. tragically, only yesterday 34 hindus were killed by an islamic terrorist bomb attack on a hindu temple in gujarat. i do not share all the brok report's objectives, but i remain an interested observer of this revolutionary change from the city state of some 2 000 years ago, to the 19th-century nation-state, and to the eu member state that we are witnessing today.
mr president, the aim of policy regarding iraq is not to avoid war at any price and it is not merely to see the return of weapons inspectors. it is to bring about the disarmament of saddam hussein's regime so that he is no longer a threat to us or indeed to his regional neighbours. we should have acted earlier. 11 september has now given us a heightened sensitivity to potential threats. if we let saddam carry on in the way that he is, then what message does this send to others of malign intent? my criticism of the british government is that it has left it far too late to fight the battle for public opinion and that its effort to build a coalition of political support among the europeans has clearly been poor. the example of iraq exposes yet again the frailty of common security policy in the european union and not surprisingly it confirms a widely differing outlook in interests of the member states of the european union. unlike mr poos, i do not see mr schröder as my spokesman. some members of this house have a reflex anti-americanism. instead, i had hoped that they would all be motivated by the need to enhance western security in a dangerous world. this requires strong and unassailable partnership with the united states. the brok report reveals a different set of motives. it is all about empowering the european union and boosting the role of the european commission in particular. i disagree with this. it has nothing to do with enhancing the security of our citizens. yesterday in warsaw nato foreign ministers welcomed proposals for a nato military response force. 20 000 troops will be used for short-term, high-intensity combat operations. this would complement other nato reaction forces already in existence and be a real incentive for nato allies other than just the americans and british to provide a small number of highly-trained and well-equipped forces ready to take on urgent tasks on a global basis. the european countries should forget the distractions of the european rapid reaction force separate from nato and concentrate instead on improving military capabilities for alliance operations.
mr president, it used to be said that war is too serious a business to be left to generals. i fear that today defence is too serious a business to be left to politicians. it is my fear that in an understandable but misguided wish for the european union to have its own defence capability, politicians are forging ahead with plans that are at best wishful thinking, and at worst dangerous. if the plan is to mirror the position of the emu in relationship to the eu, then i foresee that the esdp is going to inhibit nato from functioning efficiently and properly. i have read mr brok's report, and while there is much in it – especially in the original draft – that i find interesting, i fear its proposals will create more problems than they solve. let us be honest, europe's armed forces have a woefully depleted capability. europe's national governments have no coherence or agreement when it comes to military operations. none of the experience and sophistication that has been so painstakingly and carefully developed by nato on both the political and operational fronts is apparent in any of these proposals. without an increase in defence spending that would be unacceptable to our electors, europe's armed forces cannot mount and maintain any major operation outside the immediate area. nobody can deny that nato's record is what we should be seeking to protect, not to undermine. it is time that prime minister blair stopped dallying with other concepts. he should make it clear that britain and the other european states that are nato members have a future only within nato. defence policy is literally a matter of life and death: the death not of politicians, but of soldiers, sailors and airmen. they cannot be put at risk for the sake for closer european political integration.
madam president, the establishment of the icc marks a huge step forward in enforcing, at a global level, the principle of the rule of law which is fundamental to all liberal democracies. while ad hoc tribunals, such as those for rwanda and the former yugoslavia, are doing invaluable work, there is no substitute for a permanent court with the mandate and legitimacy to prosecute criminals wherever they may hide. we need only look at croatia's refusal to hand over general bobetko to the hague on the grounds that croatia was not the aggressor, to see the problems which can arise. in negotiations on the rome statute, europe bent over backwards to achieve an outcome which would accommodate american concerns. it is therefore a matter of deep regret to liberal democrats in this house that a number of countries have refused to sign the rome statute for the icc. these countries include iran, iraq, north korea and the united states. if we follow the old adage 'you will be judged by the company you keep', what message does the usa's presence in this group of refusniks send to the world? especially when taken in conjunction with america's disavowal of the kyoto protocol, the un convention on the rights of the child, and the biological weapons convention. it is bad enough that the usa is refusing to ratify the rome statute, but to try to strangle it at birth by reaching bilateral agreements with countries such as israel and romania in order to prevent its nationals being surrendered to the icc is terrible. un security council resolution 1422 also sets a dangerous precedent and should not be renewed next july. the european union should do its utmost to avoid undermining the icc before it has even begun its work. i therefore urge the president-in-office of the council to recognise the storm-clouds gathering over this issue and to pull the eu member states together under one umbrella. in an age of instability it is understandable that the eu wishes to avoid a breakdown in transatlantic relations, but any agreement with the usa must be supported by all eu countries and be consistent with the rome statute. another failure on our part to show unity would further undermine the eu's credibility in foreign affairs. we must get our own house in order. the countries wishing to join us, including the czech republic, lithuania and malta, must understand that the values the icc represents are fundamental to the european union, and that speedy ratification of the rome statute would prevent any delay in their accession. we urge romania not to ratify its bilateral agreement with the usa, and it is also important for the union to act together within the icc in terms of financial support and the appointment of judges, the prosecutor and staff. by acting together, europe can contribute greatly to making the icc work, and thereby reassure the usa that the court is serious and poses no threat to their law-abiding nationals. we must work to bring the americans on board at a later date. neither government must forget that we are accountable to the court of world public opinion. in conclusion, madam president, the icc is a symbol of the world for which we strive – a world in which human rights and international law will be upheld everywhere, and most of all, a world in which no shelter will be given to those guilty of the vilest crimes. let us work together to enable the court to get off to a flying start when it becomes operational in january. madam president, i too apologise to the president-in-office and the commissioner, but i must leave the debates, since i must chair a meeting of my party. (applause)
madam president, first of all i should like to put mr posselt right: the first person to ring chancellor schröder after his election was the british prime minister. like everybody else i regret the us position, but i have some questions for the council on the commission. firstly, are not agreements within article 98 point 2 consistent entirely with the letter and spirit of the icc statute? accordingly, if they are part of it, surely they cannot be said to undermine it? secondly, as many countries told the us that rather than reject the icc outright it should go along the article 98 point 2 road, is it not difficult to criticise them for doing so? thirdly, does not the us draft agreement state clearly that the parties expressed their intention to investigate and prosecute war crimes and, therefore, achieves the objective we wish to see? can we not therefore build on that position rather than try to take extreme positions in this particular debate?
the council. - madam president, i have to go. i would like to thank parliament for its very strong interest in securing and preserving the icc. the council of ministers also believes that the icc must be protected, its integrity must be preserved and it must be set in motion. and that is also the position of the danish presidency. we believe that on 30 september we must ensure that the eu countries work together and that the eu countries can also achieve the same result. the eu countries should also give the americans the same answer. it must be borne in mind that it is a bilateral task to give the americans an answer. it is not the commission which is answering the americans' questions. these are bilateral requests and we can therefore only make a recommendation as to how we recommend that they be answered. that is the only thing we can do, but i also assume that the recommendation will be followed. we have had - as mr oostlander said - a dialogue with the applicant countries and we are maintaining the dialogue with the applicant countries on this issue. i fully agree with mr torben lund that we must not have a make-up and hollow compromise. i think mr lund said something like that. because it's true enough that when the rain comes, the makeup will fall off, and that could mean the whole thing collapses. we believe that we must have a global court which will have an effective deterrent effect against the war crimes described in the court's statutes. in relation to the united states, it must be acknowledged that the united states is not a party to the court, but we will continue to try to include the united states in the court. we have discussed this with the united states on several occasions, but the united states is not involved. it's a fact of life here, and you can either blow it or try to get a system that means americans are part of an international legal order. and there, bilateral contacts can be used to draw up an agreement along the lines i have mentioned, which are not at all different from those mentioned by commissioner patten. there is no difference between the commission and the council on this issue at all. if one can make some phrases which mean that the americans are part of the international legal system without being a member of the icc, then it is preferable, however, to the americans being outside and without any legal system. and that is what the effort is all about. i want to make it clear that the american people do not want impunity either. nowhere in mr powell's letter does it say that they want impunity. it was never an american wish. they want to punish themselves, but they don't want these crimes to go unpunished. the point is, they want to punish themselves. and then you have to realise that the most important thing is that these people are punished, if we cannot get them punished in the hague. this is clear from the letter that mr powell has written to the individual countries and also from mr powell's remarks to the eu at our ministerial meeting with him. in this connection, we must remember the principle of subsidiarity, which applies to all icc members. there is a principle of subsidiarity. the court is only supposed to judge if a country does not do so itself. that's the principle. and that is to say, it could be worth something if the americans gave a guarantee to behave like the rest of us, namely to judge for themselves. i also expect denmark to be the judge. and that means i don't expect any danes to end up in the hague. i'm counting on us to judge for ourselves if we have war criminals. it must be the country's own job to say that a given matter is so serious that we should probably take care of it ourselves. the court of justice must be involved only if the country concerned cannot or will not. on that basis, i therefore have a reasonable hope that we can find a solution which means that the icc is unchallenged, that its integrity is preserved and that even more countries commit themselves to prosecuting war crimes than is the case today. that's the whole point. there is no compromise, which means that the court is weakened and that there is impunity for these crimes. it's not gonna happen.
mr president, i did not receive a clear answer from the council. are not article 98 agreements in line with the spirit and letter of the rome treaty?
mr president, i am probably going to be the only person here tonight with my position on this particular report. this report is viewed with extreme concern, regardless of what the rapporteur has said with regard to the united kingdom. it will have an adverse effect on our agriculture, our farmers and our fishermen. where i come from in northern ireland the rural community is falling apart. to put any added burden on it at this moment in time is quite wrong. i want to make it very clear from the outset that i, my delegation, and those i represent are totally in favour of improvement to the highest possible standards. i will support those higher standards. but i have a problem when we impose from on high purist-type ideas on those who cannot defend themselves. that is what i oppose. i am totally opposed to trying to impose this on off-road vehicles, be they vehicles that are used on farms, or the many other vehicles used in quarries or elsewhere. if we have to, let us set standards somewhere down the road longer-term. let us work towards that as technology develops, but to sit here and say that we can impose this from this european parliament is totally unacceptable. if you want to know why europe is unpopular in many areas of the european union, just look at this type of proposal. what do the people say? they say 'oh, there is big brother brussels telling us what to do again'. why do we not use common sense? why do we not use our own initiative and not have the european union hurting its own citizens while the rest of the world merely goes on its way destroying the environment? we have seen from johannesburg and from kyoto and elsewhere that they do not pay a jot of attention to what we say. i understand that off-road vehicles account for about 8.5% of the diesel vehicles in the european union. commissioner, it is within your and the council's powers to at least take a balanced position on this and to achieve the aim over a longer term so that we do not hurt a lot of people on the way. that is what i support. i will certainly be voting against this recommendation tomorrow. i, along with the people i represent, will take great delight in voting against it. i hope it is defeated because then in the longer term you will come back with a proposal that represents the common sense view of everyone in this european union, and not just those with purist ideals who do not have to face the consequences of imposing their ideals on others.
rapporteur. – mr president, i have a few points to make, but i can see that the debate has hardly engendered rapt enthusiasm among the packed ranks of members so i will be as brief as possible and let everybody get away for their dinner. i wish to begin by thanking the commissioner and all those who have taken an interest in the report for being here this evening. it might be a minor subject, but it is very important to those involved in the recreational boating industry and those many thousands of people across europe who also indulge their hobby of boating. many of the problems apparent in the legislation at first reading have been substantially resolved by the council at second reading. most of the retrospective elements in the proposal at first reading have now been removed and i can broadly support the commission's proposals at second reading, albeit with a few riders. i tabled a few amendments for the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, some of which were accepted. most of the technical amendments we put forward were accepted. i shall just run through a few of the problems that i still see with the legislation. i continue to have doubts about the effectiveness of a regulatory committee, particularly one empowered to alter quite important items of the directive such as froude numbers. the committee supported my recommendations on that and the amendments are up for vote tomorrow. i continue to believe that craft built for users' own use should be exempted for five years, provided they are not placed on the market. this directive was introduced under single-market legislation and it is self-evident that if those craft are not intended to be placed on the market, then they cannot affect the single market. the issue of in-use compliance testing is a particularly thorny one. i understand that at some stage the commission will be coming back with proposals on that. i hope it will consider that issue very carefully. the last thing we want is an extremely bureaucratic system imposed on the boat owners and users of europe. it needs to be very simple and effective and, above all, free of charge to those who have boats at the moment. finally, i should like to tell our german colleagues that a number of amendments – i call them the bodensee amendments because they are the result of lobbying from the lake constance authorities – have been tabled. there are broadly two categories of amendments. firstly, those tabled to allow member states to set their own limits in particular local circumstances. i am not usually against member states derogating from european regulations, but if we are going to produce a directive whose specific purpose is to permit a single market across europe and then introduce specific exemptions into the directive, that would defeat the whole point of having it in the first place. secondly, i have a particular problem with the so-called table 1a amendment, again based on the bodensee limits, but even stricter. again it would be a barrier to trade. however, i would say to our colleagues on the bodensee that, if there is a problem in this particular stretch of water, then, firstly, there is no evidence that it is caused by recreational craft and, secondly, that if there is a difficulty it can be solved by local measures in the area of lake constance. speed and navigational limits could be imposed, and i entirely support their right to do that. but do not saddle the rest of europe with unenforceable limits just to solve a particular problem that the german and austrian authorities might have. i have looked quite extensively at the limits proposed in that table with boat-users' representatives and representatives from industry, and there are no commercially available engines on the market that meet those limits at the moment. obviously technology could be developed further, but it would require the use of catalytic converter technology, which is extremely difficult in a marine environment. by all means let the research go ahead, let us look at the issue again in a few years, but please do not try and saddle the rest of europe with unenforceable limits. all that would happen – because there are no retrospective elements – is that, as has happened on the bodensee, the whole of europe would become pretty much a museum for old engines. the companies making new engines go out of business, but those refurbishing old engines continue to make a lot of money. the engine could be old, polluting or spilling oil into the water but, as long as it was in existence at the time the limits were introduced, it would be perfectly legal. it is completely self-defeating to impose unachievable limits. i would strongly recommend the house to vote against those amendments tomorrow.
mr president, i should like to take commissioner bolkestein back to the last part-session here when we discussed sales promotion. he may remember that i complimented him because he had written an article in a journal complimenting parliament on rescuing the internal market. it is slightly disappointing therefore to find him back here at the following part-session adopting such a cautious approach on such a fundamental single market issue. in this case we are not talking about the single european market. we are talking about global markets and about the freedom of consumers to be able to benefit from lower prices for identical goods that are placed on the market, quite legitimately, outside the european union, and which are then imported. i want to remind him – and he cautiously skirted around this in his answer – that we are discussing an archaic piece of legislation. the trademarks directive in its original form was certainly introduced to protect trademarks and to secure consumer confidence that they would know what they were buying. but subsequently, in cases before the court of justice, it is now being further elaborated into a means whereby trademark owners can actually protect their brand, or supposedly protect their brand and their authorised distribution systems, by essentially keeping prices higher artificially. he asked us quite rightly to say what has changed. i shall tell him what has changed. the first thing is that consumers are getting increasingly irritable about what they see as the failure to act on what ought to be a fundamental right. that consumer pressure was quite rightly cited by his colleague, mr monti, when we had a complete and total reform of the legislation relating to the selling and servicing of motor cars. what has that done? it has opened up the distribution system across the european union. essentially, cars will be available across borders much more freely than they were before and prices which differ from one market to another will clearly converge. so why should this be any different? i have to disagree with my colleague mrs fourtou. it is not a question of counterfeiting or other spurious issues. surely the reason we have so many of these counterfeit brands is because the genuine brands are prevented from being sold at the price that consumers want to buy. it is a circular argument. i hope that in the july report he has commissioned he will have the facts available and that he will be able to meet the deadline of the end of december that we asked him to meet. this needs to happen so that we can come up with a sensible balanced view, not looking to the past, looking at all the evidence, to the benefit of consumers. we need to continue together with the commissioner the task of creating a true single market for consumers. i hope he will give us an assurance this evening that he is prepared to move from his overly cautious approach and join with us in the crusade to give consumers across europe a better deal.
european ombudsman. – madam president, on 1 september 1995 the ombudsman's office started work. from then until 15 september 2002, the office received 10 535 complaints, of which 10 437 have been examined. we carried out 1 385 full inquiries of which 19 were own-initiative inquiries. 1 149 of these cases involved the commission, 137 cases involved the european parliament's administration, 53 concerned the council and 12 concerned the european investment bank. looking at the results, 345 cases were settled by the institution concerned, after the ombudsman had informed it of the complaint. in 206 cases a critical remark was made, in 48 cases the inquiry resulted in a draft accommodation or proposal for a friendly solution, most of it achieved a success for the complainant. in six cases a special report was made to the european parliament, in four of these cases parliament upheld the ombudsman's recommendations, and two other cases are still pending. in 659 cases, a thorough inquiry resulted in the ombudsman finding that there was no maladministration in the activities of the institution. when cases are outside the ombudsman's mandate, we always try to advise the complainant of another body that could deal with the matter. we advised the complainant to go to the national or regional ombudsman, or petition a national or regional parliament in 2 293 cases, to petition the european parliament in 884 cases and to address the commission in 913 cases. over the years, critical voices have been raised, saying that the ombudsman is not sufficiently known, and that the results for citizens are inadequate because the institutions neither cooperate nor respect their obligation of good administration. some critical voices have also suggested that the mandate is too narrow and that the european ombudsman should deal with complaints concerning community law wherever it is applied in the union or even be a people's tribune, always ready to condemn injustice wherever it occurs. the european ombudsman is certainly one of the best-known ombudsman institutions in the world. our information campaign is in 12 languages and addresses 350 million citizens and residents of 15 member states. we have visited every member state, issued press releases, published information brochures and given many lectures and seminars to publicise the work. one of the most effective ways of communicating with such a vast audience is via the internet. around 2 500 websites contain an active link to the european ombudsman's site and nearly 42 % of complaints are now submitted electronically, many of them using the on line complaint form. the steady increase in the number of complaints is the best proof that the ombudsman is better and better known. almost 200 new complaints arrive each month, nearly a 300% increase compared with the first full year of cooperation in 1996. the results of the ombudsman's work for european citizens are also impressive. as well as obtaining redress in individual cases, we have achieved major improvements in the general functioning of the institution. three of these call for special mention. first we persuaded the institutions and some bodies, including the european central bank and europol, to improve public access to their documents. second, an own-initiative inquiry led 17 institutions and bodies to adopt codes of good administration, based on a draft suggested by us. following a special report, the european parliament last year adopted a revised version of the code of good administrative behaviour. we have distributed this improved version of the code widely throughout the institutions and to european citizens, whose right to good administration the code embodies. as instructed by the european parliament, we apply the code in deciding whether or not there is maladministration. the third achievement concerns the charter of fundamental rights, proclaimed in nice in december 2000. the ombudsman proposed the idea that the charter should include the right to good administration. this was included as article 41 of the charter. the ombudsman has also promoted the full and correct application of the charter. the union institutions solemnly proclaim the charter to the citizens as embodying their fundamental rights. the ombudsman therefore regards the institutions' failure to respect those rights in their own activities as maladministration. furthermore, the ombudsman's proposals to the european convention include the idea that the charter should be legally binding wherever community law applies. contrary to what the critical voices say, the institutions and bodies deserve credit for their mainly cooperative attitude to the ombudsman. they have usually responded properly, fully and promptly to the ombudsman's inquiries and have been willing to accept the ombudsman's friendly solutions and draft recommendations. problems have arisen in only a small number of cases. in one case concerning access to information, the commission rejected the ombudsman's draft recommendation and has failed to act on a resolution of the european parliament supporting the ombudsman. i regret that this case seems to be part of a more general trend towards the misuse of data protection rules to halt or reverse the commitment to openness. most of the institutions and bodies have also adopted a code of good administrative behaviour. i still cannot understand why parliament's resolution of september 2001, calling for a european administrative law, has not been followed up. to me, a uniform set of rules applying to all the institutions and bodies could only enhance the union's relations with its citizens. i also regret that the staff regulations maintain the outdated requirement of prior approval of publications by civil servants. i acknowledge that the european ombudsman's mandate is limited. i have consistently maintained the view that a network of ombudsmen and petitions committees is needed to supervise the application of community law by the member states. we have developed such a network, to share information, give advice and ensure that complaints go to the most competent body. further development of the network could help the commission, as the guardian of the treaties, to focus its resources on the most important issues of principle. the citizens can never fully believe in the european union unless community law is respected at all levels of the union. in future community law, the member states could include the charter of fundamental rights. the network of ombudsmen in the member states could also play an essential role in supervising the application of the charter. the european ombudsman would be ready to accept responsibility for referring fundamental cases to the court of justice, if no solution could be found in a normal ombudsman investigation. i do hope that parliament's representatives in the on the european convention will support these proposals. finally, i would like to express my thanks to all the institutions and bodies, above all to the european commission, which has cooperated effectively with the ombudsman to the benefit of the european citizens. i would also like to thank the european parliament and its committee on petitions for their good advice and support. special thanks are due to the chairman of the committee, mr gemelli and the rapporteur dealing with the ombudsman's annual report this year, mr wyn. i thank you. i welcome their proposals for closer cooperation between the ombudsman and the committee on petitions, which i hope will lead to a concrete outcome to benefit the european citizens.
rapporteur. – madam president, it is my pleasure in this report to endorse the annual report for 2001 submitted by the ombudsman, which is a comprehensive and detailed overview of the activities conducted during the year and in particular of all the various cases processed. after seven years, the role of the european ombudsman – to enhance openness and democratic accountability in the decision-making and administration of the european union – is well established. by tackling maladministration in the community institutions and bodies, the role of the ombudsman has made an essential contribution towards a union in which decisions are truly taken as openly as possible and as closely as possible to the citizen. the fact that the number of direct complaints is still on the increase again in 2001 clearly demonstrates that the ombudsman is reaching more and more people in the course of his activities. despite this steady rise in complaints, the report welcomes the reduction in time taken to deal with each case. the present ombudsman, mr söderman, from whom we have already heard, has become a well recognised and respected figure in the european union and his receipt of awards such as the alexis de tocqueville prize further demonstrates this. he has even paid a visit to my own country, wales, showing a commitment and dedication through his work to visit some of the most important places in the world. during his time in office he has emphasised the rule of law, taking fundamental rights seriously and applying basic principles of good administration, such as transparency, responsibility and respect for citizens. this has been done in no less than 15 member states and through the medium of 12 community languages. he deserves his retirement! the report very much welcomes the fact that the european authorities are increasingly taking action to settle a complaint once they are made aware of the problem in question and that, in other cases, a friendly solution has been arrived at. the ombudsman must also be commended for his efforts to inform more citizens of their right to complain. this is a matter that the committee on petitions is continually aware of. this means that the ombudsman's work has to include the continuous updating of his website with a view to making his role known to an ever-wider public and to establishing networks of links with regional ombudsmen. in this regard the ombudsman is faced with, on the one hand, wanting to inform as many people as possible of this right to complain and, on the other, remembering that the remit of his office is limited to the community institutions. we in parliament have a role to play here, in ensuring that we remain aware of the ombudsman's role and informing citizens of this right. the work of the ombudsman, however, has not been without obstacles during this period. in the field of good administration the european parliament adopted unanimously last september the european union code on good administrative behaviour and called on the commission to propose a regulation on the subject. i welcome the ombudsman's decision to apply the principles set out in this code in his activities. i should like to express my disappointment here, however, that the commission has yet to act on this important request. the report calls for parliament to consider drawing up a legislative initiative report on the basis of this model code under article 192 and rule 59. in relation to openness and good administrative behaviour this report notes attempts by certain institutions to use recently adopted data protection rules to impose confidentiality on their activities. it must be made clear that data protection rules are mainly concerned with the protection of private and family life and certainly should not in any way restrict the information available to citizens on the activities of the european union institutions. with regard to the infringement procedure, the article 226 procedure, in which the commission investigates complaints about infringements of community law by member states, which continues to be the subject of complaints to the ombudsman – and this is something with which we in the committee on petitions are all too familiar – the report finds that, despite recent improvements, this procedure is secretive, and that the complainant is still not recognised as a participant. delays occur because the commission has too many cases to deal with. the ombudsman was on the record for criticising the commission's recent handling of the greek environmental complaint, in this case involving infringements of community environmental law by the greek authorities; enquiries revealed a catalogue of information being concealed, the wrong directive being applied and a failure to ensure that the case was dealt with impartially. whilst we appreciate the hard work carried out by the commission, the ombudsman and our committee on petitions depend on their investigations being effective, and we must be confident that such cases are being handled correctly. finally, i welcome the offer by the ombudsman to develop joint activities with the committee on petitions with a view to reinforcing the contacts and exchange of experience with national and regional ombudsmen and committees on petitions. closer cooperation between the european ombudsman's office and the committee on petitions is vital. our work is very much interlinked and we were provided with excellent examples of how this could be achieved when the ombudsman addressed the committee on petitions in april. i commend the report to the house and wish the ombudsman a very happy retirement.
commission. – madam president, the annual debate on the activities of the committee on petitions and the european ombudsman focuses our attention on the relationship between citizens and the institutions. this relationship is fundamental, and forms the basis for all our policies since ultimately they are addressed to the citizens. it is therefore important that once a year parliament, the ombudsman and the commission take stock of how this dimension is taken into account in their regular and day-to-day activities. however, this year the debate is different for two reasons. firstly, work on the convention is in full swing. it will map out the future of europe, and both the committee on petitions and the ombudsman have referred to that body the issue of citizens' rights through proposals concerning, on the one hand, the right to petition, and on the other, the charter of fundamental rights, an administrative law and means of appeal. secondly, the ombudsman, mr söderman, has told parliament that he wishes to stand down at the end of march 2003, so this is the last time that he will present an annual report to this assembly. allow me to take this opportunity to thank mr söderman, on behalf of the commission, for the work he has carried out since he was appointed in july 1995. as the first eu ombudsman, he has played a pioneering role, helping to bring about a real change of culture within the commission, and i am sure that this also applies to the other institutions and bodies. in addition, his own-initiative enquiries have also had direct consequences, and resulted in positive administrative reforms. i should like to mention some of them. firstly, the code of good administrative conduct which, it should be stressed, was the result of an initiative by parliament when adopting the perry report on the activities of the committee on petitions in 1996. then in the recruitment sphere, there have been firstly the removal, in two stages, of the age limit in competitions and, secondly, the ombudsman's success in obtaining the right for any participant in a competition to have access to their corrected papers. both these things required quite a change in administration and tradition in the institutions. lastly, his efforts have prompted us to organise more structured relations between complainants and the commission in infringement procedures. these are the areas in which the institutional relations between the ombudsman – often supported by parliament, moreover – and the commission have led to genuine progress. i should like to return briefly to the code of good administrative conduct, because the reports by mr wyn and mr koukiadis raise this matter. it should be pointed out that from the outset the commission was receptive to parliament and the ombudsman. it has drawn up various drafts starting in 1998 and now under the present commission it has drawn up and adopted its own code of conduct aimed at the citizen, binding in nature and corresponding to many of the points in the code of conduct drawn up by the ombudsman himself. this important work led the commission to amend its own rules of procedure in october 2000. not all the institutions have acted in that way. of course there remain certain differences compared with the latter code, as the ombudsman, mr perry, and now mr koukiadis and mr wyn have pointed out. be that as it may, the commission code represents real progress. of all the codes adopted by the institutions, it is the one which corresponds the most closely to the ombudsman's proposals. it entered into force in november 2000, and a first evaluation report has now been finalised. it will be circulated shortly. the commission is well aware that, despite all its efforts, the european ombudsman would like to go further. he has in fact referred this issue to parliament in a special report, with the result that a year ago parliament expressed itself in favour of a single harmonised code for all the institutions. this is still the position today of your rapporteurs, mr wyn and mr koukiadis the commission realises that the situation is not totally satisfactory at present since european citizens are confronted with different standards of good administration depending on which institutions they contact. however, the commission is not in a position at present to launch a legislative initiative. the first report on the application of the commission code covers only a few cases, as you will no doubt see, and we know nothing about how the other codes are being implemented by the other institutions. in addition, as i have just mentioned, discussions are in progress at the convention concerning the adoption of an administrative law, and we should undoubtedly wait for its results. i notice in this connection that the proposal made by the ombudsman to the convention provides for the adoption of such a law within one year of the entry into force of the treaty. it seems to me that this gives us some room for manoeuvre. lastly, while it is true that an interinstitutional approach aimed at the adoption of a single code and a single law is no doubt useful, the fact remains that the situation in each institution is specific, and a degree of flexibility is called for. i will not go through all the points raised in the reports by mr koukiadis and mr wyn, but i must say that relations between the ombudsman and the commission, although cordial and very productive, may from time to time give rise to disagreements in the context of institutional relations. while the commission pays tribute to the work accomplished by the ombudsman, the fact remains that there are still differences of opinion on certain points. firstly, there is the question of the application of the relevant provisions of regulation 1049/2001 to infringement dossiers and how to interpret the data protection directive. however, i will not repeat here the position expressed on behalf of the commission by mr bolkestein on this latter point or the opinion expressed by the commission concerning the proposal to amend the rules governing the ombudsman. both parliament and the ombudsman are well aware of these positions. nevertheless, i should like to return for a moment to the report by mr koukiadis on the deliberations of the committee on petitions. the commission shares the rapporteur's main concern of organising more efficient working and cooperation conditions between the commission and the committee on petitions. incidentally, as the president and some members will know, i have personal experience of very well-organised cooperation with the committee in a specific case. returning to the text, the prospect of enlargement should prompt us to improve our procedure still further and, in this connection, i would reiterate the commission's willingness to debate a review of the interinstitutional agreement with the council and parliament on the examination of petitions. the commission also agrees with the rapporteur about cooperation with the national parliaments and with the national administrations as part of the efforts to find solutions to problems raised by petitions. allow me to conclude with a few points which should be made at this time of institutional deliberations. one of the objectives of the convention is to bring the institutions closer to citizens. in this context, there can be no question of reducing the possibilities with regard to exercising the right of petition, but rather of consolidating them or providing a framework for them. in addition, it is clearly very important, as part of the clarification of the institutional system, that citizens should be aware of the various means of appeal available to them at the various levels of the institutional machinery. the commission therefore welcomes the contributions by the ombudsman and the committee on petitions, and undertakes to examine them constructively. moreover, by adopting a constructive dialogue approach, the commission, the ombudsman and the european parliament will make the best possible contribution to defending the interests of european citizens.
madam president, we are debating the last annual report which will be presented to the parliament by jacob söderman. today is not the time when we say farewell, but it is a moment to appreciate the work that jacob söderman has carried out and his efforts on our behalf and very much in the interests of europe. the european union institutions are inevitably a large and complex bureaucracy and, of course, there are going to be mistakes and administrative errors. the institutions seek to minimise those errors, and they must be prepared to listen to advice on how to do that. the ombudsman is there, as we all know, to act as the arbiter in a fair and objective way. i would say to the commission that they must think long and hard before they reject any of the ombudsman's findings. i been appalled to come across examples where the commission has blatantly rejected the ombudsman's findings. without going into details, i have a letter here from mr prodi to one of my colleagues. the ombudsman found there had been maladministration and the commission flatly refused to reverse the situation. mr prodi writes: 'i am convinced that the solution we offer is the most suitable in the light of the specificity of the case and i am disappointed that your constituent does not see it this way'. it is hardly surprising that the mep concerned has written to me in the committee on petitions to say that the reply from the president of the commission is preposterous. it is impossible to defend that before the citizens. i am sorry in some sense that it is commissioner liikanen who is here this morning. i always appreciate his words and certainly acknowledge the good relations between his department and the committee on petitions. i was very heartened to hear his words this morning about the commission's preparedness to look at the review of the inter-institutional agreement. the time for that is certainly getting very close. i want to make stronger points about the code of administrative behaviour. last december, commissioner kinnock promised to this house that we would receive a review on the workings of the voluntary code. we are yet to see it, although we have heard it will come in the near future. to my mind, it is already a year late. a code has to be binding, it must not be a voluntary code; and it also needs to be consistent. the citizens of europe do not distinguish between the institutions of the european union. to them, brussels is one place, strasbourg is somewhere else. they want a consistent code across each of the institutions. i have analysed the voluntary code of the commission and compared it with that proposed by the ombudsman. in over 70% of the articles, there are differences. some differences may be small, but some are very big indeed. the commission code does not explicitly recognise the need for courtesy. there is no provision for an apology or correction of mistakes. the commission code is very weak on access to documents and on discrimination: it does not recognise that discrimination can be based on language, membership of a national minority or even appearance. the commission's code says staff shall not be guided by personal interest. the ombudsman's code says the official shall not take part in a decision in which he or she or any close member of his or her family has a financial interest. i would urge the commission to be more relaxed about it, to listen to the code that is proposed by the ombudsman and endorsed by this house, and to accept it. it should be in the forefront, it should not say: 'well, none of the other institutions has done so'. i know that is the case. nevertheless, the commission is in the driving seat here and should be much readier to accept the advice, coming from friends, which will enable it to face the citizens of europe much more confidently. i am delighted to say that the committee on petitions had a recent meeting with the danish presidency at which the presidency expressed its willingness to look at the new interinstitutional agreement. we have the communication from the commission on complaints and petitions, and we now have mr liikanen's proposals. the time has come for us to have that new interinstitutional agreement.
madam president, i would like to thank both rapporteurs for their conscientious work and also the ombudsman and his team for their hard work in ensuring that the rights of citizens and residents are upheld and good practice is pursued, if not always attained. we also appreciate very much the work of the ombudsman in developing the network of ombudsmen across the whole of europe and in other countries. this leaves a very sound basis for his successor and my group would also like to add their thanks for his work. i should like to draw attention to conclusions 9 and 16 of mr wyn's report on the work of the ombudsman, and to the lack of progress in one particular case. some people have already referred to this and i was parliament's rapporteur. this case raises serious issues of what happens when parliament upholds the ombudsman's view on a case, this one relating to data protection and access to information, and the commission does not agree. it raises questions of institutional balance, as well as issues surrounding the application of data protection itself. the lack of a conclusion so far certainly means that the complainant is left in limbo, not quite understanding what it means when elected members can come to one conclusion and the commission another. what is the way out? we need to look at that as well as to consider the future role of the ombudsman and the committee on petitions, especially with the development of competences in the field of justice and home affairs and also with enlargement. while we are looking at the role of the institutions i would also like to reinforce conclusion 11 of mr koukiadis's report which mentions the council's 'lack of enthusiasm' – very tactfully put i felt – with regard to the committee on petitions. mrs thors has already mentioned issues about the mutual recognition of qualifications. one of the other big problems we have in making progress in certain cases, especially those relating to the environment – such as waste disposal, water quality, etc. – are the delays at national level in providing information to the commission. despite some of the criticisms of the commission, at the level of the committee on petitions we generally work very well together. that brings us to conclusion 18 of the koukiadis report, which has already been mentioned by mrs gonzález álvarez and talks about the possibility of introducing interim protective measures which suspend actions. we do not say this lightly, but sometimes we get the impression that delaying tactics are put in place by member states and authorities to allow projects to go past the stage where they might be halted. that needs very serious consideration in future.
commission. – madam president, the commission appreciates and welcomes the strong interest the european parliament takes in eu-acp negotiations of economic partnership agreements, as witnessed by the report of the development committee by mrs boudjenah and the opinion of the industry and trade committee by mr titley. i would like to thank the honourable members for their work. the european parliament has also shown an impeccable sense of timing by tabling this report just before the launch of the eu-acp negotiations on the economic partnership agreements tomorrow. from the commission's point of view, the main strength of the report is that it puts acp development at the centre of the epa negotiations. this is exactly where the commission wants it to be. epas shall be a tool for the smooth and gradual integration of acp countries into the world economy, thereby promoting sustainable development and contributing to poverty eradication. to this end, the acp and the eu have decided to negotiate in a spirit of partnership the progressive removal of barriers to trade between them. the resulting agreements will extend to all areas relevant to trade, notably non-direct measures. the epas shall also be wto-compatible and build on acp regional integration initiatives as key instruments for acp integration into the world economy. this is in a nutshell what was laid down in the acp-eu agreement signed in cotonou in june 2000, an agreement endorsed by the european parliament. in cotonou the acp and the eu agreed to enter into epa negotiations and laid down objectives, principles and modalities for these agreements. some of the questions raised in the report had thus already been settled at the time of the cotonou agreement. the commission refers, for instance, to those parts of the report which call for the continuation of non-reciprocal trade preferences for the acp. non-reciprocal preferences have not achieved, and cannot achieve, the closer integration of acp countries into the world economy. a more comprehensive approach is needed aimed at enhancing acp supply and trading capacities and the capacity to attract investment. this was the joint conclusion of the acp states and the eu when negotiating the cotonou agreement, and that is why they agreed to conclude wto-compatible trading arrangements to progressively remove all barriers to trade between them. trade liberalisation on both sides is an indispensable element of this undertaking, provided it is not pursued blindly but flexibly. in short, our common objective is to use trade for development. likewise, retention, consolidation and possible extension of the commodity protocols is not in line with the cotonou agreement, which says we will review these protocols. the commission is of the opinion that we should not prejudge this review. lastly, any decisions on alternatives to the epas under the cotonou agreement are only to be taken in 2004 should the epa negotiations show that epas do not offer the appropriate solutions for specific cases in the countries concerned. the commission agrees with the need, highlighted in the report, for analysis and assessment of the impact of the epas on sustainable development. this will require a thorough and sustained effort throughout the negotiations. the sustainability impact assessment foreseen in parallel with the negotiations is designed to achieve this goal. it will enable systematic analysis of the impact of the different policy options considered in the course of the epa negotiations as they evolve, and will thus inform negotiators' choice. its ongoing results should keep the negotiations on track towards genuine sustainable development. the commission also supports acp countries and regions that want to undertake their own studies. we have ensured that considerable amounts of money are available under national, regional, and all other acp programmes not only for studies but for trade-related assistance and capacity-building more widely. meanwhile the commission is going ahead with the sustainability impact assessment and we will do so in full transparency with regard to the european parliament.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy. – mr president, the committee on industry in general welcomes the commission's communication because the epas between the eu and different regions could reinforce economic cooperation between acp countries and encourage their economic development. therefore, we particularly welcome the commission's proposal that treatment granted to the eu be extended to all acp-epa partners before trade liberalisation with the eu. this is particularly important. it is not going to be easy, and some of the reasons for that have been outlined. we have to proceed with caution and with flexibility. we must not put pressure on acp countries to enter into negotiations they do not feel to be appropriate, and we must safeguard and respect the rights of ldcs to non-reciprocal trade preferences. we need, however, in particular, to encourage technical assistance to achieve institution building, which will allow balanced results. we need to ensure that we take into account the capacity constraints of the acp countries and seek to build those as part of the process. we need to bear in mind that the abolition of tariffs could well cause a loss of public resources and, therefore, create budgetary problems. we must not lose sight of our objective in relation to the cotonou agreement of poverty eradication and sustainable development. thus the committee on industry's position is very much to support the commission's point of view and welcomes the fact that negotiations are going to start tomorrow but to ask that we proceed with sensitivity and caution.
mr president, i should like to congratulate mrs boudjenah on this timely report. we in the pse group strongly align ourselves with her sentiments in relation to trade being a means to an end, not an end in itself. the end is development of the acp economies and poverty reduction for the poorest people in those countries. one test of the commission – i think mr liikanen was disingenuous in what he said this morning – is whether there is a genuine openness to alternatives. it was never part of the cotonou agreement that the proposal for alternatives to epas would be delayed to 2004 and i hope he will withdraw that point when the debate is closed. we also want to record strong agreement for what mrs boudjenah puts forward in terms of the need to advance the impact assessments so that we can genuinely see the impact of these negotiations. the commission again, in relation to the sugar industry, and the 'everything but arms' proposals of a year and two years ago has not got a particularly strong track record in relation to impartial impact assessments and trade matters. i have been selected as the nominee to chair the trade committee in the joint parliament assembly between the eu and the acp. we are very much looking forward to playing an active role in overseeing these trade negotiations and promoting their transparency. the commissioner will agree that the cape town declaration agreed by the joint parliamentary assembly earlier this year gives us a strong opportunity for parliamentarians and civil society more generally to play a far greater role in the discussions that these crucial negotiations entail. we want to see cap reform being discussed. the commission is wrong there. there are difficult issues for the acp that the commission forced on to the agenda. there are difficult issues for the european side as well and what right do we have to prevent that being discussed? lastly, in relation to acp-wide issues, the acp want to establish some principles as a complete block. they do not want to be subject to divide and rule and only to discuss issues with their regional groups. if we believe in partnership in development then we should respect their wishes.
mr president, i warmly welcome this report and congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work, particularly in expressing so clearly parliament's understanding that trade is only a means to an end, and that end is sustainable development. all too often, in these institutions, there is a massive incoherence between european trade policy on one hand, and european development policy on the other, with trade concerns all too often undermining development objectives. with this report parliament sends a very clear message that development concerns must come first. there are some key points i would like to underline. first, capacity. it simply beggars belief that some of the poorest acp countries can possibly have the financial and technical resources to pursue the wto's doha agenda, the gatt's agenda, the nepad or ftaa agenda, at the same time as the eu economic partnerships agenda; and still at the same time still somehow pursue their own regional integration processes. yet it is these very regional integration processes that the commission says that it wants to support. we must get away from externally imposed timetables of which countries need to adopt new arrangements, and instead allow them to adapt at their own speed, according to their own development needs, just as the industrialised countries were able to do. finally, i cannot over-emphasise the importance of waiting until we have the results of the impact assessments of these proposed economic arrangements. these must be conducted with the full participation of local people and we must have the results of those impact assessments before negotiations start. if necessary, we should be prepared to delay negotiations until we have them. only in that way, can we be sure that the initiative will genuinely contribute to poverty eradication and sustainable development.
mr president, this report is on the face of it well-intentioned and recognises the need for acp countries to export their goods. there are many fine phrases such as: 'worldwide inequality must be remedied'. but, as ever, it is all hot air and naïve idealism. in fact, what really strikes me here is the large element of sheer hypocrisy. agricultural produce is a large element of acp exports. yet, despite all the fine words, the tariff regime makes the eu a difficult market-place, with 16% being a fairly typical entry price for acp goods. it also means that consumers pay far too much for food here. of course, the solution to all of this – real reform of the common agricultural policy – is nothing more than a mirage. how can we even talk about partnership agreements with these countries, given the continuing scandal of the european union fisheries deals? this parliament continues to give its overwhelming endorsement to deals that involve huge sums of taxpayers' money going straight to corrupt african regimes: up to eur 1.4 billion in the last few years alone, and little or none of it going to the local communities that need it. as a result of all of this, hundreds of indigenous black african fisherman are continuing to die. i have raised this point here before, and i am met with aggression from the spanish and with indifference from commissioner fischler. to satisfy the greed of large companies in europe, this place turns a blind eye to a humanitarian disaster. i do not expect many people here to agree with my view about political integration in the european union. on this one area of fisheries deals, please surprise me and let us see some reform and let us give these struggling african coastal communities some sort of chance. since 1994 there has been repeated documentary evidence about all this and it is high time that something was done.
mr president, the british conservatives support the thrust of this directive. new engines with lean-burn or common-rail technology need low-sulphur fuels as a technology enabler to allow advanced catalytic converters to function. it is a mistake, however, to extend this to non-road mobile machinery, for example, tractors and construction equipment. these are not fitted with catalytic converters yet, and so do not need this type of fuel. in fact, more co2 will be produced at the refinery by additional processing. fuel costs will go up by at least 10% – another burden for hard-pressed farmers to carry at a time when they can least take it. we are very disappointed that amendments 10 and 13 were passed by parliament.
mr president, mr posselt may have plenty of time, but i have to leave as i am booked on a flight departing from frankfurt at 3.30 p.m. tomorrow i shall be speaking at a conference in greece on this very subject. i apologise in advance to the commissioner, and i will be much briefer than the chairman of our committee might have been, had he been here. normally our colleague mrs junker would have replaced him, but she has been unwell and in hospital. i am sure the house would wish her well and a speedy recovery. (applause) i must declare an interest as a director of a television company that will certainly be involved in digital broadcasting and the broadband communication field – though probably long after i have ceased to have any connection with it. would the commissioner like me to repeat mr rocard's question? and will the commissioner be replying to the debate as a whole at the end?
mr president, i would like to say a few words about the reason for this question and for its urgency. essentially it concerns the pace at which we will be able to open a full and proper debate on the standards for a single mhp, were we to have one. the commissioner will, i think, be saying in his reply today when the necessary standards are going to be introduced and published. the reason for the urgency is that this subject also relates very much to the ongoing debate about media concentration and to development in the field of broadband communications, particularly in the light of what is happening in television and broadcasting at the moment. in my own member state we have had ambitious plans, aiming to have the most competitive broadband system in the developed world by 2005. however, there have been stumbles along the way to the intended creation of a real competitive market for digital broadcasting and towards a measured advanced analogue switch-off. that serves as a warning to many of us – certainly those in the committee on culture, which is unanimous in the view that i am expressing – that the consumer and the citizen need to benefit from an open and wide debate, taking some account of the problems we have had in past attempts at regulation, as well as of those that we face now. there need to be clear markers on the ways in which a system of non-discriminatory interconnection and oversight of the gateways of broadband broadcasting and other systems can be operated in the public interest. i am painfully aware of the fact that one of the first attempts to set standards for early satellite broadcasting came adrift because the most powerful broadcasters in the field at the time – and they are still there today, but stronger and more powerful – deliberately decided to bypass these standards and to go their own way. with effective use of the market and less advanced technology, they were able effectively to end that first attempt at common standards. we do not want to make that mistake again, and i believe that in this situation we want to know how we are proceeding. i would ask the commissioner to indicate how the european union as a whole can take an active role, so that the operators of apis are encouraged and helped to come together. he must know of the suspicions in this regard and precisely where they originate. the apis are likely to be repeating in some ways what happened in the debate about conditional access and the gateways for satellite broadcasting. many – particularly in my country would say that you do not need to have a single mandated standard, and that it would be better to encourage the apis to come together. for the sceptics who believe that it would be very much against some of their interests to do so, and it has to be acknowledged that we would then be gambling everything on a strategy which some of the big operators, once again, would not want to cooperate with. how would the commissioner square the need for competition that guarantees plurality with the technical advances which – according to those who operate it and profit by it – will come from the unregulated market? i do not believe that we can take this matter further without a proper consideration not just of the technical debate but also of the way in which monopolies are currently developing. mr rocard's questions, i hope, will take the debate further and i will at least be able to listen to the commissioner in the time available to me. i do apologise again for the fact that i have to leave before the conclusion of this debate, which i am taking part in, as you can see, at very short notice.
mr president, i am very pleased to be participating in this debate, not as a member of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport but as one of the rapporteurs on the electronic communications package and a member both of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy and the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. i should just like to say to colleagues from the committee on culture who are present that this is not an issue for that committee alone. it would be good if they encouraged more participation in their work within parliament. this question was developed entirely within their committee. i am glad to have been able to work with many colleagues and to make a contribution. however, there is a much wider range of issues at stake here. firstly, i sense a perception that this whole idea about a multimedia home platform (mhp) is somehow a silver bullet, a magic cure that will, in one sweep, create universal accessibility for digital television. mrs echerer gave us a hint of that just now. that is far from the reality. it is not like mobile telephony; it is not like introducing a gsm standard, because we already have digital television systems in the market, delivering services that consumers want to quite a high interactive standard. in my own country nine million people already have systems operating under other standards than mhp. indeed, the final standard – the full interactive standard – for mhps has not even been published, and yet colleagues here want to rush ahead and standardise it. that is not realistic. i also find a lack of realism about the whole idea that somehow we want to impose a particular business model on broadcasting. this resolution contains a rather unnecessary attack on vertical organisation and my group, and i hope parliament, will reject that element. as the commissioner said earlier, this is an issue on which i and other members have worked in connection with the electronics communications package. we have put competitive instruments in place to stop vertical operators from abusing their dominant position in the marketplace. there are also must-carry obligations that we expect member governments to enforce. the first thing we should be saying to the commission is that we want them to be enforced. they are critical. it is not up to us to enforce a particular business model. we are not there to do that. on the question of application interfaces and the technology, the key word is 'interoperability'. it is not a single standard, and just having a single standard does not mean you automatically get simple authoring or interoperability. we have three mediums in the united kingdom already – cable, terrestrial digital – a powerful access for people to get onto the digital system – and satellite. each of those has a different interface. the commission needs to encourage what i call a toolkit for digital authors. that will allow digital authors to come on and have a common set of principles within which they can develop programmes for any platform. that is the sort of practical thing the commission needs to work on. it certainly needs to monitor how mhp is developing and to see whether that needs further encouragement. however, we are already well down the road to the digital revolution already, and the sort of interference that is being implied by some colleagues here – i am pleased to say not in the resolution – will not help the way forward. we must be realistic about what is going on in the market-place and what consumers are buying now.
mr president, i think there are more fundamental questions to be asked following on from what our colleague said. if you look at the total amount of debating time that we had at september i and ii and the fact that we are finishing now, the question is why did we need to have two sittings in september at all? it simply is not necessary with the new rules. i would ask you mr president to take back to the bureau that we are already seeing the highly desirable impact of the corbett report on the rules changes. we need to evaluate how many weeks we need to be working here, because, president, we are desperately short of committee time in this parliament. we have a ludicrously small amount of committee time between now and christmas to deal ... (protests from mr posselt)it is true mr. posselt, and i will show you the agenda for my committee. we have a ridiculously small amount of committee time, and we should not be wasting time sitting around here waiting for something to happen, when we could be doing serious political work in brussels in committee. contrary to what mr. schulz is saying a true democratic parliament would have a serious look at its workload and – i thank you for the interruption mr posselt – i believe there are many people who agree with me. most of them have gone already, because they do not want to waste their time here on thursday afternoon.
mr president, at a more mundane level, i should like to support those who are complaining about the change in time of voting in one regard. when the bell rang – and i did hear it in my office – i looked to the screen to see what was happening. and what did i see, but my esteemed colleague, mr harbour, speaking with great authority on the issue in hand with no indication that the votes were to follow next. for all i knew, it could have been a fire alarm or something else. perhaps the screens could have given us better information about what was coming?
mr president, on a point of order, firstly as mr schulz will well know, as he sees the lively debates in our group which go on in public and in private, we have already attracted one of his members, mr balfe, who is a member of our group now. we welcome any others who wish to cross the floor because we would like to have an overall majority in this parliament, as we have in the quaestors! secondly, mr schulz is quite right that we need to fill up the time. perhaps that is why mr poettering is looking a little pale, perhaps it is overwork. as far as time is concerned, while we are in strasbourg we should use it to full effect, otherwise it just influences the other part-sessions where we then have to do things that we would not otherwise do.
mr president, the socialist group supports the commission's proposals which have been outlined today. today is an historic occasion. in many ways it marks another stage down the road begun by willy brandt when he was mayor of berlin. before dwelling on the historic nature of today, i would like to acknowledge that it has only been possible to get where we are thanks to the determination of the commission. when president prodi launched the new fast-track method of negotiation, it radically changed the enlargement negotiations. i would also like to pay tribute to commissioner verheugen, who has pursued his brief with great determination and with a unique ability to master the detail while holding on to the big picture. he has also been a model of transparency and openness. enlargement is first and foremost a security issue. it is about admitting countries to a political and economic system which has brought peace, stability and prosperity to countries which spent much of modern history trying to destroy each other. in our discussions about the details, we must not lose sight of that fact. we have it in our power to reunite europe and to create a genuinely europe-wide union dedicated to building stability and prosperity, not only for its own citizens, but also beyond its borders. inevitably, as enlargement approaches reality, the voices of doubters are beginning to be heard. some say enlargement is too costly. to those i would point out that in the period of 2000 to 2006, we will spend one thousandth of one percent of the eu's gdp on the candidate countries. we will spend ten percent of what germany has spent on its reunification. what we spend is a fraction of the cost of defending western europe during the cold war. the real question is – what is the cost if we do not enlarge the european union? what will it cost in terms of the social, political and economic dislocation which will inevitably follow? some say they are in favour of enlargement but not yet. they say we must wait for the reform of this or that policy. but politics is not like that. we do not sit around waiting for perfection. enlargement is a dynamic process which itself will drive forward the process of reform within the eu. enlargement is actually the solution to the problems which concern our voters – the concerns about crime and drugs, about the environment, about jobs and a better future for our children. we have a window of opportunity to enlarge. if we miss this moment, it will be lost for a generation and the cause of reform will be lost with it. enlargement and reform go side-by-side. i do not wish to underestimate the very serious issues that must be addressed. the core of the eu is the single market and there can be no weakening of it. there can be no question of admitting countries that cannot or will not enforce the aquis in this area, particularly in relation to state aids, competition policy and respect for intellectual property. there can be no question of admitting countries whose judicial system is corrupt or inept, or whose administrative capacity is not up to the task ahead. there can be no question of admitting countries unable or unwilling to take effective action to combat crime or the traffic of people and drugs. that is why i welcome the safeguards that the commission has announced. i welcome in particular the economic safeguards in relation to the internal market which we have never had before, and also the commitment to have a further progress report six months before the date of accession. if there are problems then, we and the council must have the courage of our convictions to act effectively in those circumstances. there are, of course, serious issues to be addressed in relation to agriculture. firstly, there have been profound delays in the implementation of sapard. money must be spent before accession to strengthen structures in the rural areas and to avoid a rural exodus and mass unemployment. the central eastern-european countries will have problems co-financing sapard because they will have to incorporate budget resources which they had set aside for 2000-2001 into their budgets for 2002-2003. therefore, the commission must take appropriate measures to ensure that sapard funds are not lost because of late implementation. the agricultural sector and the interests of the rural population are important to both the eu and the candidate countries. that is why we need a balanced solution to financing agriculture which does not offload the costs onto the weakest. therefore, we strongly support the proposals commissioner fischler made in january because they are fully compatible with the berlin agreements and the roadmap for enlargement. in discussing further reform in the cap, we must ensure that the accession countries are involved in an advisory capacity as soon as possible. we must have reform before agenda 2000 runs out in 2006. reforms, however, cannot be a further hurdle to concluding accession negotiations, just as enlargement should not hold up the reform of the cap. as a former chairman of the lithuanian jpc, i must raise the issue of kaliningrad. i would urge that we find a solution which is deliverable for the lithuanians and does not drive them into the 'no' camp. today is not the end of a process. today is, hopefully, the beginning of the end of a process. we must scrutinise the path forward very closely. we must remember that no other enlargement has been as well-prepared as this one has, but we must seize this moment in history to make progress. i would like to call upon the inspiration of the late, great elvis presley at this moment – it is now or never, tomorrow is too late. (applause)
mr president, many of us never thought we would witness in our lifetimes the fall of the berlin wall. that event changed the face of europe and heralded a process of emancipation for our neighbours in central and eastern europe which is nearing its conclusion. it is worth reminding ourselves of the 13 long years this process has taken as the siren voices of the sceptics seek to dash enlargement on the rocks. in a previous debate, i described enlargement as a process of continuous assessment, not a one-off exam. i thank mr prodi for presenting today the commission's assessment of the readiness of the applicant states to join the european union which marks those countries' completion of a major assignment in that process. they are now approaching the final examination at the copenhagen summit. the prospects look good although they still have some hard work to do in the months ahead if they are to make the grade. the liberal democrat group has always sought to apply the copenhagen criteria and the timetable, not to elevate one above the other. we, therefore, welcome the commission's conclusion that the ten applicant states will be ready to join the european union by 2004, but that monitoring of their preparations will continue. a reinforced monitoring system is necessary because the overview provided by the commission clearly shows that there are deficiencies in the readiness of those applicant countries and we should be open about this. if we are to convince our own people of the case for enlargement, it must be clear that we are not sweeping problems under the carpet. openness about those problems and the measures taken to tackle them will make us better able to reassure the doubters. i therefore call on the commission to transmit to parliament all the regular enlargement reports which it will make to council. if we await the comprehensive monitoring report six months before enlargement, the commission may have no alternative but to impose safeguards since the nuclear option of suspending enlargement may not be viable. i hope that the threat of those safeguards will be sufficient to ensure that they are not used. neither should we forget, however, that it is not only our own voters who have to be convinced. there are referenda to be won in the applicant states. critics in those countries who compare the european union to the old soviet union are confusing a jacket with a straightjacket. yet we must show those countries that they will benefit from enlargement from year one. this means a generous financial settlement which precludes them becoming net contributors in the short term. by introducing a secession clause in a new constitutional treaty, we would also assuage any fears that to join the european union is to throw away the keys to freedom. my group is deeply worried that corruption remains widespread and that much work must be done to implement the acquis in justice and home affairs. we must be firm on the failings of the candidate countries, yet we must recognise that the report before us today is only a progress report. my own country struggled to meet the criteria 15 months before accession. thirty years later, some might say that it is still struggling. one thing is clear, however. the monitoring of compliance with eu laws and respect for the union's values is not a process which should end upon accession. the liberal group welcomes the date of 2007 along with a roadmap for bulgaria and romania. the steps which they need to take must be clearly outlined by the commission in time for copenhagen, so that they are clear on what needs to be done. the recent reforms undertaken by the turkish government represent a real breakthrough and, while no date can be set for turkey's accession until the political criteria are met, we will watch with interest the implementation of these reforms. turkey must be offered a pre-accession strategy accompanied by more financial support and a friendlier political environment. we must show the world that we are not an elite christian club. the question of cyprus will also have to be resolved to smooth the way for turkey's entry. here we look to greece and turkey to help broker an agreement before the copenhagen summit. the prospect of the whole of cyprus joining the eu would start the greek presidency on a positive note which we hope would conclude, in thessaloniki, with a summit symbolising reconciliation. in conclusion, the enlargement marathon is nearing the finish line. despite the exertions thus far, the participants must be prepared for a sprint finish. once they cross the line in copenhagen, they will have little time to celebrate, the training for the next marathon begins – the marathon of meeting the acquis communautaire and achieving democratic endorsement of the enlargement process. (applause)
mr president, we know that one reason for military intervention is the search for weapons of mass destruction, but there are, of course, other reasons. parliament's resolution of may 2002 made a proposal which still has not been taken up. it suggested that an international ad-hoc tribunal be set up to try saddam hussein and his officials, and that the commission should set up an office of human rights to collect the evidence. there are, of course, different reasons for intervening: humanitarian interventions, self-defence, article 51, as was used in afghanistan, and now a new proposal of anticipatory self-defence – the so-called pre-emptive strike – discussed by president bush for regime change. even the 'bullet in the head' option has been discussed. but this parliament, surely, should have one thing in mind: the people of iraq. here i call for a prosecution of saddam hussein and his officials under the 1948 genocide convention. this is a crime against humanity of such a scale that it can never be forgiven and we must invoke justice and the rule of law. the genocide convention to which we and all our allies are parties imposes a duty upon us to punish all acts of genocide ordered by constitutionally-responsible rulers. it expressly envisages that an international court may be established for that purpose, preferably in the territory in which the crimes were committed and if not, elsewhere. in this way all perpetrators may be tried by such international panel tribunals which may have jurisdiction with respect to those contracting parties which have accepted its jurisdiction. the nuremberg precedent reminds us that a torturer is a torturer even if you are in a uniform and you have accepted an order to torture one of your fellow men or women. in other words, being an official does not exempt you from prosecution. this means that we have an absolute duty to look not just at saddam hussein but at all of those officials. what are saddam hussein's genocidal acts? in the past, we have seen the use of chemical weapons in the north, the decimation of the gypsies, the persecution of jews, the assyrian christians, over three-quarters of a million displaced people, assaults on shia muslims and those of iranian descent. thirty years of murderous assault and still he goes after the remnants of those unfortunate people. genocide now concerns the marsh arabs: over half a million people destroyed in the last few years. they have lost their place, the people, the fish, the animals, the water, the land, their homes, their farms, villages, towns, boats and agriculture through killing, burning and draining. we have seen the total destruction of a unique, distinctively different and ancient tribal people. that is genocide. a un resolution is required but we need the evidence to be brought up front, in front of the peoples of the world, to alter the perception of why this course of action is required. the establishment of the office of human rights was accepted in principle by commissioner patten at our debate in may 2002. i urge him to set up this office without delay – we have already lost too much time.
mr president, commissioner patten has referred to the dossier that was produced by the united kingdom government prior to the debate in the house of commons. that dossier makes for some interesting reading. the most significant thing i found in it was a picture of the footprint of one of saddam hussein's palaces. superimposed on this was a footprint of buckingham palace. buckingham palace was a minute corner of whole footprint of saddam hussein's palaces. this is quite important because it is said that saddam hussein does not want anyone to go into his palaces. well, none of us want people coming into our houses. we do not realise that these palaces are basically cities in their own right and that is why all aspects of the un inspectors' mandate must be adhered to. they must be able to go anywhere because palaces the size that he has, and he has quite a few, have the capacity to conceal major weapon sites. we must be clear that there should be no interference with the ability of the inspectors to go in. we know saddam hussein is a threat to the region and to his own people, but we know that for the interests of world peace we must act through the united nations. this must not be unilateral action. un resolutions, however, must clearly hold iraq to account and there must be a willingness to follow through with action. it is not enough to threaten. we must be prepared to follow through with that threat if everything else fails. we must keep the pressure on saddam hussein. we must continue to enforce a no-fly zone, including giving the pilots the right to self-defence. if the un sees this through, we will change international politics. there will be a whole new environment pushing towards multilateral action. if the un is not capable of seeing this through, the whole multilateral element of international politics would be discredited and the world would become a much more dangerous place.
mr president, no one is in any doubt that saddam hussein is a brutal dictator. that is not sufficient justification for launching a pre-emptive attack on iraq. if it were, we would be attacking many countries around the world. we need to be clear that the motivating force for this war is primarily about trying to ensure secure access to oil. president bush cannot, of course, admit this. instead, we are told we must go to war in order to destroy saddam's weapons of mass destruction. let us be clear about this, our moral authority might be a little stronger if we did not also have weapons of mass destruction. i also want to talk about the united nations. commissioner patten said that working with the un confers legitimacy. i agree it is a step towards legitimacy. it is a necessary but insufficient requirement for any action because the un process is itself highly imperfect. in order to get agreement from the un security council for the first gulf war, the us used bribery, blackmail and threats and they will do it again. the resolution which the us is currently trying to get through the security council is not designed to avert war but rather to provoke war. leaked drafts resemble nothing so much as a plan for unopposed invasion. a just war to the extent that any such thing might be claimed to exist can only be pursued when all peaceful means have been exhausted. in this case, peaceful means are not only unexhausted, they are being deliberately avoided. (applause)
mr president, it would be a grave misconception to look at the imminent attack on the iraqi state as a new state of affairs. we all know that the attacks on iraq are already underway on a massive scale in the no-fly zones in the country. i do not know under which international agreements they have been allowed to continue, but such attacks have only intensified and worsened the situation in the country. however we view, as a parliament, the proposed attack on saddam hussein, we cannot look at it in isolation. the attack would be seen, along with the incursions against palestine, as an attack on the arab world itself. it would, along with the threat to oil supplies, globalise an already-escalating conflict. we condemn saddam hussein unreservedly for his regime which oppresses minorities and offends democracy in iraq. a more sensible and productive international approach, however, would be to defend and ensure self-determination for all minorities in iraq, especially the five million kurds in the north of the country comprising one quarter of the iraqi population. human rights and freedom in iraq would be better served were we to take that course of action, uniting minorities and the international community behind a common front to topple saddam and all other world dictators.
the council. - mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. it is a great honour to have this opportunity to speak in the european parliament on the state of play of the review of the european employment strategy. employment policy affects something of the most fundamental to people: the job they have. the bible says, "in the sweat of your brow shall you make your bread". but work has many other functions. it is in the workplace that we spend most of our waking lives. it's where we make many connections with other people, and it's often the ones we miss the most if we lose our jobs. the new areas which will help to make europe a leading force are, among others, a large labour market and corporate social responsibility. all too often the labour market is likened to a centrifuge, with too many people on the edge. we must therefore exchange ideas on how to avoid this. we in europe also face a number of common challenges which we must solve if we are to preserve the european social model, combining economic efficiency with good social security systems and combining a market economy with the welfare state. the enlargement of the eu to include a number of eastern and central european countries means - with or without transitional arrangements - free movement of labour in the new and enlarged union. a number of countries - including denmark - have opted to open up to free movement from the first day of membership. we in denmark have no problem with that. on the contrary, we see the new member states as a resource. the main task towards the end of the year is to agree on the framework for the revision of the employment strategy. in 2003, we will then start discussing the strategy itself and the individual guidelines. the presidency has attached great importance, as a starting point, to a thorough debate before the preparation of a revised and new employment strategy. in this context, it is important that all the key players have a say. in order to ensure sufficient time for debate, we felt it was important to give the subject a central place in the danish presidency's programme on employment and social policy and to take up the revision of the strategy at the first formal council meeting. this is the best way of sending a clear signal to the commission as early as possible. the national authorities naturally play a central role in the evaluation. they have been responsible for the implementation and monitoring of the strategy since its introduction in 1997. they therefore have a wealth of valuable firsthand experience of the strengths and weaknesses of the current strategy. another important source of experience and achievements of the first five years is, of course, the commission. however, other actors have also gained relevant experience in the past years, which should be taken into account in the ongoing evaluation. this is of course not least true of the european parliament. i have taken note of the views expressed by the committee on employment and social affairs in mid-september. i can largely agree with the views expressed on the key elements of a revised strategy and the wish to consider how cooperation between the various actors can be further developed. finally, i would mention the national and european social partners, who, as active participants, also have important considerations to contribute. the revision of the european employment strategy was on the agenda of the luxembourg council yesterday. it is therefore extremely timely that this item should be included in the agenda for today's debate. as you know, the commission's communication evaluates the experience gained in the first five years of the employment strategy. it provides a general assessment of the results achieved in european labour markets and outlines the main issues in the context of a review of the strategy. the communication is a crucial starting point for the debate currently taking place in various fora. in addition to the communication, the council also received a joint opinion from the employment committee and the economic and political committee. in this report, they assess the main principles of a revised strategy. the presidency has always wanted them to be able to present a joint opinion. we believe that a joint opinion, which could be adopted by the relevant councils, would have given the strongest possible political signal of the political wishes for the future strategy. a joint opinion is also in line with the current desire for better coordination and streamlining of the various european processes, such as the employment guidelines and the broad economic policy guidelines. it is no secret that there are many different views on how far the review of the employment strategy should go. the danish presidency's ambition, however, has been primarily to work for a compromise that could unite those member states which want a major revision of the employment strategy with those which want far fewer changes. the task for us has thus been to secure a common platform for further work. i am therefore pleased to announce today that the council unanimously endorsed the joint opinion of the committee and the committee of the regions. this is also a strong political message on the framework and principles which the governments of the member states consider should form the basis for the preparation of the revision of the european employment strategy. i would like to mention some of the most important principles: the first point to be made is that the overall perspective of the employment strategy must be maintained, with particular emphasis on employment policy priorities. this means concentrating on the results to be achieved by the strategy, based on the lisbon objectives of more and better jobs. the ministers also agreed to simplify and reduce the scope of the employment guidelines as far as possible. this should be done by focusing on common strategic priorities, including national lifelong learning strategies, supported by appropriate targets such as the proportion of the population engaged in some form of education and training. it also stresses that the future strategy must help to address the challenges facing these countries in terms of changing demographics, increased globalisation, the knowledge society and the enlargement of the eu. it was agreed that the strategy should focus more specifically on the following broad objectives: job creation and increasing employment rates, improving the quality of work, improving and modernising the functioning of the labour market, and ensuring both flexibility and job security. in this context, it is particularly important to highlight the need to increase labour supply through policies that promote the employment of women, older people and vulnerable groups, promote active and preventive labour market policies that are effective and efficient, reform tax and transfer systems to create clear incentives to take up and stay in work, improve lifelong learning, skills and mobility, strengthen gender equality and combat discrimination, and promote the development of those parts of the entrepreneurial sector that contribute to job creation. finally, yesterday the council expressed its support for the strategy to reflect further the focus on the medium-term challenges set out in the lisbon strategy, for example in terms of employment rates for women and the elderly. this is the reason for the desire for greater stability in the guidelines over time. in other words, they do not necessarily have to be changed every year. the desire for stability also covers efforts to ensure a greater degree of coordination and less overlap between the various european cooperation processes. the presidency sees these general principles, which the council has endorsed, as a targeted signal and contribution to the commission in its further work towards the end of the year. the council's agreement yesterday means that there are a number of matters which will have to be discussed further in the coming months. this is particularly true of the more active involvement of the social partners and the european parliament. there is thus a clear desire to engage in more concrete reflection on how the european parliament can be more actively involved in the preparation and development of the employment strategy. the role of national parliaments is also recognised in this context. an important outstanding issue is the whole discussion on the scope and type of indicators. these are essential for monitoring the strategy and ensuring that countries move in the desired direction and at the right time. it is therefore also essential that, as soon as a clear picture of the new strategy is emerging, a thorough review of the existing indicators be carried out. the purpose of such review shall be to ensure that they reflect the core objectives of the revised guidelines. the objective must be to develop a more effective set of indicators that are robust, comparable, more focused on the individual guidelines and based on current data. we should like to arrive at fewer but better indicators. finally, i would like to stress that the danish presidency wishes to make the employment strategy more operational and useful as a starting point for employment-promoting strategies in the individual member states. we must move away from the tendency to focus increasingly on details and instruments and concentrate instead on the results, which the european council has emphasised since the lisbon summit. in the context of the review of the employment strategy, we must never lose sight of the big picture. in the coming years, the perspective of a revised european employment strategy is that it will help to bring europe closer together as a continent and as a society. this requires a targeted employment strategy and greater transparency in the decision-making process for the adoption and implementation of the individual elements of the strategy. objective-oriented, open, multi-stakeholder, better anchored in the member states - these must be the key words for the eu's efforts to increase employment. we must never forget that it is the practical results that are the ultimate test of the effectiveness of the eu's employment strategy. it is in practice that the methods must stand the test.
commission. – mr president, firstly i congratulate the european parliament for its stimulating and constructive resolution which was adopted on 25 september 2002. it provides a useful assessment of successes and achievements as well as some of the weaknesses of the european employment strategy. it is, of course, important that it identifies concrete priorities for the future. the resolution was most valuable to the council. the discussions we had yesterday in luxembourg concerned both the evaluation of the european employment strategy and the streamlining of processes in the context of the lisbon agenda. as the minister said, there was a consensus between the member states on the content and the procedures for the future. i am pleased to say that there is now a large common platform of shared views between the three institutions upon which we can base the further development of the strategy and, in particular, define the next generation of employment guidelines. i would like to concentrate on three main areas: policy messages, the process and governance of the process. first, as far as the policy messages are concerned, we all agree that the integrated coverage of broad areas is one of the positive achievements of this strategy. there is an agreement that there is a need to keep this wide range of issues within the strategy and not to narrow its scope. some progress has also been made on the identification of key priorities. there is a long list of these, including job creation and increasing labour force participation; improving quality in work; modernising and improving the functioning of the labour market; ensuring flexibility and security; increasing labour force supply via policies promoting an inclusive labour market; promoting active and preventive labour market policies; reforming tax and benefit systems; improving lifelong learning skills and mobility and promoting developments in entrepreneurship conducive to job creation. obviously the next step will consist of transforming this long list into a structured proposal for employment guidelines. it remains to be seen whether or not the current four-pillar structure, on which we have articulated the development strategy, is still needed in order to reflect these priorities, or if other groupings could improve their visibility. if possible, the guidelines should be reduced in number. this brings me to the second issue which is the process. within the framework provided by the treaty, the employment strategy should focus on the medium and long-term challenges to be met by the lisbon 2010 deadlines. with a view to ensuring a clearer focus on outcomes and on the medium and long-term goals of the strategy, there is a need for greater stability in the employment guidelines which should not be changed every year. member states' national action plans must focus more on implementation. overlaps and duplications with other processes should be more limited, in particular, through coordination between the employment strategy and the broad economic policy guidelines. it is crucial that the respective roles and contributions be better defined. the third point concerns the governance of the process. this is an issue on which the european parliament expressed great interest in its resolution of 25 september 2002. the ideas for future orientations which i have just outlined should provide a better framework for more openness and participation. less and clearer objectives should make the strategy more visible. a stronger focus on implementation and results should provide a better knowledge-base and more transparency. therefore, within this new framework, and with a stronger, more concrete focus, social partners would play a more effective role, and regional and local authorities would understand their role more easily and could participate more effectively. further consideration should be given as to how the european parliament could be actively involved in the design and development of the employment strategy and on how national parliaments can be better integrated into this process. there are major problems in some member states, where the national parliaments have not participated in, nor have, in some cases, any idea about the employment strategy, the monetary procedures or the common goals. this is quite a long list of shared convictions and perspectives but the new process for the strategy has only just begun. as you know, the formal proposal for the employment guidelines 2003 will be presented in april 2003 together with the proposal for the broad economic policy guidelines. in the meantime, there is room and time for everybody to become part of the process and to make their voices heard. the commission will continue to develop the idea of open participation. in order to further stimulate and facilitate the involvement of potential stakeholders, the commission intends to adopt another communication. this will be presented in january and will give an outline of the revised strategy with concrete objectives and targets. there is enough time for a rich exchange of views with the parliament over the next few months in order to define and to agree on procedures for the new european employment strategy.
the commission. mr president, i would like to congratulate mrs bastos on her report, on the way she presented it, and to thank the rapporteur of the committee of the regions, mrs arnold, for her contribution. the skills and mobility action plan consists of 25 points and aims to enable european union citizens to be more mobile. the main objective of the action plan is to remove barriers to living, working and studying in one member state and in another. the aim is not to make mobility compulsory, but to create the conditions which will make it easier for those who want to move within the european union. the commission welcomes the positive reception of the action by parliament and the support for all those actions which, as you know, were judged by the high level group on skills and mobility to be the most appropriate for improving the conditions for citizens' mobility and lifelong learning. the commission has made a number of commitments which are more ambitious than those we made in the action plan, and i must say that, in view of the priorities partly defined at the barcelona council, the commission has tried to make the action plan as realistic and feasible as possible, taking into account the legislative procedures needed to meet the indicative deadlines set. the action plan has a number of specific objectives against which its success will be judged in the coming years and, of course, a number of indicators will be needed to assess its progress. these indicators will be co-designed with the member states. the active involvement of the member states is necessary at all levels, as a whole set of actions in the plan concern competences which are largely national. i would like to stress in particular the need for synchronisation and cooperation between the member states in the field of education and vocational training, particularly in the field of youth mobility, the exchange of good practice and the transparency of qualifications. as a result of the initiative of the commission and the member states, the education council will adopt a resolution on 12 november on enhanced cooperation in the field of vocational education and training. this enhanced cooperation process will aim to improve the overall quality and attractiveness of vocational education and training and to address the lack of transparency and mutual trust which prevents the recognition of professional qualifications and competences from one country to another. the implementation of the plan has been launched, legislative proposals have been submitted and new procedures have been developed, and the council has been urged to take decisions on these proposals already on the table. the commission will work closely with the social partners, particularly on two issues: firstly, lifelong learning and, secondly, the possibility of transferring supplementary pension rights. in particular, and particularly in relation to the issues raised by mrs bastos, it should be noted that a website on occupational mobility is already planned to be operational by the end of the year, in order to provide european citizens with information on the european labour market and certain other areas of mobility. it will also provide a direct link to the website for learning opportunities, which will be operational in 2003. eures will be revised by a commission decision to support the mobility of european workers effectively, and our aim is for eures to provide services and information to both workers seeking work and businesses seeking to recruit workers at european level. thirdly, the commission will present, at the beginning of 2003, the proposal for a european health insurance card, which it has informed parliament of. i would like to mention two horizontal issues. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. parliament has expressed its concern about the risk of brain drain from the east to the west, which would create a particular problem in the candidate countries and a form of human resources bleeding. the relationship between migration and employment will be the subject of a joint conference between the oecd and the european commission in january 2003. in the meantime, the commission is discussing with the council last year's draft directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of employment and self-employment, in order to ensure a common approach by the member states on this issue. the action plan on mobility and skills is a highly complex and ambitious project, with many actions, the implementation of which requires very close cooperation between the european institutions, but also between the social partners and the social partners. i would therefore like to thank parliament in particular for its support and interest in this project from the outset.
rapporteur. – mr president, may i start by saying how much i welcome the commissioner's remarks, and also those of the danish presidency. the concept of putting employment in a central place in the presidency programme is absolutely right and sets exactly the right tone and example not just for us but indeed for successive presidencies. i would like to make some general remarks and then touch on my report. certainly it is fair to say that generally, member states and this parliament too often skate around the important issue of employment. there is much talk but little action and such action as there is often unhelpful. certainly my own country sets a rather poor example in this respect. last year 4 600 employment regulations were introduced. that is one every 26 minutes. that is hardly the way ahead. but it is not enough for us to have separate programmes and projects, welcome as those may be. it is not enough just to set targets whether for young people, women, the long-term unemployed etc., and then sit back and watch. it is not enough to focus so firmly on job protection, trying to keep current jobs alive even when the market has moved on. we need to focus on job creation, which means liberating enterprise. we need to recognise that the greatest engine of employment growth in all our countries is the sector called 'small and medium-sized enterprises'. we must help them succeed and thrive and not hold them back. we need to realise that full employment helps create social inclusion and not the other way around. the lisbon council said, and i repeated this in my report, that we need to encourage a regulatory climate which is conducive to investment, innovation and entrepreneurship in general. two years on, we have simply added to the burdens on business, and high unemployment in continental europe is our own fault. i am heartened, however, by the lead that the danish presidency is trying to give and i would like to thank minister frederiksen in particular for a most helpful letter that he sent me on 18 september. i am sure he will not be embarrassed if i share with colleagues just one paragraph which is very pertinent to our topic of discussion today:'my clear stand is that the european union should only step in with legislation where there is an obvious need for such regulation and, in such cases, only to the necessary extent. there should be room for manoeuvre at the national level and if regulation is introduced it should, in my view, to the highest possible extent, be in the form of framework directives rather than detailed rules. there should also, wherever possible, be a freedom of choice as to the method of implementation as is, for instance, the case in connection with the open coordination method in the employment and social field. finally i would like to emphasise that i also attach great importance to the principle of subsidiarity.' those are extremely wise words and we all look forward to them being translated into action. similarly, the comments from commissioner prodi back in july saying that the intention was to simplify regulation by at least 25%, and to do that with all speed, is also to be welcomed. again, we wish to see some flesh put on those particular commitments as soon as possible, preferably again under your leadership and presidency. as far as the growth and employment initiative is concerned, i was delighted that this was approved unanimously in committee and that we had made some progress in becoming lighter on our feet. the first report on this multi-annual programme was in january 2001. the second year's report was made only 11 months later, and this year the report is actually in october. next year i would like to make it earlier still, and i would look for the earliest possible feedback from the commission to make this possible. specifically, however, i would like to point out how much i welcome the commission's cooperation in providing information and updates at regular intervals. i welcome the progress that has been made and in particular the way that the programme has been managed and has developed. i would like to see some clear responses and some action regarding the proposals made by the parliament both last year and indeed this time around. very simply, i would like to see the next commission report show that it has not only read parliament's report but has actually responded to it. this means including a fuller analysis of certain aspects of the initiative and also the winding up of the joint european venture, the jev programme, in its current form. i am reminded that at the end of the debate in december on exactly this subject, commissioner liikanen accosted me just after he finished speaking and asked whether the parliament agreed with winding up the jev programme, because this was what the commission very much wanted to do. i told him that parliament did indeed want to see the programme wound up. he said he was very relieved to hear that and would now get on with it. so far, i have not seen much action in winding the programme up. the commission needs to be much quicker and lighter on its feet on such issues, but then, so do we all.
the commission. mr president, i must say that we have received with great interest the report by the committee on employment and social affairs of the european parliament on the third report on initiative, growth and employment. i particularly appreciate the spirit of cooperation with the rapporteur and the comments made on our annual report and i note in particular that the committee on employment and social affairs considered the european commission's report to be thorough and that the commission responded to the european parliament's request for a speedier presentation of the report. and of course, relations with the rapporteur were excellent and there was very close cooperation, as was also shown by mr bushill-matthews's statement. i will answer by grouping my remarks into three sections. the first is the provision of information to parliament and its timetable, the second the geographical coverage and the third the prospects for the financial instruments. as regards the provision of information, although the completion of formal procedures is time-consuming, the european commission continued the practice of regularly informing the rapporteur before the formal procedure is completed. in addition, an attempt was made to provide quarterly information on the financial implementation of the programmes managed by the european investment fund on an informal basis. i would also like to reply to your question on the question of so-called pre-financing provided by intermediary financial institutions under the guarantee mechanism for small and medium-sized enterprises. i should like to say that the reason why some smes are given this funding before they start is that they are in the start-up phase, they do not have to be formally guaranteed before the loan is granted and they are of course selected by the intermediary financial institutions. in terms of geographical and sectoral coverage, despite the economic downturn in all financial markets, the european investment fund achieved a relatively satisfactory coverage of all countries. it has succeeded in committing all available resources in 13 member states. the difficulties in applying the european technology facility's start-up mechanism, the emf start-up, have not started in the same way in all countries, there are different problems in applying it, and this is due to the fact that there are different stages of development of the venture capital market in the different countries and, of course, the 50% equity issue, which is not always easy to achieve and countries with low venture capital activity find it difficult or impossible to meet this second condition. for these reasons, the geographical breakdown should be considered as a whole for all sme financial instruments and not separately for each. we also believe that in this context we need the appropriate flexibility to allocate budgetary resources to the various financial instruments in favour of smes, not only in response to geographical distribution obligations but also taking account of market demand. it should be noted that in any case the european investment fund has tried to promote financial instruments in countries where demand was low. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. in view of this, it is true that the fund's start-up facility targets small and medium-sized high-technology enterprises, while more than 90% of the beneficiaries of the sme guarantee facility are smaller enterprises, with less than 10 employees, mainly in the service, craft, manufacturing and trade sectors. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the continuity of programmes in favour of smes is ensured through the multiannual programme for enterprise and entrepreneurship, which is now open to the candidate countries. the european investment fund hopes to start negotiating contracts before the end of 2002, signing memoranda of understanding with these countries and finalising the budgetary procedures. as regards the european technology facility's start-up facility, as presented in the 2001 annual report, the re-evaluation of innovative high-growth companies and the consequent large losses to investors have completely changed market conditions. it does not seem that this situation can change in the future. in addition, it should be borne in mind that slow economic growth, increased competition in european markets, the restructuring of the banking sector and the search for shareholder value have contributed to banks being reluctant to offer or renew loans to failing smes. of course, when some of this risk is shared by public bodies, it is still possible for banks to offer loans to smes. the market demand for the sme guarantee mechanism is therefore currently quite high and we believe that additional demand will arise from the candidate countries when they join. as regards the jev, as mr bushill-matthews points out, the commission agrees that the programme had a limited impact in terms of job creation and was not cost-effective. there was limited demand from smes and the programme experienced significant delays in processing applications. this was the result of the commission's need to implement strict procedures which minimise the risk of illegal actions and protect the community's financial interests. the commission therefore agrees with parliament's view that the joint european venture should be closed. the final evaluation of the growth and jobs initiative should be completed and ready for submission to parliament in november 2002. after the consultation period, the commission will present to the council in march or may 2003 a proposal for a council decision amending the multiannual programme for enterprise and entrepreneurship and possibly closing this particular initiative for the european joint undertaking. finally, a word on the evaluation: the period covering the budgetary commitment for the financial instruments managed by the european investment fund ended on 29 may 2002, i.e. 4 years after the adoption of the council decision. therefore, the assessment report was scheduled to be submitted after that date to take account of the full 48-month commitment period. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work. all the analyses and investigations show that one of the most important problems of small and mediumsized enterprises is the question of their financing, and this is a problem which exists in all the countries of the european union. the european commission, through these initiatives, through guarantee funds, joint ventures, the effort to support technology-related enterprises, is trying in a pilot way to find new instruments for financing small and mediumsized enterprises. sometimes they're successful and sometimes they're not. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but we believe that in any case the final result is positive because we have cooperation between the member states, we have new tools on the market and in any case we always find the model that is appropriate for the country and for the sme sector.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy. – mr president, smes play an important role, both from an economic and a social point of view. they are therefore a key political priority. the relevance of small and micro-enterprises was recognised by the feira european council. this is why they should benefit from the eu financial instruments to a much greater degree than they have so far. to achieve this, the commission urgently needs to recognise and readdress three areas. i am not entirely satisfied with the explanations we have had from the commissioner. the commission needs to tackle the lack of information smes and micro-enterprises have about these programmes. access to information about how to get financing is an essential starting point for encouraging entrepreneurship and smes' activities. therefore, the commission and member states need to launch campaigns to give smes clear and simple information on how to benefit from eu projects and programmes. second, there is too much red tape and too many complicated financing procedures. these need to be eliminated. in europe, smes have to face many more obstacles when accessing financing than is the case for smes in the united states. we have heard about the joint european venture programme and why it has failed. we must look at the figures. one of the reasons is that one in five projects was refused by the commission or withdrawn due to the level of administrative requirements. this needs to be investigated. also, the commission failed to put in place the groundwork before they launched the jev programme because it was not marketed in some states, there were no intermediaries, and if you look at the uk, there was only one. this meant that the programme was doomed to fail from the start. i know that in my region there are many micro-enterprises and smes who would have welcomed the opportunity to be involved in this programme. i hope that its successor will address some of these problems because this programme is important, especially for the candidate countries.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities. – mr president, i would like to welcome the commission's action plan on skills and mobility and mrs bastos' report. whilst it is the lack of jobs rather than the lack of mobility which is the main problem for the unemployed in europe, the issues identified by the commission taskforce are very important. i would like to make a few specific points that were highlighted by the women's rights and equal opportunities committee: first, gender mainstreaming is a requirement for all commission documents, but an annex to this action plan explaining how it was done in this case would not only help ensure that the measures are adhered to, but would also demonstrate how mainstreaming was achieved in a practical way. this would be a good example for other policy areas. second, regional initiatives are proposed to support training for women in occupations where they are not equally represented. the revised equal treatment directive allows member states to provide such additional vocational training in areas such as the scientific sector and this should be built on in the action plan. third, the action plan proposes the formation of industrial, educational and other advisory bodies. whilst i know that membership of these bodies is not always within the commission's jurisdiction, a clause requiring the commission to ensure equal representation when possible sends everyone involved a very clear message that this is desirable and expected. geographical mobility means more, of course, than simply getting a job in a different place. there are other issues to be taken into account, particularly for workers with children: access to housing, social services, good quality education and childcare. the report makes several points which i welcome and which are important to women, such as qualifying periods for supplementary pension rights – as mentioned by the commissioner – and the use of best practice to encourage more young women to take an interest in mathematics, science and technology. i hope parliament will support the report.
commission - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, like the other institutions of the european union, the commission is following, as you can imagine, with great attention the developments in côte d'ivoire since the beginning of the military uprising on 19 september. the union condemned the challenge to institutional legality that has been facing côte d'ivoire for almost three weeks. at the same time, it reaffirmed the need to find a political solution which would not exclude any of the parties involved, in the spirit of the national reconciliation process which côte d'ivoire had initiated after the serious disturbances of 2000 and which the union had supported both in principle and financially. thirdly, the presidency recalled that the union attaches the utmost importance to respect for human rights. the commission supports president gbagbo and his legitimate government, both of whom were democratically elected. however, since the publication of the union's declaration on 24 september, we have made it clear that there is growing concern about the prospect of a political solution and respect for human rights. the commission naturally welcomed with great interest the outcome of the extraordinary summit of the economic community of west african states in accra. the creation of a contact group of six heads of state with a mission to mediate between the government and the rebels offered the prospect of a peaceful solution that would avoid the bloodshed and lasting devastation that inevitably follows from the fighting on the ground. this work must be supported. the agreement in principle on a ceasefire given to the contact group by president gbagbo and the rebels allowed for some optimism about the implementation of a ceasefire, although nothing was signed on 4 october. so far, nothing has happened and government forces have resumed fighting against the rebels in bouaké since sunday, october 6. the mediation group, whose availability, patience and sense of responsibility we commend, has not hidden its great disappointment and irritation at the ivorian government and its behaviour. the second point in the union's statement of 24 september, on which concern is once again growing, is the respect for human rights by both parties involved. first, the rebels' behavior has been and is increasingly erratic, especially in the way they damage property. as for the government, attacks on opposition members and signs of xenophobia are increasing to the point of becoming very worrying. the circumstances of the death of general gueï, his wife, family members and close friends are at least suspicious. the attacks and intimidation against mr ouatara, his relatives and many leaders of his party (the republican rally) are permanently undermining the process of national reconciliation. the rejection of the foreigner is also becoming more evident. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, please take these reminders seriously. the international community must give its full support to institutional legality in côte d'ivoire. but this support must not be blind or unconditional. madam president, let me conclude by expressing the hope that your institution, by virtue of the prestige it enjoys with the ivorian authorities, will use its influence with them to ensure, as the commission is trying to do, that they are convinced that the path of a peaceful solution is the only path of reason and hope.
madam president, it is slightly difficult to speak on this resolution because as yet it has not been translated and brought up to the office. i have to work on the basis of the french version and i just hope i get it right. it is tragic that once again we find ourselves standing in this chamber talking about yet another war in sub-saharan africa. it is absolutely right that we voice our displeasure at such an action having taken place. it is true to say that the election was disappointing and that we had hoped for better results. it reflected on the problems of ivoirian birthright – as to whether you should be allowed to stand as a president if you were born in the country or if your parents were ivoirian. we should always remember, however, that everything concerning our relations with these developing countries is based on the cotonou accord. that, of course, gives us a basis for democracy, human rights and good governance. quite honestly, good governance to me is almost more important than pure democracy because if you can get a stable country that is transparent in its doings then that is a big step. côte d'ivoire is a huge country with enormous potential and is one of the lynchpins in west africa. this was very much an internal power struggle. there are those who blame outside influences or rebel groups from other nations, but this was a pure power struggle within the nation itself. it was an issue of people wanting to take power simply as a domestic issue. the problem is much the same as that experienced by nigeria in that there is a very strong muslim presence in the north of the country, and a christian one in the south. there is always a vying between these two groups. as it happens, the muslims in the north tend to be the poorer of the two groups. the commission should focus aid onto this area to benefit the muslims who have not got the wealth of the south. i was in ghana two weekends ago when the ecowas meeting of the 14 west african states took place. they discussed the situation in the côte d'ivoire. there was real doom and gloom amongst the representatives and leaders of those countries. when things go wrong in a country of that size, it not only destabilises côte d'ivoire, it very much destabilises that whole region. therefore i was delighted that at least the ecowas leaders had the foresight and sense to intervene in the situation in côte d'ivoire and send a delegation there in the hope that it could mediate between the two parties. i sincerely hope that they are successful because there are problems arising in nigeria where exactly the same situation exists. that country has a strong fundamentalist muslim north and a christian group in the south. with the way the commission is now moving towards regional policies, it is absolutely vital that we get these countries to understand that if they are going to be able to face global prospects as far as trade is concerned, they must pull together as a region. therefore it is vitally important that they support each other. the one disappointment was that nepad, the new african partnership on development, has not reacted more strongly in this situation. written into that new agreement was a peer review. i had hoped that when a problem like this arose, the heads of states in african countries in that organisation, which has been set up by africans to look after africa, would have immediately stepped in. but unfortunately, as with the zimbabwean situation, they have not done so. if this organisation has not fallen at the first fence then it has certainly stumbled. i sincerely hope preparatory talks can take place as soon as possible because only around a table can we bring this conflict to an end without the death and destruction that usually happens. all i can do is ask the commission to press both parties to stop warring and come together for discussions.
- we've taken note of this problem and will try to correct it by tomorrow morning.
- i should like to congratulate you on what i believe is your first speech in this parliament.
commission. - mr president, i should first like to thank each of the speakers for their contributions and questions and for the specific concerns that have been expressed. i was particularly struck by the testimony you gave almost unanimously about the commission's capacity to react and take initiative. i don't take these compliments personally. mrs schreyer, who is standing beside me, has worked hard on the flexibility instrument which makes it possible to finance this fund, and naturally all our departments have been sensitive, ladies and gentlemen, to your testimony. as mrs sudre said, for the last three years i have felt that the european union's response to major disasters has been inadequate. i remember conversations with mr hatzidakis a few days after i arrived at the commission, the day after the earthquake in the athens area. as a french citizen, i was touched, as i was when germany was hit by the storm; there were also those disasters in the azores... i have long felt, frankly, in my interest in the question of risk and risk management, that the european union's response to large-scale disasters was not adequate. that is how we bounced back this time, because the disaster in germany, austria, the czech republic and slovakia is of a scale unknown until now. we immediately learned a lesson, this time all together, under the authority of president prodi. i would like to thank your rapporteurs once again, and in particular mr berend, for their cooperation and their proposals. mr lisi, whom i heard, said: will one billion be enough? i hope so. i hope we don't use that billion every year. this is already infinitely more than the small budget line that used to exist, which allowed for just a sprinkling. we will, mr lisi, ladies and gentlemen, prove the movement by walking. as the years go by - and i hope we do not have too many disasters - we will have some benchmarks, and in a few years we will have an assessment of the management of this fund. i have already had the opportunity to say that if by the end of the year this fund is completely exhausted, we could use - i say 'by the end of the year' - the appropriations for the following year. but let's use that billion already if we need it. then we'll make the necessary evaluation. i would also like to say to mr ferber that in order to use this money effectively and quickly, for the benefit of the people who are waiting for it - local elected officials, businesses in germany, austria and the two candidate countries that have been affected - we must be able to release these funds. i would stress that we must have a request for intervention from the member states and damage assessments, even if the files are not large technical files. i have already said this to the german and austrian ministers-in-office, and we have informed the ambassadors of the countries concerned that we need an assessment of the extent of the damage. we have contacted the services of the countries concerned. mr ripoll i martínez referred to the very specific case of droughts. it is not primarily droughts that we are targeting through this solidarity. i would also add, mr ripoll i martínez, that although there are periods of drought, as we should fear, we have other ways in the budget of the european union, particularly through the cap, of helping and showing solidarity, particularly with farmers. finally, i would like to reply to mr pohjamo who asked me which countries, outside the union, could benefit from this fund. the proposal for a regulation states very precisely that these are the countries of the european union or those with which accession negotiations have been opened. i would like to say, as i have said, that i have been interested in this subject for a long time, that there are lessons to be learned beyond this fund, which i hope will be operational thanks to you and the council in a few weeks at the latest. prevention is always cheaper than repair. and so i came up with two ideas that we'll talk about later. firstly, even if the commission does not claim competence in this area, i believe it would be useful to have a benchmarking study on the different insurance systems in the member states or the candidate countries. i was very struck the other day when i visited saxony-anhalt and met an industrialist whose company had been completely devastated and who told me that he had no insurance at all. i think we must therefore look in each of our countries at where the best practices are, where the best systems are, and perhaps exchange these good practices in the framework of intergovernmental cooperation. secondly, on prevention, and both mrs guy-quint and mrs schierhuber have raised the question of prevention. in the proposals we are considering for the future regional and cohesion policy, for the future post-2006 agenda (proposals i will make on behalf of the college at the end of 2003), i am determined to make prevention against natural hazards and disasters a mandatory priority of the european structural funds in all regions of the union and in all our programmes. finally, i would like to conclude, since i am going as far as i can in the lessons, in reply to mr stockmann and mr savary, that i too think we should go further than simple coordination. we have already made progress since the previous disasters, particularly under the leadership and impulse of my colleague margot wallström. i believe that we should move towards this beautiful and effective idea of a european civil protection force, that we should set up a network of specialised units in our different countries, capable of being aggregated, of being mobilised in the event of disasters within the territory of the union or outside, and that it should not be the belgians, the french, the germans, the austrians who leave, each with a lot of goodwill but separately, but that it should be europeans who leave to help europeans or their neighbours. perhaps we should continue to think about this question. once again, we are not claiming community competence. i know this, especially since civil protection is often not a national competence. it is sometimes regional. but where there is a will, there is a way, and i think it would be a good idea, an effective idea, to go beyond simple coordination and one day set up a european civil protection force. thank you, mr president, thank you to your rapporteurs, and thank you in advance for the vote you will take tomorrow on this matter. (applause) i would like to thank
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0297/2002) on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the energy performance of buildings (8094/2/2002 - c5-0268/2002 - 2001/0098 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr vidal-quadras roca).
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- doc. a5-0283/2002 by mr bösch, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the communication from the commission on the protection of the law against fraud and the management of contracts (sec (2001) 2029 - c5-0158/2002 - 2002/2066 (cos)).
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0307/2002) by mr holmes, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council regulation establishing specific conditions for access to deep-sea fisheries and laying down the requirements for access (com (2002) 108 - c5-0135/2002 - 2002/053 (cns)).
deputising for the rapporteur. – i am privileged to present this report on behalf of my colleague from the fisheries committee, michael holmes. members may be aware that mr holmes recently underwent major surgery and i am sure that the house will join me in wishing him a speedy recovery. firstly, i congratulate mr holmes on his excellent work in compiling this report. we are dealing with this issue against a background of collapsing fish stocks throughout the european union. indeed, at the recent world summit on sustainable development in johannesburg, the issue of over-fishing in international waters was recognised by countries around the world. they committed themselves to limiting fishing to sustainable levels and to taking steps to restore fish stocks by 2015, a position fully supported by commissioner fischler. indeed, he expressed the view that the eu should achieve these targets long before that date and he pledged decisive action against illegal and unregulated fisheries practices. that is why i find it bizarre and even astonishing that the commission agreed to a council compromise last june which effectively paves the way for a total allowable catches (tacs) and quotas to be applied to deepwater stocks. although this was judged by mr arias cañete, the spanish president-in-office of the council at that time, to be one of the highlights of the spanish presidency, it requires closer examination. the science in relation to deep-sea stocks is not yet fully developed. however, we know that these fish live at great depths – over 1 200 metres – and we know that they are slow-maturing, not reaching breeding age until they are at least 25 years old. we also know that they have a very low reproductive capacity, and that there are around 87 different species of fish swimming together at these great depths, of which only around eight are edible or marketable. as a result, we know that fishermen in these waters regularly dump around 90% of all the fish they catch, dead, back into the sea. out of every 100 tonnes of fish caught, 90 tonnes are being thrown back dead into the water. applying tacs and quotas to these deepwater stocks for the first time, as mr holmes points out forcefully in his report, will invite disaster. tacs and quotas are the root cause of the two million tonnes of good, fresh fish which are currently dumped dead into the sea every year in the eu. tacs and quotas only control what is landed, they do not control what is caught. if this house votes tomorrow for the application of tacs and quotas to these deepwater stocks, then i can predict with some confidence that this valuable fishery will be destroyed perhaps within as little as five years. as the holmes report points out, the only way to regulate this fishery in a sustainable way is by effort limitation, by limiting the number of days during which a vessel may put to sea. if a fishing boat is not at sea, then it is not fishing and if it is not fishing, then the fish are not being caught. this is the only logical and realistic approach to achieving a sustainable deepwater fishery. that is why this is also the approach favoured by the scientists and by the fishing communities on whose future the survival of these stocks depends. furthermore, it is essential that we apply strict controls to the type of gear being used in these deepwater fisheries. gill nets are strung out at huge depths on the sea bed, sometimes stretching for up to 100 kilometres, and are then left anchored for days at a time while the parent fishing vessel returns to port. they can cause massive damage to these highly vulnerable species. sometimes, these nets can also break loose and continue ghost-fishing for decades. these nets should be banned. similarly, rock hoppers which bounce across obstacles on the seabed to avoid nets becoming snagged can cause enormous damage to delicate corals and sea mounts which are an essential part of the marine ecosystem. we cannot allow such unsustainable practices to continue unchecked. needless to say, these ideas are not favoured by those member states whose attitude to fishing is based on a short-term, dash-for-profit philosophy. they have no concern for the marine environment, for sustainability, nor for the massive socio-economic impact which will result if we allow these fisheries to collapse. i therefore urge this house to accept the amended proposals recommended by mr holmes in his report and i commend the report to the house.
mr president, i would like to express my thanks to mr holmes for his work and join in wishing him a speedy recovery. the eldr firmly believes that there is an urgent need to regulate this fishery. available scientific evidence on deep-water species suggests that they are outside safe biological limits and that measures should be introduced to allow rebuilding of the stocks. action is particularly essential in light of the fact that these fish live a long time, grow slowly and have low reproductive capacity. the majority of the amendments made by the committee seek to exempt ling and tusk from the scope of the regulation, although they would still be covered by quotas. whilst the group accepts that these two species are caught on the continental shelf, it is imperative that they are properly regulated. if these amendments are adopted by parliament, the eldr will vote against the proposal as a whole. as for amendment no 5, the eldr believes that kilowatt fishing days are a more accurate tool to measure effort in view of the so-called technological creep and so cannot support this amendment. we are, however, favourable to amendment no 6 which requests a review of the progress being made in achieving the aims of the regulation. the eldr has tabled three amendments of its own. amendment no 8 calls for an economic and operational impact assessment in relation to the expected loss of revenue and effort displacement resulting from the implementation of the regulation. amendment no 9 seeks to outlaw the use of fixed gill nets in this fishery as they risk inflicting substantial unintended mortality on heavily depleted stocks. finally, amendment no 10 proposes the use of area closures to protect species which accumulate particularly densely in certain areas at certain times of the year. the eldr is also minded to support amendments nos 12 and 16 by mr hudghton and others on greater involvement by the fishing industry and on safety respectively. it has, however, doubts as to whether fishing effort control should be the sole management tool and therefore also has doubts about amendments nos 11 and 14. the eldr is concerned that amendment no 13 may delay the implementation of the management measures and also believes that amendment no 15 could potentially have a negative impact on the environment. on a personal level, however, i feel that regulation of catch opportunities in a mixed fishery by means of both tacs and quotas and an effort regime, based on licences, will lead to the discarding of species for which a quota is not held or where the quota has been exceeded. for this reason, i shall support amendments nos 11 and 14. i will also support amendment no 15 as it represents a fairer basis for the distribution of quotas. finally, i would like to express, on behalf of the eldr, a profound dissatisfaction that the council has effectively taken a decision on this dossier without awaiting the opinion of parliament. we would hope that the fisheries council will see fit to take its views on board when it reaches its formal decision.
mr president, without verifiable, up-to-date independent scientific advice it is impossible to establish a tac regime. how, then, could the commission support such a regime? how could the council endorse such a scheme in june 2002 without proper consultation with the industry and the north east atlantic fisheries council being left out of the picture? the commission has a lot to answer for in this, but the main appeal that i make at this stage is not for recrimination but for the proposal to be reconsidered. if conservation of stocks is to be achieved, we must regulate deep-sea fisheries under a regime based on effort limitation. we must take into account firstly that tacs will increase mortality through discards of the species most in the need of protection, and secondly, that safety could be put at risk as vessels with inadequate quota but a deficit in fishing days would be pressurised to fish under perilous conditions. i urge this house and also the commission to support the amendments in the name of the eldr group and those in my name which are signed by various members of the four largest groups in this house. finally, the social and economic implications of any final proposal must be fully assessed and measured for compensation provided where appropriate and without discrimination between fishermen in different member states.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. first of all, i would like to thank you very much for the debate. i would remind you, however, that this proposal was submitted by the commission at the beginning of march and i would also like to make it clear that the commission did not give its approval to the political compromise reached in the council, but that the commission stated that it would not give a final opinion on whether or not this compromise was acceptable until parliament had expressed its opinion. it is also not right, i must say quite frankly, to say that there is no scientific assessment here. there is a scientific opinion from ices and there is a scientific opinion from our scientific advisory board. there is no lack of scientific basis for action! the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the first amendment can be accepted by the commission. i agree with the removal of leng, lumb and roter fleckbrasse from the scope of the regulation. however, those fish should continue to be included in the list of species for which catch particulars are required. i can also accept amendments nos 2 and 4. i cannot accept amendment no 3, however. i am opposed to the deletion of the additional provisions on satellite monitoring from our proposal. our practical experience with the satellite system has shown that failures are often not real failures but are faked in order to avoid monitoring. the traditional surveillance by patrol vessels and aircraft is not yet sufficient or even feasible for deep-sea fishing, especially in remote areas. we need a high-performance satellite monitoring system and we need to tighten up the definition and consequences of a failure. i am happy to accept the addition to amendment no 5 that fishing days should be sea days. that's a useful clarification. the reference to fishing areas, on the other hand, is less clear than our proposal to indicate the exact ices square. that's why i don't want to accept it. for reasons of confidentiality, i also do not think it appropriate to publish the identification of individual vehicles for scientific research. i understand that the power of a machine in kilowatts is difficult to measure and to enforce. instead of deleting the reference to the capacity necessary for scientific analysis, we therefore want to improve the reference, for example by indicating the vehicle classes which can be summarised by gross registered tonnes. amendment no 6 is a good idea in my view. i am prepared to provide for a review of the measures in 2005. i also agree with amendment no 7. i cannot agree with amendment no 8. the commission routinely consults the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries on the social and economic consequences of conservation measures. but i am willing to include an article 9a and to report to the council and parliament before 30 june 2005 on the overall regime for the management of deep-sea species, including the scientific implications of reduced fishing effort. i cannot accept motion no 9 as it is formulated, because we do not have any scientific advice calling for a ban on gillnets. i shall however take up their suggestion and ask ices to provide a scientific opinion on whether and for which areas such a ban on gillnets would be a sensible conservation measure. i agree with amendment no 10. 11 i have to decline. it is true that the international council for the exploration of the sea recommends reducing fishing effort for deep-sea species. the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries, however, also considers tucs to be a useful complement. i am happy to accept amendment no 12, but the commission must reject amendment no 13, because it would be contrary to the precautionary principle. we must act as soon as we get the first scientific advice. the same applies to amendment no 14, which i cannot accept. in order to put the effort limitation into practice, we need deep-sea fishing licenses. i am sorry to say that i must also reject amendment no 15. we all know that the performance and capacity of the deep-sea fishing fleet have increased rapidly. if we postpone the reference period, this will de facto allow for a further increase in the deep-sea fleet. but that is not at all consistent with the much-needed spending limits. finally, i must also reject the last amendment no 16, because this amendment would allow for uncontrollable exceptions to the regulation, because the so-called force majeure or the so-called endangerment of the safety of the ship are concepts which are not legally defined. of course - and this is not a matter to be discussed here - security must be guaranteed. the current provisions also allow a vessel in danger to call at a port other than the one required, provided that it does not land the catch there. i believe that this approach is already balanced and takes due account of maritime safety, but also of the enforceable conservation rules.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. (the sitting was closed at 11.42 p.m.)
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy. – mr president, i am not going to speak about lobsters, but i share the interests of the two previous speakers. mr president, you know everything by definition, so you already know the opinion of the industry committee. in case there are any colleagues here who do not know, it is my role to report it. there was a broad spread of opinions in the industry committee, as i shall briefly describe. i will summarise a number of key points which our discussions centred around. first of all, perhaps most importantly, should the scheme be compulsory or should there be opt-outs or exemptions? there were a number of voices from certain national quarters asking for exemptions. other committee members believed that if we allowed exemptions, everyone would ask for one and there would be no directive, so there was a dilemma there. there was also a concern that the benefits that the cutbacks already achieved in certain member states will not necessarily be rewarded adequately. this should be taken care of. there was general agreement that from 2008 the directive should be compulsory. regarding allocation of allowances, the committee is against auctioning. it seems to be a waste of resources when the industry should be using it to cut back. the committee is interested in including other sectors, even perhaps in transport and private housing, although this will be difficult to achieve. we are in favour of including the other five greenhouse gases, although measurement is an important question. on comitology and whether the commission should be allowed to decide the future details, we are firmly, unanimously against. we want full co-decision for the next directive when it is proposed. we want the other parts of the world to pay attention because what we do is useless unless the americans, russians and asians are involved as well. finally, a personal point, the public should be allowed to buy quotas because we want to involve the citizens in european activities and in saving the world. (applause)
mr president, a few weeks ago we returned from the johannesburg summit with the demands ringing in our ears that fine words should be turned into real action in the knowledge that europe's pledges were being greeted with cynicism by journalists and the public. yet if those same critics look to the issue of climate change they will find that such cynicism is unwarranted. from the beginning, the eu has led from the front. it confounded the cynics by securing agreement for implementation of the kyoto protocol and by pushing the us and its head-in-the-sand administration into the sidelines. we now see words being turned into action, with an emissions trading scheme which may well prove the basis for meeting up to 50% of the reductions we have pledged to achieve. i first read about emissions trading and about harnessing market forces to encourage industry to meet environmental objectives a decade or so ago in pressure group magazines. now those ideas, then so easily dismissed as crazy and impractical, are being given positive form. i commend the commission for its draft directive. in many ways, however, it is a timid document and thanks to the work of our rapporteur we have all-party agreement to press for it to be made more ambitious. liberal democrats in the parliament will be joining in supporting a range of measures to broaden its scope, to extend it to include additional industrial sectors and require it to include other global warming gases in addition to co2. personally, i absolutely accept the need for a cap in allowances in each member state although i acknowledge that some of my colleagues in my group are concerned that the requirements being placed upon their nations by the burden-sharing agreement are already onerous. we have a lot to learn. that is why i am pleased that parliament will today vote to give a temporary opt-out to those emission-trading schemes already established. i am not convinced that the british scheme provides the basis for long-term development. it is a different scheme in concept and application from the commission's proposal, and we should be able to learn and benefit from it in the long term. after the successful conclusion of the kyoto conference in bonn, the commissioner told the press that we could now tell our grandchildren that we did something to tackle the problem of climate change. all of us, commissioners, ministers, and parliamentarians want to be able to endorse those words. it will not be easy. there are some understandable national concerns but also some narrow, commercial interests wishing to dilute these measures. we must keep our eyes on the long term and the enormity of the challenge. if we do not take action now, we turn our back on the very future of the planet.
mr president, like many here i welcome the report and congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has done so far. the compromise we have agreed and voted in the environment committee has resolved many points of difference between various colleagues in the parliament, but not all of them, as we know. like many, if not all here, i am a strong supporter of this proposal. it is developing into a flexible measure, it is market-based and it will definitely help the eu to achieve the co2 reduction targets that we have in front of us. this will also be at a reasonable cost, which must not be overlooked. with existing nationally-based schemes we are learning by doing, and we must continue to do so. therefore we must allow the schemes in front of us to come to a natural conclusion and allow some industrial installations to opt out and opt in, at least in the earliest phases of the new scheme. i will be pleased to see all six major greenhouse gases included. i will not be happy to see, however, limits on the allocation of allowances, on the introduction of an untried system of benchmarking, or on limiting access to international trading systems as foreseen by the kyoto protocol. they are measures that still need to be addressed. every journey begins with a first step. we should not underestimate the length of the journey that we are beginning today by starting on this legislation. we should not underestimate just how steep, stony and difficult the path is going to be, but i do hope, for all our sakes, and for the world, that we can set off on the right foot and in the right direction.
the commission. mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by thanking you for your valuable and constructive contributions to a very interesting debate. this is not the first time, and, believe me, it is certainly not the last time, that we are discussing action on climate change. let me start by putting this debate in the larger perspective, namely what we know about climate change. that there is climate change, we know that. the temperature increase in the 20th century is the largest in a thousand years. we know that the snow cover in the northern hemisphere has decreased by 10 percent since the late 1960s. we know that the thickness of the polar ice cap has decreased by 40 percent in just a decade. the scientists, we've brought together the world's leading climate scientists, say that to address climate change, we're going to have to go much, much further than the kyoto protocol does. we will therefore have to take more far-reaching measures than those we have discussed so far. we have ratified the kyoto protocol and the eu is now working on three different fronts. we are acting on the international stage by also influencing countries outside, such as the united states, to join. it is important to continue to push for good conditions and to achieve what is possible in the kyoto protocol. however, we also have to be credible at home, which is why we have launched the european climate programme. together with all the different stakeholders involved, we have identified the actions we need to take at home to be able to live up to our commitments and to be able to fight climate change in a cost-effective way. emissions trading is one such instrument. i would just like to add that we all realise that there will be costs to living up to the commitments under the kyoto protocol, but there will also be costs to inaction. to stand aside or to do nothing, like others, cannot be seen as part of creating a just condition. it is necessary to remember this. the trading of emission allowances is therefore one of the instruments we will need in the future. we have now spoken about major sources of emissions, but we also need to review transport systems and take effective action in this context in the future.
- i would like to thank you, commissioner, not only for taking part in this debate but also for your commitment to this area. the debate is closed.
- it is with great pleasure that i welcome a delegation from the great khural, the parliament of the republic of mongolia, headed by his excellency mr sanjbegziyn tumur-ochir, president of the mongolian parliament. the delegation members took their seats in the gallery of the distinguished guests. the visit to brussels by the president of the mongolian parliament is a great honour and further evidence of the strengthening of relations between the european union and the republic of mongolia. i am sure that the discussions between the members of the mongolian delegation and the various members of our parliament today and yesterday will have been fruitful and will serve to strengthen the bilateral ties between our two institutions. you are welcome. (applause) i would like to thank
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0285/2002), on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive amending for the 23rd time council directive 76/769/eec on the restriction of the placing on the market and use of certain dangerous substances and preparations (substances classified as carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic to reproduction) (rapporteur: mr nistichò).
commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his constructive work. this is an important directive as it would introduce a ban on substances that have been identified and classified as carcinogens, mutagens or substances toxic to reproduction, the so-called cmr substances. it is a very far-reaching proposal as it bans the sale of these substances and all their possible mixtures to the general public. the proposed directive will therefore encourage the marketing and use of safer alternatives. furthermore, the proposed directive provides not only for the protection of consumers' health but would also preserve the internal market. it would introduce harmonised rules throughout the community. the reasons for favouring an extension of the ban to products placed on the market for use by consumers are understandable. nevertheless, this requires an examination of whether there is a release of the substance from the product, and whether the release is high enough to create risks for public health or the environment. this latter aspect, the determination of risk, is lacking in the proposed amendments and the commission therefore rejects them for the time being. we need to know more about the possible risks from products. i can confirm that the commission will address the parliament's concerns by looking into this potential problem. the commission has already proposed to limit the risks on numerous occasions and currently, roughly 1 000 cmr substances and several thousand preparations containing cmrs are banned. one example is that of the azo-colorants that are well known carcinogens. in that case the use of such colorants was prohibited in a large number of products. however, the european parliament insisted that oriental carpets be excluded because the release of these azo-colorants remains below acceptable thresholds. the commission agrees because we too concluded that there was no significant risk to public health. in conclusion, the commission cannot accept amendments nos 1 and 2 but will consider the potential problem of cmr substances in products as a matter of urgency.
mr president, on behalf of the socialists i welcome this report which will place serious and proper restrictions on a number of very dangerous substances that are now known to be toxic, mutagenic or carcinogenic to human beings. we must push this report through. as regards the critical issue here, which is the extension of this ban to products, the socialist group fully supports the second amendment which proposes this idea. we recognise, of course, that further work needs to be done on this question. we must consider these products, the level of risk they present, their contact with human beings and the places where they are used. we believe, however, that this can happen further down in the legislative process. this amendment should be supported so that these discussions can take place.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place in a moment.
- the agenda calls for a vote.
- i was informed that you wanted to remove the words "adequate housing". is that correct ?
- the explanations of vote are closed.
- i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. approval of the minutes of the previous sitting - communication of common positions to the council - verification of credentials - request for the defence of parliamentary immunity - referral to committees - authorization to draw up own-initiative reports - transmission of texts adopted during the sitting - calendar of next sittings: see minutes. (the sitting was suspended at 12 noon)
mr president, it is a very wise decision of yours not to require us to have another committee meeting. that starts the week on a good note. however, you might like to ask somebody – i suspect it will be the inevitable mr corbett – to have a look at the rules, because they are rather strange. they state that: 'when over 50 amendments have been tabled to a report, the president may, after consulting its chairman, request the committee responsible to meet to consider the amendments.' that leaves you and me looking through a lot of amendments that can sometimes be rather confusing. what we need is either to have a stringent rule simply stating: 'when over 50 amendments have been tabled to a report, the president must request the committee to meet again', or else to drop this. as it stands, it leaves it between the two of us. i am only happy to say that i support your very wise decision.
mr president, i too think it is a wise decision and it shows that it is right that there be flexibility in this rule. it is an option open to the president after consulting the chair of the committee responsible, to be used when it will be useful and not to be used when it will not be useful. the proceedings today have shown that, even when it is not used, it serves a purpose in putting on pressure for amendments to be withdrawn, thereby saving the rest of us a lot of time later in plenary.
mr president, commission president mr prodi described the stability and growth pact last week as 'stupid, like all decisions which are rigid'. commissioner lamy is also on record as having described the pact as 'medieval'. aside from the questionable wisdom of using such strong language, especially to a newspaper from the country which is doing the most damage to what remains of the credibility of the stability and growth pact, one begins to wonder whether this is part of an orchestrated campaign. my question to the commission president is this: in making your remarks to le monde – and you have said that you stand by every word – was it your intention to launch a debate on how to reform the stability and growth pact? if so, that is a debate we welcome, but surely a debate which would better have been conducted some months ago. had the commission acted more firmly then, using the licence that we gave you when we invested you, its own authority and that of the stability and growth pact might have suffered less damage. in the current circumstances, no change is clearly not an option, but two principles must guide us. the first is that a well-run economy and a stable currency require taxes and spending to be in balance over the course of the business cycle. the second is that the rules are the same for all countries, large or small. those principles are at the heart of the stability and growth pact and my group expects them to be the starting point for any reform. if today marks the beginning of a debate on how to improve and strengthen the pact, what reforms do we need to give it renewed credibility? first of all let us be clear on what we should not do. we should not call into question the 3% limit for deficits as we hit hard economic times. if countries do not pay off their debts, then we will all pay the price in higher interest rates and a weaker currency. the liberal group agrees with mr prodi that the stability and growth pact must be applied intelligently. that is why we supported the commission's decision to allow two more years for countries to return their budgets to balance, because growth had been slower than expected. but we must not forget that postponement to 2006 came with strings attached in the form of a requirement to reduce structural deficits by 0.5% year on year. the liberal group believes that a new target for the structural deficit should be included in the stability and growth pact. that would increase pressure on governments to reduce their deficits in their good times so that they can allow borrowing to take the strain when times are bad. on that analysis, any intelligent interpretation would clearly conclude that france's recent budget makes no effort to reduce its structural deficit and is clearly in breach of the stability and growth pact. france must therefore face an early warning. that is what we would like to hear from the commission today. when the commission brings forward a proposal for such an early warning, then it will help to restore credibility to the pact. the liberal group agrees with you, mr prodi, that the stability and growth pact needs authority behind it to apply it. that is why we call for the commission to have the power to issue early warnings against countries which are breaching the rules, whether finance ministers agree or not. only if the pact has a strong policeman can member states be forced into taking corrective action while they can afford to. let us be clear. we will not support any reforms to the stability and growth pact which undermine the basic principles of fiscal responsibility and equality before the law. the end point of reform must be a strengthened stability and growth pact which punishes fiscal largesse and rewards countries which run their budgets responsibly. judging by the warm welcome which francis mer, the french finance minister, gave to your remarks in that interview, i fear that france will feel empowered to flout the rules. if you wish to have the authority to enforce the stability and growth pact, then you must earn that authority by acting promptly against france and any other countries which might be tempted to follow their example. (applause)
mr president, economies differ – that is just a fact. the stability and growth pact has to have a far more sophisticated interpretation. the background for this has to be sound public finances and a stable economy. furthermore, as you have stated, it needs to take into account the economic cycle for budgetary policy. also, further reforms have to be sustainable, measured against the country's debt profile. we must also allow for public investment, because that can lead to the growth that you referred to in the lisbon summit and not just deal with welfare. countries like the united kingdom for example after all those disastrous years of under-investment under tory governments, need to catch up and we must be able to let them do that. but the fact is that, as the old joke says, 'if you line up all the economists around the world head to toe, you may never reach a conclusion'. what we do not want is to line up the commission head to toe and find out that all that is left is inconsistency. let us change the stability and growth pact. let us make it flexible – you can help do that – but let us recognise that it has to be a sophisticated instrument in a real economy.
mr president, on a point of order, on zimbabwe, i am appalled to hear that last week coreper decided that the eu-southern african development community ministerial conference, scheduled for 7/8 november, is not now to take place in copenhagen but in mozambique. you will recall that this parliament had insisted that under no circumstances should the zimbabwean foreign minister be invited to the copenhagen ministerial conference, as this would be in flagrant breach of the eu travel ban. we never received assurances on this point and now we know why: european union foreign ministers have decided cynically to side-step their own eu travel ban. we shall now have the shameful spectacle of european foreign ministers travelling to africa for no other reason than to facilitate attendance at their meeting by the zimbabweans. this is grotesque and an affront to this house but, far more importantly, it is an insult to the terrorised and starving people of zimbabwe, whose lives and livelihoods have been destroyed by the actions of the mugabe regime. mr president, on behalf of parliament, i ask you to make the strongest representations to the president of the council expressing our disgust with this decision and seeking its reversal.
rapporteur. – mr president, the future status of the charter was one of the four key questions bequeathed to us by the now famous treaty of nice for consideration at the igc of 2004 and since laeken, it is a central question confronting the convention. this resolution, should it be passed, will represent a formal contribution to the convention from the parliamentary delegation. we have looked at the impact so far made by the charter as a solemnly proclaimed instrument and we have found that much use is made of it by the ombudsman, by parliament, by the commission and even sometimes by the council. we have found also some uncertainty among the citizens about the charter's scope as a solemnly proclaimed instrument. for the courts, the charter is already an important source of reference alongside the echr and the constitutional traditions of the member states. yet the national constitutional tradition referred to is already broad and, in a union of 25 plus member states, it will become improbably vague. therefore, we conclude that we must incorporate the charter firmly within the treaties, so that what is at present an important source of reference will become a central source. commission vitorino and his working group in the convention are considering the technical and semantic niceties that will be involved in incorporation and i look forward to hearing from him how successful the efforts of his working group are proving. this parliamentary resolution refreshes the political story of the charter. it says why incorporation in the treaties is important and why it should become mandatory upon the union and upon the member states, when and, in so far as, they put into effect european law and policy. it also says why the charter will become an important building block of the further development of the concept of european citizenship. as we enlarge, the charter succeeds in spelling out for all concerned why fundamental rights are so salient to bringing europe closer to the citizen. it proposes that we establish for ourselves our fundamental rights regime at the centre of the integration process so that it will stand as a jewel in the crown of our future constitution. i commend the report to parliament. (applause)
mr president, you will not be surprised that, as a british conservative, i am going to sound a slightly discordant note in these otherwise harmonious proceedings. i agree that it is right that all the institutions of the eu should observe the same standard norms, but i am still less convinced that such legal constraints need to be included in the convention. i also feel that they should not be enforceable by the eu on member states beyond the present commitment represented by their signatures on the european charter of fundamental rights. they should not apply to private companies, individuals or organisations, nor should they cover matters of social affairs, employment or cultural policy. we are being presented with a vehicle filled with good intentions. however, i fear we are also opening up a nightmare of duality in the appeal, on the one hand, the european court of human rights and, on the other, the european court of justice. we have cases changing from one to the other, profiting only the lawyers. i am sorry for those of my colleagues who are distinguished lawyers, i do not wish them any diminution in their profits, but this is not something we should encourage. recital v shows that this is already happening. the prospect of conflicting authorities being announced in the two courts is bureaucratically intolerable and a judicial nightmare. paragraph 2 also concerns me. the charter must bind the commission, the council, parliament and the committee of the regions, but should it be a 'central reference point for the european court of justice and national courts'? no, it should not be a central reference point of national courts. this is another indication of the potential for confusion. this confusion must be sorted out before this report is adopted. i urge parliament to reject this report and allow the committee to resolve it.
rapporteur. – mr president, firstly i should like to thank all those who have spoken, and especially those who agreed with the report. i also strongly congratulate commissioner vitorino for successfully brokering an agreement in his working group on the technical and semantic problems which have confronted some representatives of member states. on the question of the preamble, i quite agree and i will accept amendment 7. to my eurosceptic friends, i say that this is not some subversive plot. the charter carries great authority and legitimacy. what it lacks is clarity and legal certainty. it is precisely to ensure that we can improve the position as regards certainty and clarity that we are seeking its incorporation. we are not being shamefully silent, as mr crowley said, on the impact on national law. the charter primarily concerns the competences of the european union and the powers of the union authorities. finally, can i say that lord stockton and i find ourselves in appropriate political parties in great britain.
commission. - mr president, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the lambert report we are debating today concerns a proposal for a fundamental directive often referred to as the directive on the conditions for receiving international protection. i believe that this directive is the core of the common european asylum system, the need for which was underlined in the treaty of amsterdam and in the conclusions of the tampere, laeken and seville councils. the commission agrees with the european parliament that the harmonization of refugee policies at union level is indispensable and necessary. it is not just a question of harmonization: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. this is perhaps particularly the case with regard to the criteria for international protection. different national systems currently include different criteria for protection and sometimes a very different set of rights linked to refugee or subsidiary protection status. these differences in national systems lead to secondary movements, which is undesirable in relation to the member states of the european union as a whole. in order to create a situation of equal treatment, the proposal for a directive on the conditions for receiving protection includes rules for a common definition of both refugee and person eligible for subsidiary protection. it also includes rules on the rights to be granted to these two categories of persons. it ensures a minimum level of protection in all member states for all those who are genuinely in need of international protection, while preventing abuse of asylum claims which undermines the credibility of the system. the proposal is based on the presumption that international protection should only be granted by the member states if there is no effective national protection against persecution, irrespective of the source of that persecution. finally, it is important to stress that the subsidiary protection proposed in the directive is considered to be complementary to the protection regime enshrined in the geneva convention on refugees and should be applied in a way that does not undermine, but rather complements, the current refugee protection regime. the idea of the danish presidency, supported by the commission, is that this proposal, together with the regulation determining the member state responsible for examining an asylum application, the so-called dublin ii regulation, and the amended proposal for a directive on asylum procedures should be the subject of a rapid political agreement, namely to be reached at the end of november in the justice and home affairs council. the commission therefore considers it extremely important that parliament should adopt its position on the directive as soon as possible so that the council can discuss this subject in the light of your opinion.
rapporteur. – mr president, as we have just heard the proposed directive is effectively the linchpin of the common asylum policy, setting out the basis for minimum standards for people qualifying as refugees under the geneva convention and subsequent protocols, and also the criteria for people entitled to international protection under other international conventions and human rights legislation. i personally regret the decision to apply this directive only to third-country nationals and stateless persons, thus removing the eu member states from its scope, and i shall be voting for the amendments by the gue/ngl group to that effect. however, the basis of the commission's perspective is the need for protection and our responsibility to provide it. the majority of the committee on citizens' freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs supported the commission in upholding the 1951 geneva convention, which does not differentiate between different actors of persecution, and welcomed the move away from the narrow view held by some governments and parties that only state persecution creates official refugees. full application of the convention would take account of, for example, those suffering at the hands of the farc, a non-state agent of persecution in colombia, and would also cover political opposition in zimbabwe and countless other instances. we disagreed with the commission, however, on the point of protection being afforded by a state-like agency, such as the unhcr, and felt that this effectively imposed the duties of a state on a body that could not be held legally accountable. the majority of the committee chose to support amendments by the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, which strengthen the position of women as a social group liable to persecution in some countries, and have included the example of genital mutilation in line with a previous parliament decision on the issue. we also took the view that sex and sexual orientation should be taken into account when looking at the definition of a social group. this has been emphasised by the union under the copenhagen criteria and the treaty of amsterdam. we are well aware of recent cases of persecution in, for example, egypt and jamaica. the majority of the committee does not support the view that this directive should deal only with refugee status and that subsidiary protection could be dealt with at a later stage. we agreed with the commission and the unhcr that it was appropriate to deal with the two categories together and not just for administrative reasons. the complementary systems consider first of all whether a person needs protection. if they do, then their status needs to be defined. even a full application of the geneva convention does not meet all protection needs and that is why many member states have additional categories. it is not true to say, as some do, that those in the additional category necessarily stay for shorter periods or face less serious problems in their country of origin. if we are to have a common asylum policy, we have also to deal with these additional needs and it makes sense to deal with them together. we need a holistic approach that meets our international obligations and the needs of those we aim to protect. because we see the two groups as complementary, the committee majority chose to accord similar social rights to the two groups. it must be sensible to allow those who wish to work, train or acquire an education to do so. it benefits the individuals, our society and their country of origin on return and, by meeting basic social needs, we can avoid larger social costs. the eu's own social inclusion strategy recognises the links, for example, between poor housing, poor health and poor educational attainment. if this applies to our own nationals, it seems only reasonable for those entitled to international protection to benefit from an equivalent entitlement if we are to avoid creating social exclusion, contrary to our own eu policy. our committee also agreed by a majority to a definition of family that aims to maintain the principle of family unity and to embrace a wide definition of family. that is a familiar argument in this house. it seemed sensible to accord similar status to all family members, if only to avoid the bizarre situations which sometimes occur when one family member can be accorded refugee status and another, on the same information, is denied it. we also agreed to uphold the effective right of conscientious objection on the grounds of religion or belief – a right internationally acknowledged. in conclusion, i should like to thank all my colleagues for their serious work and commitment on this report, whether we agreed or not. the committee has made positive amendments to the commission's already sound proposals and i trust this position will be maintained in the vote tomorrow and supported by the council. a positive position there will be a strong assertion of treaty obligations and the humanitarian response of the european union.
mr president, i should like to respond to a few of the points that have been raised in the debate this evening. the first point concerns mr von boetticher's contribution, the first of the right-wing christian democrat hit-and-run contributors. he hits out at the left in the parliament, he hits out at the governments in the united kingdom and germany, and then he runs out of the chamber so that he cannot hear the debate. he runs away from the debate and he runs away from the reality. the reality is that there are millions of people in the world who are seeking sanctuary in the european union. it is a situation that needs a sympathetic response. it needs member states to look at the situation and to try to address the position with compassionate moves. this is why my group on this side of the chamber makes no apologies for supporting a common european asylum policy, believing that it is the only way forward for the european union. i say to those members opposite who say they are going to vote against these measures tomorrow and who, like mr coelho and mrs klamt, have said nice things about a common european asylum policy: you cannot say nice things about it on one occasion and then, every time there is a vote, vote it down. mr pirker has spelled out the objections but it is not being consistent when one member of your group, mr helmer, is writing that they should end the automatic rights or end the geneva convention and end the automatic right of entry for those deemed to be suffering from persecution. we need to be absolutely clear where they are coming from. on this side we are quite clear in our approach. we will support this report. we very much believe that there need to be minimum standards. there need to be proper standards for asylum seekers, to recognise that they are invariably desperate people seeking desperate measures to escape from the appalling situations in their own countries. we should be compassionate in the role that we seek to play. we should be compassionate in our reports. that is why i am very happy to commend the rapporteur on this and to congratulate the commissioner for bringing it forward.
commission. - mr president, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the commission i would like to congratulate mrs geneviève fraisse and the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport on this own-initiative report which has become, i believe, a tool for our action in the cultural field. i would like to comment on some of the points made in the report. first, the need to support the performing arts. as regards cooperation agreements, i am referring to action ii of the culture 2000 programme, we are currently supporting, for three years, six networks in the theatre sector, three in the dance sector, seven in the music sector, one in the circus sector and two interdisciplinary networks, to mention only the networks of the performing arts. in addition, in order to promote the creation of platforms, we have mentioned them in the context of the reflection on the future of cultural action at the forum for cultural cooperation in europe. this creation is therefore part of the current thinking on the future of the culture 2000 programme. secondly, the lack of statistics. the commission is aware of the need to strengthen the production of european cultural statistics and the eurostat cultural statistics group is already working on several themes: cultural jobs, cultural funding, cultural participation. quantifying data in the cultural world is not an easy task. it takes a lot of time. in addition, a eurobarometer survey on the participation of union citizens in cultural activities was carried out this year at the request of the commission. secondly, there is a need for measures to encourage the mobility of artists. that is really one of our major concerns. your report rightly emphasizes the importance of information on mobility support structures, tax and social legislation, and administrative formalities to encourage mobility. these concerns are shared by us and by the council, which is also considering a motion for a resolution on the mobility of artists. and i think it is very positive in this respect that the member states are themselves looking into these mobility issues, which are primarily their responsibility. the commission is now trying to encourage mobility in all its forms, as the creation of a common area free of all restrictions on movement has been largely achieved. we have recently published a study on the obstacles to mobility in the cultural sector, and the conclusions of this study are in line with those of mrs fraisse's report. this study was very well received by the cultural community. i would also like to point out that, as part of the action plan on mobility presented by the commission at the barcelona european summit, a major website on the mobility of europeans will be set up in 2003 and that the development of the 'culture' portal will enable the commission to offer an increasing amount of information on mobility in the cultural sector. we have asked for the cooperation of the states, so that artists can have a database for all countries. a word on tax matters. double taxation problems are relatively rare, as our study has shown. in the present situation, the member states are best placed to regulate the allocation of the tax right among themselves, taking into account each particular situation. the application of tax treaties concluded between states should eliminate the risk of double taxation. the fact remains that the states must apply the conventions in compliance with community law and must refrain from any discrimination. i can assure you that the commission does not and will not hesitate to take appropriate action in the event of such discrimination. you see, the commission is already doing a lot to promote mobility in the sector. its action is twofold: to ensure the application of community legislation and to encourage mobility in our financial instruments. your resolution and the council's will reinforce our efforts. all this does not, in our view, make the drawing up of a white paper necessary. as far as the circulation of works and performances is concerned, it is often linked to mobility, of course. there are specific objectives in this respect, such as those you mentioned: for example, the creation of databases for exchanging information on works. we are already seeing some activities in this area under agenda 2000. for example, culture base net is a project launched by the house of world cultures in berlin, in collaboration with swedish, british and danish operators, to create an internet database that presents artists from all over the world, starting with europe. you mention in particular the question of the free movement of theatrical equipment. we are not aware of any obstacles to free movement in these structures, but we attach great importance to the removal at national level of any administrative obstacles or bureaucratic complications in this sector. we must therefore be informed of any obstacles. in addition, in order not to impede the free provision of services, we ensure that states do not apply unjustified or excessive requirements. another aspect is training. as regards your request for a nomenclature of occupations, i should like to say that we are already making progress on this matter. eurostat is working, in collaboration with the member states in the working group, on the part of the international standard classification of occupations covering cultural trades, with the aim of improving and clarifying this nomenclature. as regards the recognition of diplomas, professions in the performing arts are in most cases so-called unregulated professions. this means that the recognition of qualifications for professional purposes depends on criteria established by the professions themselves. however, it is possible to facilitate such recognition, as well as recognition for academic purposes, i.e. for further studies. the commission has decided to create and promote instruments which make the content of studies carried out in other countries transparent. i am thinking of the tuition supplements and the academic credit systems. it also supports the reliability of mutual recognition by networking art schools in all european countries. as far as european financial support for artistic training is concerned, there is no specific programme, but our education programmes support such training and we are seeing encouraging trends. one example among many: the number of erasmus students in the arts field increased from 3 250 in 1998 to 4 700 in 2001, and any school recognised as a higher education institution in its country can apply to participate in these erasmus activities. finally, you stress the need for wider and stronger cultural cooperation, and in this respect too, madam rapporteur, your concern is our concern. there is, moreover, continuity in parliament's requests on this subject: i refer you to the ruffolo report. cultural cooperation is part of the enlargement process. what better example of this than the number of cultural operators from the candidate countries participating in the culture 2000 programme, which rose to 120 in just one year? we are also pleased to see that we are making progress in the area of intercultural dialogue. the project of creating a euro-mediterranean foundation for cultural dialogue is under way and, in the field of education and youth, we are moving more and more resolutely towards this theme. i thank you, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen of the committee on culture, for this report, which will be very useful in the current discussion on the future of the culture 2000 programme.
mr president, i speak as shadow rapporteur on behalf of my group. we congratulate mrs frays on her report and will broadly support its adoption. we have tabled two amendments which we hope the house will accept. the report constitutes a useful analysis of measures to encourage theatre and the performing arts throughout the eu, particularly focusing on the need for mobility. presaging the enlarged eu, the rapporteur's explanatory statement notes that the candidate countries could not support cultural programmes through the phare and tacis programmes but that artistic cooperation has been enhanced through the theorem programme, by which they gained access to the culture 2000 programme last year, as commissioner reding has just reminded us. in mrs fraisse's speech she drew attention to the need for vision and coherence in cultural matters in the eu and particularly in the enlarged eu. i very much support that. it is timely, following the commission's announcement of approval for the ten candidate countries to accede to the eu and this weekend's referendum in ireland, which cleared a potential obstacle to the enlarged eu. the eu's character is going to change very dramatically, particularly with the accession of the central and east european countries. culture surely has a huge role to play in this respect. to what extent does the existing programme deal with the years of collective amnesia in western europe, perhaps not so much in germany and austria, where there were always historical and family links, but in other countries where the shadow of the iron curtain still exists. bearing in mind mrs fraisse's call for vision and coherence, have we really done enough to bring home to the public in the present eu what completing the european family is going to mean, in the theatre and performing arts as well as other cultural fields? when stalin outlined his project for central and eastern europe, winston churchill's reply was ‘the eagle must let the small bird sing’. i wonder whether we feel today that all the institutions of the eu have done enough to let the small bird sing.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy. – mr president, i should like to offer my congratulations to the two rapporteurs on an enormously complicated and difficult task. they have highlighted – as will i – the importance of this industry a major employer of this industrial research base. it is so important to keep in the european union, both for the european union and, above all, for consumers who want safe, effective and affordable medicines. added to that are the complex needs of the sectors in the industry, of which there are at least three: the in-patent sector, the generic sector and the over-the-counter sector. many of the amendments are seeking to strike the correct balance between them. we have to encourage the in-patent sector to develop new medicines but the generic sector also provides affordable medicines. if you add to this the whole question of access and affordability on a global scale, you can see just how complex an area this is. i want to draw attention to just three points. one is the authorisation procedure. i am urging colleagues to accept duality, at least in the immediate future. mrs grossetête perhaps needs to re-examine the whole question of the centralised procedure and access. the fact that medicines are authorised does not mean that they are automatically placed on the market. this applies particularly to veterinary medicines. in their case i really believe that duality should continue. on the question of advertising and consumer information, i urge parliament to accept the amendment that asks the commission to look again at this issue. the commission is right – information is available to some, but not to all. that is almost beyond our control. on data exclusivity, the balance that the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy has come up with is the right one. i hope that parliament will look at it sensibly. we are going to have an important second reading and possibly a conciliation, so we still have time to try and get this even more right that we have done so far.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. – mr president, i wish to begin by congratulating the two rapporteurs. i would add my great thanks to mrs grossetête with whom i have worked extremely closely on this particular issue. i am only here to represent the committee on agriculture on the veterinary medicines side. it would be remiss of me if i did not say at the outset that one of the problems facing agriculture is that it is going through the worst time it has ever had – i will not mention the problems facing british beef today. any legislation that this parliament adopts and pushes through the commission could have a detrimental effect on industry if it is not put through correctly. mrs grossetête has worked extremely well with me and other members on the veterinary medicines bill and, therefore, we will totally support all the legislation in that bill. i would like to raise three issues. mrs read briefly covered one. i totally endorse what she says about what is termed 'duality'. one of the problems we have in the european union is that animals in the very far north, for example, are not necessarily the same as animals in the south. i use the term 'the reindeer syndrome', which many colleagues will have heard me say before. duality is something that will help to promote the proper use of medicines for species that are not found across the european union. it may be difficult to get someone to spend the money to test these products for one particular species. therefore, we have retabled amendment no 137, which i hope the commission and mrs grossetête will consider. i hope this house will consider supporting it. as i have mentioned, this would help those species that are not widespread. mrs grossetête mentioned the way that medicines are dispensed in certain countries. i am delighted that she has taken this on board. i fully support the compromise amendment, which is something i worked particularly hard in the committee on agriculture to get through. we are in a situation where member states differ, firstly, in their definition of what a veterinary surgeon is and what it means and, secondly, in the dispensing of these drugs. in many instances in the united kingdom, ireland and one or two other countries, qualified people dispense minor medicines – in particular, products such as worming pills and flea powders. the real worry is not particularly with food-chain animals. but, if this option is removed, we are in a situation where the pets in the animal world will suffer because people will not be able to afford to go to a veterinary surgeon, for example, to get a worming pill for a cat. therefore, it is important that we have flexibility. i am delighted that both rapporteurs have taken this on board and am totally in favour of it. the final point concerns the use of medicines for equine species. again, if we are not careful, we are going to inflict hardship on animals that do not deserve it. for example, horses are not eaten in the united kingdom. it may be that horsemeat is accepted in other countries. if the medicines available to us are restricted, then again it is the animal that suffers. therefore, it is vitally important that the new amendment no 65 for equine species is adopted. i shall leave it there, as i have covered the agricultural scene totally. i thank the two rapporteurs for taking on board the opinion of the committee on agriculture and look forward to a worthwhile result. i hope the commission will also follow my opinion.
mr president, in this brief time i would like to make two points, both in relation to veterinary medicines. in a way, they have been the poor relation in these debates because of the immense complexity of the situation with regard to human medicinal substances. firstly, i would like to warn against the commission's proposals under article 67 that all veterinary medicines intended for food-producing animals should be available on prescription only. some member states, including my own, have a well-established distribution system that allows medicines for which veterinary involvement is not considered necessary for safe and effective use to be obtained without a veterinary certificate. i can see why some professional organisations in some other member states would be opposed to that, but it has worked effectively for very many years in ireland as well as the uk. when we now look at the enlargement of the union, all kinds of problems will arise if we allow ourselves now to move towards a centralised system which allows only by prescription use of such medicines as are currently administered by qualified persons in countries like the uk. i therefore commend amendment no 43 to the house. my second and last point is that on the mandatory centralised procedures proposed by the commission, the committee decided to move to a more flexible system for human medicines, but did not follow that same route in terms of animal medicines. we should rectify that and we can do so through amendment no 171. finally, i would make the point that it is a mistake for the commission to propose that we remove the five-year renewal requirement for marketing authorisation. that is a safety precaution we should retain.
mr president, this is an area in which we have had considerable experience over the years, especially in respect of organophosphate pesticides, which are used as sheep dips and for a variety of other purposes. it is our experience that the licensing system in toto provides a false guarantee of safety, in that no predictive testing could accurately ascertain the full extent of toxicity and the potential health threat to humans or animals. thus the key to safety is an effective post-licensing surveillance system, sensitive enough to identify adverse reactions speedily and to enable swift and effective action to be taken. this requires effective administrative and medical systems, including diagnostic systems, in each member state. again, our experience is that these systems are far from adequate. we therefore believe that it would be better to focus on this area, rather than extend an already over-complex code.
mr president, i have admiration for the accomplishment of scientific research in developing medicines which have proved of great benefit. yet i also have a healthy scepticism towards both the pharmaceutical industry and our exaggerated confidence in some of its products, many of which cause a great deal more harm than the illegal recreational drugs which attract the bulk of public attention. for that reason, it would be wrong to place more unnecessary burdens and regulations upon food supplements and the health-food shops that sell them. many believe these products to be beneficial, and at least they do not cause harm. i regard homeopathic medicines in the same way. today we have more patients who are better informed than ever before – that is a good thing. i want people to have access to objective information about medicines and treatment. however, that is quite different from opening the door to the direct advertising of medicines. the result, i fear, will not be better public information, but greater public confusion, stimulated by the marketing techniques of a used-car salesman.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs for their work. as many colleagues have said, pharmaceutical products are like no other. we must guarantee that these products are all safe and effective. therefore, on the debate on the centralised procedure, i believe we must have flexibility. we should not restrict choice but allow for choice and support flexibility between the two routes. on the renewal of authorisation, i oppose the commission's proposal to remove five-year renewal of marketing authorisation and rely on enhanced pharmaco-vigilance to ensure product safety and, indeed, exclusivity. i think the compromise which has been reached is a fair one. i am delighted that the committee on the environment has rejected direct consumer advertising. we must be very clear that we all want patients to be informed. we all want patients to make informed decisions – no one can argue with this. but we cannot have what happens in the us, where the ten most advertised drugs are the ten best selling drugs. this is where the amendments adopted in committee requesting a report and the question of how information to patients is used and enhanced are so important. information to patients from the industry varies from excellent approaches and partnership with patients to situations where some patient organisations are being accused of being mere fronts for the industry. we must get the balance right. we have an opportunity in the review to do this, to improve research, to secure jobs, to improve availability of products to patients and improve information given to patients. it is an exciting time, and i look forward to the review returning for second reading.
rapporteur. – mr president, the aim of this regulation is to ensure consistency in the rules for travelling with pet animals, commonly known as the pet passport scheme. it is a very welcome development and very important to the lives of many eu citizens who have, in the past, been prevented from travelling because they could not take their pet animals with them. the fact that the commission has been able to bring forward such a proposal reflects the incredible success of the steps taken over recent years to control rabies. it is worth repeating the figures: cases among cats and dogs have fallen from nearly 500 in 1991 to just 5 in 1998. as the member states started to adopt their own rules for the increased movement of pet animals, it became clear that a european system was needed to make it easier for pet owners and avoid confusion. i am pleased that parliament's amendments, adopted in the common position, called for detailed information for consumers so that they can make the necessary preparations before travelling. i would like to draw attention to some of the key issues. first, the legal base. members will recall that this was one of the main issues at first reading. the commission proposed a double legal base, whereas parliament's view was that, since the main aim of this regulation was to protect public health, a single legal base should apply. however, following the receipt of the common position, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, has accepted the double legal base. secondly, trade. once the council has included measures on trade within the regulation, as requested by parliament, the distinction between commercial and non-commercial movement is still not defined clearly enough. under the council proposal, the maximum number of five animals that can be moved under this regulation is fine. but if the purpose of the regulation is primarily to protect public health, then the number of animals being transported is not relevant. we have therefore tabled amendments deleting the maximum number. thirdly, identification. parliament previously called for iso standard transponders to be used and for the owner's name and address to be included. the commission and the council proposals allowed for other types of transponders to be used, as long as the owner carried the means to read the information. as iso chips are not available in all countries, the committee on the environment has agreed to remove the requirement for iso standard equipment, but still wants the owner's details to be included. this would help combat trafficking in pet animals. we strongly believe that electronic identification is more effective, humane and reliable than tattoos and that, after the transitional eight-year period, only microchips would be acceptable. the fourth point relates to young animals. the committee has re-tabled the amendments preventing the movement of animals under three months old without the requirements of this scheme. this would not be applicable to the united kingdom, ireland or sweden, but it would apply to the other member states. i do not believe that it is possible for the authorities to carry out proper checks on young animals, for instance ensuring that they have remained at the place of birth or have not had any contact with wild animals. this therefore leaves a loophole for trade in puppies and kittens particularly. the fifth point concerns the involvement of parliament. several of our amendments relate to parliament's involvement in decisions such as the extension of the transitional measures for the three sensitive member states and to comitology -retaining parliament's right to be consulted. finally, the oie international animal health code. the committee has retained the requirement to take into account the oie code when deciding on the health status of third countries in the scheme. this has been a subject of some debate. i am aware that the council felt that the oie code would exclude large parts of the eu from free movement of animals, especially after enlargement. i also know that countries such as the united kingdom are moving away from rabies-free status because it would exclude, for example, canada and the usa, but the committee has decided to adopt a cautious approach. i believe that each of these issues can be resolved without too much difficulty and i ask parliament to support the position of the committee on the environment. i must say that i am disappointed that, despite my best efforts, an agreement could not be reached with the council before the second reading and i am very grateful to the shadow rapporteurs from the other groups, the representatives of the presidency and the commission for their cooperation in our discussions over the past three weeks. i believe that parliament has taken a very constructive approach and we will continue to do so in order to reach agreement as soon as possible.
mr president, this measure is of great significance in those countries – the united kingdom, ireland and sweden – which are now bringing their rules on the movement of pet animals into line with practices elsewhere in the community. like the rapporteur, i believe it is a pity that we could not reach agreement before the conciliation stage, but i understand the differences. some of those differences will be reflected in this debate, and i still have some minor differences with the rapporteur, which she has already acknowledged. for those countries which have prevented the entry of animals that may be at risk of rabies without a long period of quarantine, this is, in a way, an act of faith. it is made possible by the fact that we now have effective vaccination methods which can be indicated by the transponder chip. we have recently had representations from some members of the veterinary profession arguing for an extension of the tattooing principle and claiming that the transponder chip can be surgically removed or otherwise nullified. i cannot accept those arguments. there is broad agreement between the commission and all members of this house that we should move toward alignment. i share the rapporteur's concern that the movement of young animals, which must present at least some element of risk, should be subject to the same constraints as that of other categories. i have not been able to follow the arguments against that, other than that it may, somewhere along the line, affect the trade in animals. but, as the commissioner well knows, trade in animals, if it is not effectively handled, has led to the perpetuation of some serious abuses in the community in recent years. i do not believe this is a persuasive argument. i agree, however, with the commission and not the rapporteur on amendments nos 7, 8, and 9. it is counterproductive to introduce amendments which will effectively constrain the movement of animals between some existing member states, as well as extending the scheme – as the united kingdom and other countries with the current constraints would like – to countries that are not rabies-free. for the united states and canada, for example, we see no reason why there should be the further impediments set out in amendments nos 7, 8 and 9. we agree with the rapporteur, however, on the question of comitology. i welcome the commissioner's assurance that a suitable amendment allowing for reference to parliament at any process of review will be introduced. in conclusion, although this is a small measure to many and will not mean much to those countries where animals routinely cross internal eu borders, for those who cherish pets as lifelong companions it is a measure that will be greatly welcomed.
in writing. - the british labour meps of the pse voted for the lambert report. we are convinced that the european union must pursue a common asylum policy. this report on minimum standards is an important part of the development of this common policy. we reject the right-wing views of the epp conservatives who seek to restrict the right to asylum and protection. as socialists, we believe that it is essential to show understanding and compassion in our approach to the problem. working towards a common policy for 15 and eventually 25 countries will always involve some minor variations. we believe that these differences should not be used to divide us in our efforts to reach compromises. we should be proud enough to build this policy on the common elements that unite us. so while we as labour members of the european parliament may question certain aspects of the lambert report, the report is undoubtedly heading in the right direction overall. we therefore vote in favour of it.
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the members for their work. the positive outcome of the referendum in ireland brings us a giant step closer to enlargement of the european union. it is now up to the council to find a common negotiating position at the brussels summit this week on the financing issues, i.e. on the amount of money that can be allocated to the new member states in the budget of the european union from 2004 onwards. this also shows that the 2003 budget is very likely to be the last budget for a union of 15 member states. so we are more or less on the eve of enlargement. the 2003 budget will therefore present new challenges not only for the candidate countries but also for all the european institutions, which must prepare. there were serious differences between the council and the commission on this point, because the council had approved additional posts for 2003 for itself in preparation for enlargement, but had refused to do so for the commission. the council, in preparing for the brussels summit, has repeatedly made clear its expectations for the commission in 2003 with regard to preparations for enlargement, for example in the area of the structural funds. but that also requires staff. the commission is all the more grateful to the european parliament for having taken the initiative to respond to the commission's requests. i would like to pay tribute to the rapporteurs, and in particular to mr stenmarck and mr färm, for not only having pushed forward the idea of frontloading but also for actually pushing forward with vigour, step by step, the implementation of frontloading. i am also very grateful for your words, mr stenmarck. you made a promise, and you're going to keep it. we do appreciate it. i would like to thank the rapporteurs and the committee on budgets once again on behalf of the commission. the idea will now be put into practice in the form of an interinstitutional amending budget, and the very fact that there is an interinstitutional amending budget deserves attention. so, thank you for your support. the commission has already made a number of proposals. you know that the commission is following the same line as the european parliament, namely a restructuring of market-related expenditure and market organization towards a strengthening of rural development. the commission has made this very issue a central element in its midterm review proposals. we cannot, however, accept that these proposals should be implemented now, because the rules still exclude this and an increase in the rural development programme goes beyond what is currently provided for in the financial planning. but you also propose another amendment - and you have just emphasized this again, mr färm - namely to divide the budget lines for the export refunds on animals so that the refunds on live animals can be shown separately. i think that this can indeed be considered, as far as the legal bases allow. i share your concern to have more animal welfare, and the commission fully shares it. a third of the budget will be available again for structural policy next year. the implementation of the structural funds programmes was discussed at the september plenary session and mr färm made clear statements on this subject once again. they strongly advocated simplifying procedures to enable member states to obtain funds more quickly and easily. my colleague, mr barnier, who is responsible for this, has organized a seminar to find out what possibilities there are. it was also a further indication that the commission was very much involved in this matter. but of course the cooperation of the member states is also needed, and it is simply not satisfactory if the member states' forecasts of how much they can now implement, that is, use, in a year of structural fund funds are as far from reality as they have been in recent years. i should also like to point out that we must of course examine together whether the increased appropriations proposed by parliament are necessary for the structural funds next year. the commission can largely support the changes proposed by the committee on budgets in the appropriations for internal policies, for example the measures in favour of immigration and asylum policy and the measures in favour of small and mediumsized enterprises and the proposal in the field of information policy. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. there is no doubt that the commission attaches great importance to this global fund. the only question now is how much money is needed for 2003 and how to raise it. the commission continues to propose that half of the funds should be financed by the european development fund. i would also like to emphasize once again that the vast majority of the funds for this global fund have so far been raised by the european union, that is to say, on the one hand from community funds and on the other from bilateral funds from the member states. the external budget will continue to focus on aid to the balkan countries. the new budget for 2003 will include funds for the joint police missions in bosnia. the commission therefore planned to increase the budget for the common foreign and security policy by eur 10 million. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sure that by the time of the second reading of the budget a solution can be found to secure the financing of this important foreign policy action. as regards the new challenge for the eu budget to provide substantial assistance to afghanistan , the commission welcomes the agreement of the committee on budgets to establish an extra budget line. we welcome this also because this task of 'financing afghanistan' should naturally be reflected in the budget for the next few years. but that is precisely why we believe that this funding should be regularly in the budget and not be secured by the mobilisation of the flexibility reserve. however, the commission still sees the need to use the flexibility reserve, not least to provide financial security for the fisheries reforms next year and to provide portugal and spain with the necessary remaining funds for the restructuring of the fishing fleet. the budget for 2003 would be 1.05%, the same as this year, as a percentage of the total economic output of all the member states, according to the parliament's proposal. i mention this because the debates on the brussels summit are still very contentious. but according to the proposal on the table for financing enlargement in 2004, 2005 and 2006, even with ten more members, this share of the european budget in the european economic output will not return to the level of the mid-1990s. if we reflect on this again - the size of the european budget and the slight increase now envisaged as a result of enlargement - i must say that the dispute now being waged does not seem to me to be entirely justified, but there is a danger that in the matter of financing we will become very attached to individual issues and perhaps even get stuck. but we should bear in mind that the enlargement of the european union is a very good - a very good! - investment in the future. i would also like to appeal to the heads of state or government to reach a common position in brussels so that, after the positive vote in ireland, the roadmap for enlargement can be properly maintained. (applause from the centre)
mr president, i wish to join with the others in thanking our redoubtable duo, mr färm and mr stenmarck, for their excellent work on behalf of parliament during this budget procedure. they have both outlined that we are now thinking of a union which will be extended to at least 25 countries. for both parliament and the commission, enlargement is the main emphasis of this budget. i would like to express a personal view. i hope that in future we will avoid too many referenda and too many votes being taken on particular subjects. it might become contagious in this house and we might adopt a resolution and then consider voting again because we have reached the wrong conclusions. that said, i should like to refer to parliament's and the commission's budget. our group has strategies for both these budgets, and they have by and large been implemented as we reach the current stage of the budget procedure. on parliament's budget, we would like to emphasise the need for extended provision for freelance translation – because this is going to be an important factor in the years ahead. we are pleased that early retirement has been extended to the political groups, and thank the council for that – even if it is absent from this debate this afternoon. we would like full transparency in the council in future and for all its legislative discussions to be open to the public. these are questions which all our group supports. on the commission budget, there are four relevant points. firstly, on payments and backlog, we would like to see a real effort being made to reduce the eur 110 billion in commitments. we are asking, as stated in the resolution, for a report from the commission as to how it is going to achieve this objective of eliminating outstanding commitments. secondly, on internal policies, we are still looking for better value for money and for some of the monies for information policy to be retained in reserve, because we would like to see savings on administration and human resources. we expect a report from the commission on this subject by 30 april 2003. thirdly, on external policies, we would like improved accountability. therefore, we are supporting the appeal by our rapporteur for more information concerning the interinstitutional agreement between the council, parliament and the commission on the expenditure of money on foreign and security policy. we would also like to know what kinds of expenditure the council is expecting over the next five years, because we also agree with the rapporteur that it is unhealthy to think that the council is going to be involved in large expenditure of funds which would not be subject to normal accountability and use. equally, we are asking the commission to come forward with some form of thought process. there seems to be some lethargy on the part of the commission when it comes to thinking through what kind of priorities we should have for foreign and security policy in the future. lastly, my group would like me to say that we want to see this reform process completed and we need to look at how this whole process is being conducted. we are convinced that progress has been made but we are not yet convinced that this whole programme of reform is going to be implemented. we would like to know that you are out there selling it to the general public and that these reforms will be completed by the end of next year, as the most recent reform document from the commission stated. but, before we approve the new posts, we would very much like to see the reform elements in place and to know you are convinced that this whole reform process will be completed. if this is not done so by the end of the current term of the commission and parliament, we will be in breach of the commitments we made to our electorate to ensure that real institutional reforms are carried out.
mr president, after 15 minutes from mr färm and 10 minutes from mr stenmarck and all the other contributions, there is not much left to say. i was giving evidence recently to one of the subcommittees of the convention, chaired by mr amato, on simplification. i made the point that the language of the budget is probably the twelfth language in this institution. listening to this debate, where the words 'ramassage' and 'frontloading' are being used so often, it seems as though they have become part of the everyday lexicon of our budget language. i also said that we need only one reading of the budget, and that would simplify the whole process. had that system applied today, i am sure we would not have voted for the budget that we now have. i say that because a lot of people are concerned about the way in which this budget will be voted on thursday. i do not just mean the commission and the council, but colleagues from a variety of parliamentary committees. i want to make one point absolutely clear to anyone who shares these worries: this is, after all, a first reading to show we have political priorities and to put some pressure on the council, it is not the end of the story. these concerns have arisen because of what the committee adopted. we exceeded the ceilings in three categories – in category 1b we will have to see how parliament votes on thursday. on category 2, we are duty-bound to find a solution with the council. on category 4, we also need to find a solution together with the council. that is why the decisions have been taken in category 4, to try to ensure that there will be real dialogue with the council to solve some of the political problems in that area. as others have said, the ceiling on category 4 has been a problem ever since we concluded the interinstitutional agreement. every year since then we have had to use the flexibility instrument. some may agree with mr seppänen that the agreement is stupid. i am one of those who voted for it. that might make me stupid, but the reality is that this parliament agreed it, and we have to live with it and within its restrictions. i hope that when it comes to the next interinstitutional agreement we will have learnt lessons from this one, especially in category 4. however, this time the needs in category 4 – especially in the areas of afghanistan and the global health fund – have to be sorted out. on the global health fund, there are certainly big differences of opinion between the commission, the council and ourselves. to make it worse, at least one member state is asking us to find the extra eur 65 million, which complicates matters when we know what the council's position is already. when i say it has to be sorted out, i mean we have to find a real solution with the council, not going into a conciliation or trialogues and playing the usual games. we have serious problems in these areas and we need a real sense of cooperation. it must be said that we have had a good working relationship with the danish presidency. we should not condemn the danish presidency for not being here. they have apologised to me and explained that they have other commitments. the fact that the president-in-office sat for 4 ½ hours at our last meeting showed his commitment. they have been quite good in the way they have worked with parliament. they have respected parliament and parliament's will. the danish presidency has been good to work with. as mrs buitenweg said, the presidency has also been good today, even in the videoconference on the european solidarity fund. but let us hope that those good relationships can continue as we go into the next conciliation, prior to the second reading by the council. i also made the point at the convention that, in contrast to the american war of independence, where the cry was 'no taxation without representation', we in this parliament have the luxury of having representation without taxation. that makes the council often think that we are profligate with taxpayers' money. the message we need to give to the council is that the budgets we vote here are serious and prudent, but they have political priorities. i hope that, in december, we will have achieved some of those political priorities. (applause)
madam president, on behalf of the budgetary control committee, i would also like to congratulate the two rapporteurs, who, i know, have done an immense amount of work on their reports. also the chairman of the committee on budgets, terry wynn, for the way he expedited the votes in some highly-charged discussions recently. it is good to get all the work through so rapidly, and i thank him for the way he did that. my committee was mainly concerned with four areas. the first was olaf, europe's anti-fraud office. i believe that we have sorted out the problem all the parties in this house had in finding a suitable wording for an amendment about olaf's funding for the coming year. but we still have concerns about the dialogue between the commission and olaf in the budget process. realistically, i am particularly worried that it poses questions about olaf's independence; it is part of the commission in this process and we can amend its budget in that way. the second area was export refunds, something on which mr mulder, the previous speaker, is an expert, as is mr casaca from the socialist benches, and a subject i know very little about. i understand that they are relatively happy with the outcome of the amendments they tabled in this field. thirdly, we were interested in the protection of the euro against counterfeiting, concerned about the valuation of the euro because so much could have been counterfeited. perhaps we should have been more worried about the bizarre comments by the president of the commission and tabled an amendment about that. fourthly and more importantly, we were very concerned about the reform agenda within the commission and that is why i draw the attention of members across all the parties to the amendments to the färm report, especially in relation to commission reform. the commission's former chief accountant has drawn our attention to a number of concerns about the computer systems and how to ensure that our taxpayers' money, our national governments' money, is being spent correctly if the computer systems used do not support each other or provide proper figures. no doubt we shall come back to this in future debates, but those were the main concerns raised by the budgetary control committee.
madam president, as draftsman for the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, i am broadly happy with the position the committee on budgets has taken on our amendments. i should like to thank mr färm for his help and support. i am particularly glad that we have maintained my amendments on the security of our eu delegations. i believe that is of tremendous importance. i am also glad that we have managed to restore the cuts on the human rights and democracy line. i understand the strategy of the rapporteur in relation to afghanistan. i would just like to make sure it is clear that nothing is going to undermine our commitment to reconstruction in afghanistan. i am disappointed, however, that my amendment on landmines was not accepted – the eur 3.15 million – because that would take us up to the amount to which we had originally committed ourselves. the line on landmines was very much a european parliament measure. i would hope that we can, in our voting, consider restoring that figure because it would take us up to what we originally proposed. i am disappointed at the amendments whereby eur 15 million for palestine is put on reserve under some interesting conditions. i would hope that we could put all the money for palestine above the line.
madam president, once again this year we have been struggling with the strict ceiling on category 4, given ever-increasing demands arising from growing international instability and a consequent diminution of the poverty focus of eu aid to developing countries around the world. but the whole parliament – not just the committee on development and cooperation – has been clear that development is a political priority overall in this year's eu budget, with support for the global fund against aids, tb and malaria. the council in its may resolution says it is committed. the commission says it wants to retain its board seat. yet the eur 120 million contribution last year is reduced to a proposal of just eur 35 million for next. no, parliament does not want the european union to provide the minimum possible. it recognises that aids/hiv is the most serious challenge to humankind today; that the united nations has declared at least 7 billion is needed worldwide; and that proposals amounting to 5 billion have already been tabled. the global fund represents a bold new approach – fast-moving, participatory and accountable. the european union must demonstrate that it can achieve the same vision, imagination and commitment by significantly raising its own financial contribution and offering real european leadership in tackling the most devastating global challenge of our times.
mr president, i am pleased that the committee on budgets has endorsed so many of the amendments by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, in particular budget line b7-524 – assistance in the nuclear sector. we call for an appropriate sum for cancer equipment in the republic of belarus, which is still significantly affected by the consequences of the chernobyl nuclear power plant accident in adjacent ukraine. up to 23% of its territory was contaminated; about 2 million people – including 500 000 children – live in the radioactively contaminated areas. the sickness rate in the contaminated areas has grown dramatically. for instance, the number of children under the age of 18 suffering from thyroid cancer is 50 times higher now than before the accident. among the adult population, the growth of the number of thyroid-gland cases has increased fivefold. the most effective method of controlling these tumours is high-dose-rate brachytherapy, which minimises exposure to radiation of healthy organs and tissues during radiation treatment of malignant growth. high-dose-rate brachytherapy requires high-tech equipment and, due to the high acquisition and maintenance costs of this equipment, belarus needs assistance. we should not let our very real concerns over democracy and human rights in belarus prevent us from helping its children.
madam president, if you want to find out what is really important for a person, do not ask them. just ask to look through the stubs on their chequebook or the entries on their credit card account and you will find out. this afternoon we are actually looking through the stubs of the commission's chequebook and what do we discover? eur 2.4 billion spent on olives but eur 240 million on the socrates education programme for the european union. as budget rapporteur for the committee on culture, i cannot but help notice that we spend one tenth of the money on education that we spend on olives. on information for enlargement, the commission proposed eur 14 million in the budget – a good sum you might think, until you see that the subsidy proposed for bee keeping was eur 16.5 million. i am not criticising support for bee-keeping, but i think that this parliament was right to increase the amount that the commission wanted for information on enlargement from eur 14 million to eur 21 million. if people in the candidate countries and the existing countries do not understand enlargement, then we shall only have repeats of the problems that we experienced in ireland. on that eur 21 million, the budgets committee accepted the proposal from the committee on culture that eur 1 million should be set aside for training future meps from the candidate countries. we had the president of hungary here this morning, which shows that clearly politicians from the candidate countries are looking forward to joining this parliament and they need training to be able to do that properly. i am also pleased that we have been able, if this budget is now passed, to reinstate the amount of money for e-learning, namely eur 17 million as opposed to the commission's proposal of eur 9 million. it is not just that our budgetary priorities are wrong, the system is also wrong. i will pay tribute to the support we have had from the budget rapporteur this year and from the commission, but the council is absent this afternoon. it has been absent from discussions with the committees looking at the proposed budget. it really should be ashamed of its position in this respect.
if commissioner patten or his office take this view, then why have they so strongly resisted the initiative by myself and members from other political groups to raise signatures in this house to request that parliament set up a committee of inquiry into these very grave allegations? if what he says is correct, surely such a body would vindicate his position, clear the air and reject these ongoing allegations of funding of terrorist activities by the plo, but also, perhaps more insidiously, the funding of race hatred and the brainwashing of young palestinians in their schools, which furthers long-term animosity and potentially creates future suicide bombers?
commission. – as rightly pointed out by the honourable member, there are increasing concerns about the treatment of animals at livestock markets. it is the commission's intention to cover this area when proposing new legislation on the protection of animals during transport before the end of this year. practical experience and scientific knowledge are today available to help the commission in doing this. in particular, the commission's objective is to ensure that member states ensure that animal welfare considerations are an integral part of the operation of livestock markets. acts of cruelty or negligence observed in some markets are the result of operators' ignorance and insufficient supervision by the competent authorities. therefore, the commission believes that it is necessary to increase the training of personnel handling animals at markets. the commission also considers that market operators should be primarily responsible for securing respect of welfare rules. they should be accountable for welfare rules as they already are for animal health rules. however, it should be remembered that day-to-day enforcement is the responsibility of the member states. substantial improvements can already be achieved under the current national provisions. it is not the role of the commission to supervise livestock market operations but to ensure that member states respect the eu provisions in this regard.
i should like to thank the commissioner for that answer and to encourage him, when preparing that draft legislation, to examine whether or not there is a case for phasing out livestock markets entirely. i believe that in certain countries they have virtually ceased to exist. after all, it is not just a question of animal welfare, it is also a question of the spread of disease. perhaps in the modern age such markets are no longer the best way of dealing with the trade in animals. if the commission concludes that they must remain, then they should be properly regulated. i welcome what the commissioner has just said, but does he agree that it should apply not just to the transport of animals that fall to some degree under the existing directive but to the protection of all animals that pass through such livestock markets?
commission. – the commission attaches great importance to the correct removal of specified risk material, since it is one of the most important ways of protecting the health of consumers against the related risk of bse. in addition to being an unacceptable threat to health, these incidents also serve to undermine consumer confidence in the effectiveness of the community measures relating to bse. according to regulation 999/2001 of the european parliament and of the council of 22 may 2001, laying down rules for the prevention, control and eradication of certain bses, specified risk material must be removed at the slaughterhouse or, in case of the vertebral column of bovine animals, at the cutting plant. carcasses, half-carcasses and quarter-carcasses containing no specified risk material other than the vertebral column may be dispatched to another member state. in the latter case, the removal of the vertebral column should take place at the cutting plant in the member state of destination. shortcomings in the proper implementation of the removal of specified risk material, in particular spinal cord, have been reported in carcasses produced in different member states: germany, spain, france, the uk, netherlands, austria, belgium, denmark, ireland and italy. the commission has on several occasions reminded the member states of the importance of properly implementing the removal of specified risk material. in the case of recurrence, the commission has requested strong action, such as suspending the licences of the plants responsible or introducing corrective measures. the commission has requested that it be informed of the corrective measures taken. in subsequent inspections carried out by the food and veterinary office on bse and bse-related matters in the member states, the removal of srms has been found to be reasonably satisfactory, with minor deficiencies relating mainly to technical and operational difficulties. the commission is also funding a research project to find alternative and more effective ways to remove the spinal cord. this project is nearly finished. the commission is closely following the situation and will, if necessary, remind all the member states of the obligation to remove the spinal cord of bovine animals aged over 12 months. implementation of the corrective measures notified by the member states to remedy the situation will be further assessed by the food and veterinary office. finally, it should be borne in mind that the vertebral column is currently defined as specified risk material in carcasses from bovine animals aged over 12 months in all member states except portugal and the united kingdom. any remnants of spinal cord in the vertebral column should therefore already have been automatically removed as specified risk material at the place of destination before sale to the consumer.
i note your remarks with interest, commissioner, and am delighted to hear that the commission takes this issue seriously, but your role as i see it seems to be confined to reminding member states, requesting strong action and then requesting to be informed. with respect, do you feel that is satisfactory or do you feel that the public will find that satisfactory, because these are problems that are recurring? since i tabled this question, literally in the last couple of weeks, we have had an example in the uk of germany once again breaking the rules by sending no less than its 13th consignment of meat containing banned spinal cord to the uk. has the commission no powers to do anything more than request or remind? if it does not, should it not have such powers? how much longer will it go on requesting and reminding before some action is taken by somebody?
commission. – the commission recognises that diabetes is a chronic disease that poses a major public health challenge to the community. its causes are closely linked to the health determinants of diet, obesity and physical activity. these determinants are clearly linked, and a separate approach to each is not likely to be successful. the treaty limits the competence of the community in the field of public health by stating that community action must fully respect the responsibilities of the member states for the organisation and delivery of health services and medical care. as regards diabetes, the work of the commission has therefore concentrated on encouraging cooperation between member states through public health programmes. through these programmes the commission has encouraged policy development and measures related to the determinants of type 2 diabetes, namely nutrition, obesity and exercise. in the new public health programme entering into force on 1 january 2003, attention is given to improving data collection on key health indicators such as nutrition-related mortality and morbidity. emphasis is also placed on developing common strategies on health determinants such as nutrition. the existing health promotion, health monitoring and cancer programmes have provided concrete support to a variety of initiatives on diet, nutrition, obesity and physical activity. for example, the support given to conferences such as those held under the french and danish council presidencies on the issues of nutrition and obesity. the eurodiet report on nutrition is now published and available on the commission website, making it available to a wide international audience. the european prospective investigation into cancer (epic), financed by the cancer programme and carried out by the international agency for cancer research in lyon, is another major initiative on the links between diet and disease. the project, supported by the health promotion programme sli na sláinte, is an initiative to promote physical activity as part of a prevention strategy. all of these activities will have had an impact on the prevention of diabetes. a status report on the place of nutrition in all commission policy areas, not only public health, will shortly be finalised and published. taking account of the limits set out in article 152 of the treaty, the commission does not intend to set up a specific priority plan related to diabetes. instead, the approach followed by the new public health programme is designed to ensure a complementary and horizontal approach to prevention, rather than the old approach of looking at diseases by means of separate and individual programmes. the new programme is policy-driven and aims to promote policy and activities on health determinants that will have an impact on key challenges such as type 2 diabetes. through its framework research programmes the commission has supported diabetes research in the past. significant financial support has been made available for this type of research. in the fifth framework programme, diabetes research was covered under the quality of life and management of living resources programme. the total funding has been more than eur 18 million. diabetes research continues to be a priority in the upcoming sixth framework programme under the first priority thematic area 'life sciences, genomics and biotechnology for health'. research funds will be distributed on a competitive basis following calls for proposals, and information will be made widely available, for example on the research website. in addition to support for research projects, the sixth framework programme will provide funds for fellowships as well as for networking of national diabetes research activities under the chapter 'strengthening the foundations of the european research area'. that aspect is considered particularly important in order to contribute to the creation of a european research area. finally, it should also be mentioned that foods presented as designed to satisfy the particular nutritional requirements of people with diabetes should currently comply with the requirements of council directive 89/398 on foodstuffs intended for particular nutritional uses. the commission intends to present a report to parliament and the council on the desirability of special nutritional provisions for people with diabetes. may i take this opportunity to wish every success to world diabetes day on 14 november. i hope to be able to join with those who are promoting this when the diabetes testing and awareness campaign is launched here in strasbourg on 19 november.
commission. – it is certainly true that the costs related to any health care are increasing day by day and year by year in the member states. the fact of the matter is that public health professionals and, indeed, some governments are now giving more attention to investing more in health promotion and disease prevention. the emphasis in the past has all too often been on spending large sums of money on health care. if this change takes place, as your question implies, that will greatly affect the issue of diabetes, on which you focus particularly in in your question, but also other diseases. i firmly believe that, when the public health programme is up and running under the three-stranded approach from january 2003, valuable information and data will be gathered under the first strand. then, under the strand of health determinants, we will be able to promote the healthy lifestyle and balanced food intake that you mentioned in your supplementary question. i am looking into the correlation between, for instance, diseases like obesity and food, and i hope to report the results between now and the end of the year.
as the parent of a diabetic daughter, can i support the honourable member in her plea for commission action and particularly congratulate her on the initiative that she and mr bovis are taking to bring this to the attention of parliament. because of the rise in the number of sufferers from this disease, there is often conflicting advice about the various treatments. yet we hear almost daily of new research developments, both palliative and surgical. does the commissioner not agree with me that we need to to be able to offer the citizens of the european union clear guidance about the progress of research? the commission and the european union could play a significant part in ensuring that the rise of this disease is matched only by the information about how to treat it and how to avoid it in the first place?
mr president, despite attempts to make them otherwise, security and defence are matters for the european council. this parliament has no competence in that area, either legislative or budgetary. furthermore, it has to be said that, within the context of the treaties, the function of this parliament is to scrutinise the commission. its responsibility does not extend to the scrutiny or review of council activities. scrutiny of council members remains the responsibility of individual national parliaments. it is to them that their individual ministers are responsible. only those parliaments can hold ministers to account. on that basis, it seems to be a measure of the self-importance of the members of this parliament that they are seeking information that is not in the public domain. i would say that it is none of their business. parliament should not be asking for it, and the council should not give it. this also has wider implications. the information is not to be given to all members but to a select and privileged cartel within this parliament. furthermore, those who receive that information are to be sworn to secrecy and can be disciplined for breaches of confidence. there cannot be a better way of muzzling representatives of the public. the central point is that, if the primary role of parliament is scrutinising the commission, then that is exactly what it should be doing. time allocated for debates on these matters is already ridiculously short, and scrutiny is therefore minimal. it would be far better if the house concentrated on its statutory duties, rather than poking its nose into areas which are none of its business. in pursuit of more information, therefore, it would be much better if it devoted its energies to pressing for more transparency and openness from the commission.
mr president, as we are political anoraks in the committee on budgetary control and there are a lot more people listening to us tonight, i will try and explain to them what is going on because budgetary control and discharge are really not terms that normal people understand. one of the primary tasks of the european parliament is to assess the way the commission is functioning. we are here to make sure that the commission carries out its work properly. therefore when people say that the commission is unelected, we can tell them that we keep the commission under control and hold them to account. one of our formal responsibilities is to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget. we have to be able to account to the people who elect us and explain to them how their money is spent. the committee on budgetary control is the principal committee responsible for leading this task on behalf of the european parliament: we scrutinise budget lines, follow up potential scandals, we see how the money is being misspent and we try and find out why processes are so complex and cumbersome. it was the discharge procedure that ultimately led to the forced resignation of the commission back in 1999. that is what started the whole process. however, there is a danger – we must not be naive about what is going on – that the whole process could be hijacked for more sinister and for more political motives. it has become almost established practice within the committee on budgetary control to postpone the discharge and to ask for more information. that means that there are now three options. in the past there were two options: we could give or refuse discharge. now, as mr bourlanges has explained, we can give, refuse or postpone discharge. it is much easier if we have only two options and that is what is being put to us today. the commissioner has a point when she says that the commission could probably comply more quickly. i do not see this october part-session as the date by which we have to have the answer. that is the latest point at which parliament gives its decision. we do not have to stick to october, but we have to do it by october. that is a slightly different interpretation. it is clear that we all want to complete it before the summer. it is also right that the commission should have this additional breathing space, because if members refuse discharge and want to criticise the commission, then it needs time to try to put things right. the new process will also ensure that the process does not go on and on. that is what has happened in the past. it is what happened in the 1996 discharge – it just carried on. we are giving you an end date, we are telling parliament that by this time it has to decide one way or the other. that is why this system is much better. the situation is clearer and the process will not be hijacked for political aims.
rapporteur. – mr president, while my report welcomes the commission's communication, it is also constructively critical in a number of important respects. the report emphasises three horizontal issues of great importance to the success of the strategy. first, the lack of an action plan. the strategy suffers from an unacceptable imbalance and a lack of strategic vision for follow-through. the initial analysis is basically good but the proposals for action are often little more than a description of an issue. where they propose action, they are often vague, and there is virtually no indication of resources or the timing of the strategy's implementation. for example, the communication presents a good analysis of the changes being brought about by the increasing feminisation of society and the impact of an ageing population, but then proposes virtually nothing by way of action. the report therefore calls for an action plan with timing commitments against each major proposal, for such a plan to be endorsed by parliament's committee on employment and social affairs in time for the spring 2003 european council and for it then to be subject to annual monitoring through the social agenda scoreboard, as advocated by the council. parliament and the advisory committees would also need to be involved in this monitoring process. this is a serious point and i know the commissioner will be listening to it. i call upon her to give a clear indication tonight that there will be a positive response to this call. if not, i have a clear mandate to ask for this report to be referred back to committee, where it will be reformulated to reject the commission's strategy. the second major horizontal issue is a lack of resources. in 1992, some 130 officials were working on occupational health and safety within the european commission. today, that number is down to around 24. we might disagree over the precise numbers but the commissioner would agree there has been a dramatic reduction in the number of staff working in this area. this is not a basis for the kind of dynamic and proactive administration that would be required to implement the strategy, capable of responding to a changing policy environment while continuing to monitor and scrutinise the implementation of existing legislation and policy measures. it is essential that this trend is reversed and that adequate resources are allocated to this policy area within the commission. the third major horizontal issue in the report highlights a lack of balance between legislative and non-legislative instruments. i am concerned that the development of non-legislative instruments should in no way be seen as an alternative to maintaining and improving community legislation on occupational health and safety. specific instances are given where the gaps and deficiencies in the existing legal framework need to be addressed and where comprehensive approaches to legislation, rather than ad hoc tinkering, will be important for both established and new risks. turning to the specifics of the report, there is clearly not enough time to deal with them all, so i shall highlight only a few. first, the report makes the point that, given how much more problematic health and safety are in small and medium-sized enterprises, it is regrettable that the commission has still not launched a multiannual sme programme based on the two years' preparatory action undertaken by the bilbao agency on the initiative of the european parliament. such a programme was supported by the commission in the european social agenda endorsed at nice. it would facilitate the testing, analysis and dissemination of successful measures in this critical sector. i very much hope the commission will respond positively now. second, in terms of emerging risks, i hope the commission will look at the need for new laws in areas such as harassment at work, recently called for by parliament. equally, in relation to repetitive strain injuries, i hope it will revisit the display screen directive – the directive does not even mention the computer mouse – and the directive on manual handling. i hope it will go further and accept our call for a comprehensive directive on workplace ergonomics. the report also highlights a number of existing directives that are in need of revision. the commission needs both commitment and resources to tackle that work. reflecting the helpful opinion we received from the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, the report advocates the integration of a gender dimension throughout the strategy and highlights a number of specific strands of work to be tackled. the report also welcomes benchmarking, but it takes the view that a successful benchmarking approach will need not just more comparable and reliable data but also a harmonised system of definitions, recording and reporting of occupational injuries and diseases. my final point is that the report also welcomes the proposal to codify and simplify existing community legislation in this field, so long as that is not coded language for deregulation for deregulation's sake. i am not accusing the employment and social affairs directorate-general of that, but there are forces elsewhere in the commission that have that tendency. in committee i even went as far as to propose a joint amendment with mr bushill-matthews saying that the review of the legislation should be used as an opportunity to promote the simplification of legislation and its repeal when it is redundant. none of us here should have an interest in maintaining redundant legislation, nor in making legislation complicated rather than as easy as possible to understand and implement. i hope the commissioner can give us the assurance we need on this action plan.
commission. – mr president, i would like to thank mr hughes and particularly the committee on employment and social affairs for their close cooperation. the communication entitled 'adapting to change in work and society: a new community strategy on health and safety at work for 2002-2006' is a strategy on health and safety for the period in question. it is a new strategy which includes some key new elements. these elements concern the quality of work and the need to combine a variety of different political instruments such as legislation, social dialogue, progressive measures and best practices, corporate social responsibility and economic incentives. of course, the basis of the analysis is that health and safety issues are related to competitiveness and there is always a cost when we neglect social policies. the main points in this communication are as follows. firstly, and i think this must be very clear, it is not just a proposal from the commission, it is also a community strategy, so there is a need to include all the european partners including, at political level, the european, national and regional authorities. at operational level, it concerns the social partners and, at the level of services, it concerns all institutions dealing with health, prevention services and insurance organisations. a very interesting point in this communication is the question how we can develop the prevention culture. there are, of course, a number of priorities concerning the need to reinforce our capacity for risk surveillance and the need for better legislation. i totally agree with the need for simplification and codification, which is one of the commitments in the commission strategy. there is also a need for cooperation between the commission and the national authorities as far as the implementation of the strategies is concerned and, at the same time, for cooperation at international level. i have tried to outline in a few words the main points of the communication, because i believe that responding to mr hughes' specific remarks will make for a more interactive debate. the committee on employment and social affairs made some specific proposals, many of which the commission has worked on and taken into account. some of the proposals could perhaps be examined in greater depth. we could be more precise in terms of the timetables and description of the activities that must be carried out, and could do this in a meeting with the committee on employment, when we can discuss the activities and proposals of the strategy individually, particularly the five points referred to by mr hughes. firstly, there is the issue of smes, which was raised in the report. you are aware of the problems we have with the safe programme. thanks to parliament we now have a specific budget in bilbao for smes and we can discuss the details for implementing this project as well as the timetable. regarding legislation on stress, an analysis has been undertaken. we have launched the first stage of consultation. again, we can be more definite. the same applies to the proposal for a directive on workplace ergonomics and issues concerning the manual-handling directive. the analysis is under way. we can be specific about the timetables for the study and can make specific commitments on when and how we are going to launch the first stage of consultation. next there is the issue of women: on that there is total agreement. gender mainstreaming is a general principle in all actions in our strategy paper. as regards benchmarking, you are right that perhaps we could find a better way to enforce the procedure. the report specifically refers to the need to encourage member states to use benchmarking in this area, but maybe we can discuss this together to see how it can be made more concrete. perhaps we can discuss this with member states and ask them to set firm objectives. then we could have a report seeing what progress they are making. it cannot be an obligation – we cannot oblige member states to do it – but maybe we could present it in a more organised way to see how benchmarking can move forward. finally, i shall comment on simplification and codification. we are working on a total evaluation of health and safety legislation. this is one of the main commitments in the strategy. it is not an easy task but our final goal is to simplify the provisions, see whether they are consistent and then codify them. one commitment is to codify the health and safety directive.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities. – mr president, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, i welcome the communication on this strategy for health and safety at work. i would particularly like to congratulate mr hughes on his report. as he said, i have been very pleased with the way that our committees have worked together on this issue and, in particular, the cooperation with the rapporteur which has ensured that the points made by the committee on women's rights have been fully taken on board. this is important because, while men are more often the victims of serious accidents at work, women tend to suffer for longer periods of time from work-related illnesses. adult women receive less vocational training and education than their male colleagues. that is why it is so important that we have a gender breakdown of statistics on work-related ill health and accidents for full-time, part-time and temporary employment. the commissioner agreed that gender must be mainstreamed throughout this strategy so that issues such as the effect of the double workload of paid employment and personal responsibilities and issues such as harassment in the workplace are properly addressed. if risk assessment and workplace design fail to take gender into account, women will continue to be prevented from entering certain professions and sectors. an evaluation of current health and safety law is needed so that we can identify problem areas to make future legislation more effective. for example, domestic workers and home workers, many of whom are women, must be protected, as well as women in agriculture and spouses in family-run small businesses. i totally support the rapporteur in his comments on the lack of resources in the commission to deal with health and safety policy and, in particular, the need for a detailed and costed action plan and a very strict timetable for improving legislation in this very important area. i support the report.
mr president, although i welcome some of the points in mr hughes' report, especially the simplification of existing community legislation and better monitoring, i am very unhappy that my amendments on comprehensive impact assessments did not pass in committee. my group agreed that i should table the amendments again in plenary but, unfortunately, no other group was prepared to open up the process. legislation should only be brought forward when we demonstrate that there is a clear need for it, rather than best practice or the exchange of best practice. we must first make sure that existing legislation in the same field is being implemented across the european union. secondly, as i have already said regarding comprehensive impact assessments, we must have an impact assessment for each member state, taking into account the impact on industry, on business and on the workforce. unfortunately, quite often the impact assessments coming forward from the commission look more like explanatory statements to me rather than comprehensive impact assessments. above all, in health and safety we need to have up-to-date scientific and medical evidence to demonstrate the need for such legislation. take the example of the vibrations directive. i was given a lot of documents by the commission. the iso standards report, the only one that was really up to date, actually said that there was no quantitative link between whole body vibration and lower back pain, but still we brought legislation forward. i am pro-european but we bring forward more and more legislation without demonstrating the actual need for it. this brings the european union into disrepute. although we may need some of the legislation mr hughes has proposed in his report and which the commission has proposed, without a guarantee of a proper comprehensive and independent impact assessment, the eldr group will have to abstain on the vote tomorrow.
mr president, the commission document on health and safety at work is a good document. it talks of the importance of health and safety at work, of the need to strengthen the prevention culture and to secure a better application of existing law. i very much agree with all of that. it portrays the problem as follows: the preventive culture of eu directives has not yet been fully understood, nor has it been applied effectively on the ground. i agree. it admits that people tend to see the community legal framework as being excessively complex and unclear and proposes that it be simplified and rationalised. i agree with that too. i would have hoped that parliament might have seen fit to endorse these commission proposals, but the rapporteur has gone off in the opposite direction. he claims that, because commission staffing has been reduced to some 40% of its 1992 levels, this indicates much lower priority within the commission. this is nonsense. however, for some people all roads always lead to the standard socialist solution of more money, more people and more regulation. i note the rapporteur graciously referred to the joint amendment we tabled, which was the great highlight in committee – perhaps it could be the highlight of his report. colleagues may well hope this is the start of a great new partnership, but i suspect they may have to wait a little longer for it to blossom. we will hope together for progress. meanwhile, the rapporteur wants to extend the scope of the framework directive to propose new legislation on workplace bullying and a new directive on workplace ergonomics, strengthen the display screen equipment directive and amend the manual handling directive. all that appears on just the first page of his recommendations. we do not need more directives. i suggest his conclusions are wrong because his analysis is wrong. the uk conservative delegation will be voting against it and we will not be alone. i would add that ireland has just voted to allow the entry of applicant countries into the eu. if the applicant countries read the hughes report, they may not want to join.
mr president, of course we all want health and safety at work, employers, workers and shareholders. what good is it if we have health and safety but no work? there is the problem and there is the challenge. there is an honourable tradition in the long campaign and struggle to achieve acceptable standards of health and safety in the workplace. this started way back with the industrial revolution. it freed children from hard manual labour in the mines and the mills, and to this day it protects workers against avoidable accidents and illnesses. and it is not over yet. still there are unacceptable accidents on the farm and on the factory floor. only last month on a farm next door to mine in scotland, the young husband and father of a family died after being caught in a potato-harvesting machine. we must do all we can and continue to strive to eliminate all such tragedies. our work and business culture must be a safety culture, but life and work can never be devoid of risk. there is no way we could achieve that utopia and still have a working economy, where men and women leave home each day for their workplace and thereby support their families and our economy. be in no doubt that absurdly exaggerated restrictions and red tape will only kill off enterprise and the enterprises to which our constituents resort each day to make their living and provide the prosperity on which we all depend. the commission has it very nearly right. apply effectively the legislation we already have and encourage health and safety actions as good for business as well as for workers. mr hughes' report goes far too far. its litany of exaggerated good intentions and its demand for yet more legislation risk the future of europe's businesses, of our prosperity and our jobs.
the commission. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pérez álvarez, and the members of parliament for their report and their support. it is indeed an important proposal which aims to ensure the protection of all workers in the workplace, because as mr álvarez has very well explained and i need not repeat it, workers cannot be treated differently depending on the definition of their work. the initiative aims to ensure the same levels of protection for selfemployed and employed persons. it calls on the member states to take three categories of action. the first is to include the selfemployed in the field of health and safety legislation, where this is of course allowed by national legal systems. the second is that it calls on the member states to take the necessary measures to ensure that selfemployed people have access to information, training and technical support to prevent risks. in addition, there is a third element, that member states are called upon to provide access to appropriate health monitoring systems. we believe that most of your amendments concern situations where employees and selfemployed people work together and i agree that these situations should be made more clear in the recommendation. the commission therefore accepts amendments nos 1, 3, 5, 6, 8, 10 and 11 and will make every effort to ensure that they are accepted by the council. the commission does not agree with amendments nos 2, 4, 7, 9, 12, 13, 14 and 15 because they are either included in some other amendments or call for the development of certain binding legal mechanisms, which, however, prejudge the effectiveness of the recommendation during the first period of its four-year pilot implementation. the commission considers this proposal to be an important step towards making the legislation beneficial to all europeans, irrespective of their employment status, thus contributing to the ultimate goal of reducing occupational accidents and diseases.
mr president, i would like to thank mr pérez álvarez for an incisive and thoughtful report. the application of health and safety legislation to self-employed workers is an important subject, not least because of the ever-growing number of self-employed, subordinated, sub-contracted or atypical workers. the creation of false forms of independence and self-employment can put workers who are in an employment situation beyond the framework of protection. that is something we need to address. this is something that the commission recognises and, working together, as mr pérez álvarez has said, we have tried to do something about it over the years. the extension of working time protection to road transport personnel in the directive, agreed at the end of last year, will cover owner-drivers, but only because parallel legal bases covering occupational health and safety on the one hand, and operational safety on the other have been used. as mr pérez álvarez has pointed out this evening, the issue was also tackled in the framework of the directive on temporary and mobile work sites, but in a fairly limited way. we therefore needed a more comprehensive approach and this recommendation may prove to be a useful contribution. but other actions are possible, such as the more general extension of health and safety legislation to the self-employed suggested in mr pérez álvarez's amendment no 4. i know the commission has difficulty with that. the commissioner will say that the legal base in article 137 will not permit this. but, if the recommendation does not have a positive impact, then we will all collectively need to come back together to reconsider the legal bases that are available to us and maybe take the route suggested in mr pérez álvarez 's amendments nos 7 and 22. if not, imagine the sort of problems we face in relation to, for example, the proposed directive we are currently considering on protection of workers from risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. we have massive amounts of asbestos hidden in our workplaces, homes, schools and hospitals. many people with employment contracts will handle it and, if they work for a demolition, removal or transportation company, they will be covered. but a whole army of self-employed workers are also exposed to asbestos, in particular the electricians, plumbers and carpenters who come across it while doing maintenance work. they will be predominantly self-employed. it is also true that, even if we had a tenfold increase in the number of inspectors, they could not inspect this whole army of self-employed people at work. they need to be able to take responsibility for themselves. they need the information, the support and training to understand the risks they run if they take short cuts. the recommendation is a very useful contribution in that respect.
mr president, perhaps the most surprising thing about this is that in the committee vote it was only passed by 36 to 1. i would have thought that anything like this would automatically have got unanimity in committee. it is quite revealing also that it is only a recommendation. as the commissioner will know from the 'falls from heights' directive, it was pretty clear that we needed a very strong political message to cover the self-employed. it is not only the construction industry that suffers from accidents every day of the week. for instance, the interpreters in the booths around us, who are often self-employed and have to work under very stressful conditions, are the very people we would expect to receive community protection under community law. you know very well that the european institutions abstain from introducing any of those laws to cover many of their staff, so we will not go down that path. there is no doubt that by recommending community health and safety legislation for the self-employed we have taken a giant step forward. we should no longer rely on national statistics which tell us that accidents only happen to full-time employees. that is clearly ridiculous. you might – if you are a christian – call a it sin that so many people involved in industries, just because they are considered self-employed, do not enjoy the protection they deserve. mr pérez álvarez has spent a long time discussing health and safety in this parliament. i am very pleased that he has taken on this report, because i know the commitment we need from all sides of the house. it is vital for the self-employed to be included in any health and safety and employment legislation that emanates from the commission and this house. everyone in europe must enjoy the same level of protection.
mr president, some three years ago i led a march of meps down the champs elysées in paris and almost got arrested. my real concern is that we are enlarging the european union even though we still do not have a single market among the 15 member states. i have asked the commission and parliament to put pressure on the french to lift the illegal ban on british beef. yet we seem not to have got anywhere. we had the british minister in paris yesterday refusing to eat british beef. i admit that was terrible. she did not eat it in front of the cameras, but i understand that she ate it in private. i urge this house and you, mr president, to make every effort to try and put pressure on the french to lift the ban on british beef or at least to put pressure on the commission to take action against the french, so that we have a single market before we enlarge the european union.
mr president, if the treaty had been rejected by your countrymen, this week's council would have been marred by recrimination and disarray. due in no small part to your efforts, ireland's 'yes' vote has put us back on track for europe to be reunited in 2004. the decisions that remain will not be easy. as our esteemed former colleague the president-in-office has said, decisions involving money rarely are. but the heads of state and government must not allow themselves to flunk this historic opportunity by fighting over how to pay the bill. my group believes that enlargement can be financed under the financial arrangements agreed in berlin. some shifting between the different headings should be possible, within the overall limits. the final package must guarantee that new member states will not be net contributors before 2007. otherwise we will feed resentment and face the risk of more cliff-hanger referenda in the aspirant countries. inevitably, the major area of disagreement is the common agricultural policy. while the liberal group does not regards cap reform as a precondition for enlargement, it is clear that significant reform of our farm policies is essential to the success of enlargement and also for other reasons. i hear that president chirac expects the united kingdom to bring its budget rebate into play, while he refuses to countenance reform of his farm policies before 2006. we support the commission's proposals to phase in income support to farmers for the new member states, but we also expect all existing member states to commit themselves to far-reaching reform of the cap, as proposed in the mid-term review. the second major area of concern is the readiness of the applicant states to live within the disciplines of the single market and respect the european union's values. we share the concern expressed in the commission's progress report about corruption in a number of these countries and the need for progress in implementing eu legislation, particularly in the field of justice and home affairs. that is why it is right that there should be a reinforced monitoring system to ensure that countries fulfil their commitments. the president of the commission called for enthusiasm and intelligence. commissioner verheugen's approach has demonstrated the latter, but a touch more enthusiasm in the council for enlargement and for the new europe it heralds would not go amiss. (applause)
mr president, i welcome the fact that enlargement is proceeding relatively smoothly. however, when the whole of the eu institutional machinery is focused on the enlargement process, do not forget that there are other european countries with very legitimate cultural and historical links to europe. they feel aggrieved that their ambitions for eu membership in the long term are being ignored and decreed unrealistic, particularly by the commission. i have in mind particularly ukraine, which is locked in a political struggle between westernisers and those who wish to see it join a reinvented economic union with russia and the eastern republics. as soon as this round of enlargement is over, we must reconsider our policies to other countries in europe. i am thinking here of the balkan states in particular and neighbouring countries such as ukraine which need anchoring in peace, prosperity and western security. since the break-up of the former soviet union ten years ago, they have moved some way towards democracy, human rights and good government, although a great deal remains to be done. if turkey has been granted candidate status, surely a country like ukraine has just as much, if not more, of a claim to be a candidate for the european family of nations in an enlarged, wider and looser european union.
mr president, there is a saying in the united kingdom that you should not 'spoil the ship for a ha'porth of tar'. i think we would all do well to remember that in the coming weeks. the financial arrangements are going to be difficult to agree and i do not underestimate them, but we must keep a sense of perspective. the money for the candidate countries up to 2006 represents one thousandth of the gdp of the eu and is 10% of what germany has spent on its own unification. the costs are nothing compared to the economic benefits that will flow from enlargement. the costs are nothing compared to the costs of not enlarging and are nothing compared to the costs of trying to maintain the stability of the continent by other means. the original six member states would do well to remember why they formed the community in the first place and the economic benefits that flow from it. those of us that joined later should remember why we joined and the efforts that other countries made to integrate us successfully into the union. we should remember the economic benefits that have flowed to us from eu membership. we should all remember that the financial and human effort needed to construct today's union was the most efficient investment ever made on such a scale by countries of a whole continent. now is the time to bring that investment up to an entirely new level for the future. i am concerned that this debate seems to be taking it for granted that the ten countries are already in, when they are not. we in parliament have to give our assent and we will scrutinise the final treaties very closely. it is vital that the candidate countries maintain their efforts to come up to the required standards. we welcome the three-fold safeguards set out by the commission in the form of economic safeguards, internal market safeguards and justice and home affairs safeguards. but we expect parliament to be involved if these safeguard clauses are ever invoked. we also welcome the commission's proposal for a further progress report six months before accession. we must all be prepared, if that report is negative on any particular country, to take the appropriate action. the socialist group will also be monitoring the social component of enlargement, because we must make sure that enlargement makes things better for people and not worse. if i could turn to kaliningrad, mr haarder mentioned negotiations with russia. could i gently remind mr haarder that russia is not a member state of the european union, nor is it a candidate country. i should also remind you that many of the problems in kaliningrad are of russia's own making, not least the refusal to allow many countries to set up consulates there. they cannot have a veto on the future of the eu. what we must respect absolutely is lithuania's sovereignty in this matter. nor must we try to find solutions with negative historical connotations, such as train corridors. we must also ensure that whatever solution is reached is practical and that we are prepared to give financial and other support to enable lithuania and poland to enforce it. the irish referendum taught us one important lesson. the 'no' vote actually stayed the same, the difference was in the 'yes' vote, and this was the result of the positive engagement by politicians with their people. in preparation for enlargement, we all have a responsibility to engage with our electorates to ensure that they welcome enlargement and recognise the benefits rather than worry about the costs.
mr president, on a point of order, you may be aware that a number of members were unable to take part in votes yesterday because they were delayed for seven hours at gatwick airport. you yourself will have experienced some of the extreme difficulties faced by many members in travelling to strasbourg. in view of the approaching enlargement, are you satisfied that parliament here in strasbourg is adequately equipped for the needs of enlargement, given that members and staff find it very difficult to get here from one of europe's largest airports? are you confident that those coming from parts of europe where the transport links are not so good will be able to travel to strasbourg? is it not time you joined the growing number of people who think that strasbourg is an inefficient and inappropriate place to host a parliament of this size? i urge you to look into this as a matter of urgency. (mixed reactions)
mr president, a number of members will be wondering whether, as rapporteur, i will be seeking to refer this matter back to committee. the committee was concerned that the commission's strategy document was rather vague in terms of the action to be taken in the health and safety field. i can now tell the house that, in a meeting with commissioner diamantopoulou yesterday and during the debate last night, i received assurances that the commissioner will come to the committee on employment and social affairs to detail the action to be taken and that a report will be presented on an annual basis to facilitate the monitoring of progress by the committee. on that basis, i recommended to the committee coordinators, at a meeting this morning, that we should proceed with the vote and not refer back. the coordinators agreed, and i therefore recommend that we proceed with the vote.
mr president, in order to accommodate the strongly expressed wishes of part of the ppe-de group, my group withdraws its request for a separate vote on amendment 3, which should enable you then to take all the amendments en bloc.
in writing. - this report was put to the vote in accordance with rule 110a, which does not allow amendments to be made to the report. the british delegation of the epp-ed group has already tried to change reports which it did not support. the new paragraph in the rules of procedure, however, leaves no choice but to vote against certain reports. the uk conservatives support the commission's communication on health and safety at work, which talks about the importance of health and safety at the workplace and the need to strengthen the culture of risk prevention and better enforce existing law. the commission acknowledges that the community legal framework appears to be excessively complex and difficult to read for the parties concerned, and proposes to simplify it. the british conservatives support this view. however, the rapporteur is doing exactly the opposite, proposing the extension of the scope of the framework directive, new legislation on harassment at the workplace, a new ergonomics directive on the workplace, the strengthening of the directive on work on display equipment, and the amendment of the directive on manual load handling. a fundamental flaw in his analysis leads us to conclude that his conclusions are wrong. for this reason, the british conservatives are opposed to this report.
mr president, i asked at the very last minute to give an explanation of vote on both the müller and grossetête reports. we supported amendment 78, since it is pro-generic in principle. it would ideally refer to line extension rather than abridged application, but the principle allows for the sale of generics in more than one country without repeating application procedures. in the grossetête report, on amendment 63, we voted to be consistent with our approach in committee. on the second part of amendment 113, it was put to us that the word advertising was open to misinterpretation.
in writing. - on behalf of the british labour delegation, i would like to explain that with regard to the proposals in the grossetête report on veterinary medicines, we believe that the commission should accept the current practice in the united kingdom and ireland. it allows authorised staff to administer a range of veterinary medicinal products without a prescription in cases where veterinary intervention is not considered necessary for reasons of safety and efficacy. this system has been working effectively for years and has not raised any concerns about the safety of consumers or users of these medicines. we also believe that all such medicines should be authorised for renewal every five years, rather than for an indefinite period. we do not support the commission's view that all new active substances for veterinary medicinal products should be subject to the centralised authorisation procedure. this practice would have a significant impact on the development of new products for localized species/situations and lead to an intensification of the problems of availability of these medicines. it is therefore important to maintain flexibility.
in writing. - given the way in which the charter seems to have been able to establish its own terms of reference and its own limits (or more precisely its lack of limits), it is necessary to answer some fundamental questions before allowing the charter to develop further. while it is right and appropriate for a legislative body such as the european union to be bound by minimum requirements as to what is permissible in a civilised society, nothing will be gained if the implementation of the charter continues to proceed in the manner set out in this report. what will happen if the european court of justice and the european court of human rights are forced to develop contradictory case-law? which one of you will take precedence ? who besides lawyers will benefit from this potential back and forth from one court to another? how can a document with the force of law claim that all rights are equal, whether it is the right to life or the right to strike? are not many of these questions political rather than fundamental rights issues? wasn't commissioner byrne right when he said that it was better to let elected politicians, rather than judges, deal with education, health and housing issues and their financial implications?
mr president, on a point of order, i would like to insist that the chairman of my committee, mr hernández mollar, speaks ahead of me. mr brok is right: this is a joint motion from the two committees. as the liberal group spokeswoman on the committee on citizens' freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs, i wish the chairman of my committee to speak ahead of me. if the rules do not provide for that, they should. let us be flexible enough to accept what should happen.
mr president, there can be no compromise with those who hate freedom and democracy. there can be no tolerance of the intolerant. that said, we have more work to do to win hearts and minds in projecting a vision of europe and the united states as beacons of human rights, non-discrimination, respect for difference and understanding of criticism. it is a paradox that young people in africa and asia gaze longingly at the american way of life while damning the united states as the 'great satan'. we must show, for instance, that we understand the difference between religion that is moderate, reasonable and compassionate and the dogmatic fundamentalism that exists in all religions, not just islam. but we must make a special effort to keep up a dialogue with muslims and include them in european societies. we must demonstrably treat others as we wish our own citizens to be treated. would it not have been a magnificent gesture and morally right to have offered to airlift out all the local victims of the bali bomb, to show that we were not just looking after rich white westerners? maybe it is still not too late to do something. the international fight against terrorism inevitably overlaps with the question of combating weapons of mass destruction. we are all conscious of the present developments regarding iraq. the danger is that any pre-emptive action in the form of a war of conquest geared to regime change will leave the united states looking like an imperialist power in the middle east. the backlash could create a whole new cause célèbre for terrorism. we must ensure openness and respect for liberty and democracy in the adoption of anti-terrorism measures, but in the 30-page terrorism roadmap you will only find parliament mentioned four times. the council is negotiating agreements on mutual legal assistance, extradition and exchange of personal data with the united states, involving europol-fbi cooperation. in principle, that is fine, but there is no democratic or judicial scrutiny. although the subject matter is justice and home affairs, where there is normally some parliamentary input, external agreements are negotiated without parliamentary scrutiny. this is unsatisfactory and weakens our claim to be defending liberty and democracy. (applause)
madam president, we may be horrified, but we should not be surprised by the nature of recent acts of terrorism. terrorists have no power if they do not inspire fear. the more outrageous, shocking, unexpected and attention-grabbing an attack is, the greater its success. yet there are still those who seek to apologise for the terrorists and try to establish some sort of moral equivalency between terrorist acts and, for example, the actions of the security forces of the democracies engaged in counter-terrorism. terrorism needs to be addressed by a range of policy instruments, only one of which is military force. the area where our democracies have traditionally been weakest has been in attacking the legitimacy of the terrorists and fighting them politically in a systematic and well-targeted manner. this aspect is not well understood. we never fought the ira politically, because we were never clear on our own political objectives. now we have ira terrorists in government. too often by our actions we enhance the credibility and status of terrorists and thereby encourage terrorism. the message of recent years is that terrorism works. that is a fatal message. the resolution contains some elements that are indisputable, but it is very skewed and contains the usual ingredients of anti-americanism, excessive concern with the rights of terrorists and extremists and those that support them, and further support for the federalist ambitions of the european union. we have heard a lot of this from other speakers as well. i do not accept the implied condemnation of pre-emptive action in today's dangerous world where weapons of mass destruction may be made available to irrational and fanatical terrorists. deterrence does not necessarily work. we cannot wait for an attack to take place before we act. this would be a dereliction of duty by any government. the reference in paragraph 4 of the resolution to the right of self-defence is incorrect and a distortion of the united nations charter. article 51 of the un charter states that 'nothing in the present charter shall impair the inherent right of individual or collective self-defence if an armed attack occurs against a member of the united nations.' there are 12 pages in this resolution and it adds very little, either to our knowledge or our capabilities. where is the call for political solidarity and enhanced cooperation among all the democracies? where is the demand for improved military capabilities and greater political will by european states and where are the measures to be taken against those that support terrorism? this is what is required.
mr president, i hear what the minister says; i accept that the guidelines are better than nothing and i congratulate the danish presidency on at least achieving them. but the legal advice given to the eu institutions was that a contracting party to the rome statute that concludes bilateral agreements outside the tight scope of article 98 acts against the object and purpose of the statute. is it not true that the guidelines are really too weak to shut the door to impunity arrangements? i heard the minister refer to a common position. i would like to know whether the guidelines legally constitute a common position. whether they do or not, will the council at least seek to strengthen these rather vague guidelines of 30 september which allow loopholes contravening the statute? that would give us a strengthened common position delivering additional safeguards. these should include: oversight of national pledges by the icc; guarantees that the us will investigate and prosecute its own nationals accused of committing icc crimes; a requirement on the us to update federal laws to ensure that its courts exercise jurisdiction over all icc crimes – which is not the case at the moment; agreement to confine the scope to military personnel or closely allied civilian personnel – and not, for instance, mercenaries; inclusion of a sunset clause and the submission of the agreements for scrutiny by the relevant national parliaments.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road. it's hard for a passenger to accept a denied boarding. the passenger has paid for his ticket, booked his ticket, arrived at the airport in time for check-in, and finds that there are no seats on the plane because the airline has an overbooking or simply because some other mishap has occurred. this is incomprehensible to the citizens and causes great disruption and a feeling of frustration and, ultimately, resentment. in the community, some 250,000 people a year are denied boarding after having paid for their ticket and completed all the formalities. while recognising the flexibility required by airlines for capacity management, in 1991 the european community adopted - on the eve of the adoption of the final legislation on liberalisation - a regulation on denied boarding for overbooking which guarantees economic compensation and, in addition, assistance to the passengers concerned, but which has enormous limitations. the commission has therefore proposed a new regulation to drastically reduce the number of people denied boarding and to improve the protection of those affected. when airlines intend to refuse boarding, they will first be obliged to ask for volunteers to give up their seats in exchange for certain benefits; only if there are not enough volunteers can passengers be denied boarding against their will. however, in order to be effective, the regulation must provide a strong incentive to find volunteers. we have therefore proposed a sharp increase in compensation, above current levels which have been partly absorbed by inflation and which today do not deter companies from resorting to denial of boarding. naturally, when the airlines find volunteers, they will not pay this compensation. as for the exact quantities, the commission's position is flexible, provided they are sufficiently large to induce the companies to find volunteers. our proposal will also remove the limitations of this regulation. first, it will extend the application of the rights of passengers who are denied boarding to all passengers whose flights are cancelled. after all, a cancellation is equivalent to a general denial of boarding for an entire ticket. however, only cancellations for which the company is responsible would be covered because, obviously, in certain circumstances it would be unfair for the company to bear all the responsibility. secondly, the proposed regulation will establish fundamental rights for passengers who are delayed, allowing them to arrange their travel in another way, instead of waiting indefinitely at airports. however, in this case they will not be entitled to compensation. finally, our proposal will grant all these rights to passengers flying on scheduled flights as well as those on non-scheduled flights. therefore, passengers on combined journeys will benefit in the same way as those who purchase only the air ticket. it would not be fair to treat passengers differently when they are faced with similar difficulties. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is the essence of our proposal, which greatly extends the protection of passengers when problems arise on flights and which simply aims to improve the quality of service and thus increase the guarantees for citizens.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment,public health and consumer policy. – mr president, i would like to begin by congratulating mr lisi on his report. while he was drafting it, he attended the discussions on my opinion in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy and incorporated many of the points raised. our differences are really minor, but i will return to them. as mr lisi said, members pontificate here on many subjects about which they have an imperfect knowledge, but we all regard ourselves as experts on the problems of passenger travel. they dominate our working lives. so there was a warm welcome for commissioner de palacio's proposals to move ahead from the 1991 regulations, not just on denied boarding but on delayed and cancelled flights as well. there is no dispute that what we call the hierarchy of remedies must apply, starting with compensation levels proportionate to the distance travelled. i think most of the airlines have responded well to this debate, with the air service passenger commitment as a gesture of intent. i would say to those maverick airlines that ignore all that – and we know where they fly to, if not always where they live – that they would be wise to heed the public mood. no frills should not mean no concern. in our opinion, we are offered an amendment to article 7 which called for levels of compensation to be based on specific impact assessments, so that it could not be argued that they were frivolously levied. i must say that the levels of compensation in mr lisi's report are well beyond what we wanted under article 7. we wanted mandatory compensation of between eur 300 and eur 1 500, subject to distance and review. that has fallen to between eur 200 and 600, but i accept that in itself is progress for the consumer. i am still concerned that this does not necessarily apply under amendment no 31, which refers back to article 9 and not article 8. perhaps the commissioner can assure me that those amendments will actually apply. otherwise, mr lisi and his committee have advanced the consumer cause and have allowed us to move forward to a system of airline ranking. if only this applied to all airlines, all flights and all problems. every day further horrors come to light. on a british airline, a woman had to endure an 11-hour flight next to a 23-stone woman who sat on her, not next to her, throughout the flight. she was left with serious injuries and initially offered gbp 15 compensation. you might say that the airline began with one handicapped passenger and ended with two. our journeys should be reducing handicaps, not increasing them. i welcome this report as a step in that direction.
mr president, i would like to begin by thanking my colleague, mr lisi, for all his hard work on this report. i would like to support the comments he has made. as a general observation, and taking issue with the commission position, i would like to continue by saying that this report came as an unwelcome surprise, not least because, last year, a report on air passenger rights was taken through committee by mr collins, with parliament overwhelmingly supporting a voluntary approach. in addition, there has been no industry consultation on this issue and no business impact assessment of value. there is no data on the projected costs to carriers; no assessment of the impact on competitiveness – between both eu and other carriers; and no information on the direct and consequential impact of this legislation. the voluntary air passenger service commitment agreement was signed in february in strasbourg. virtually all the european airlines were party to it. it included references to a number of points contained in this proposal on delays, cancellations and diversions, special needs passengers, reducing the number of involuntary denied boardings and so on. so why did mr collins and our committee go to the trouble of taking his report through parliament when the commission clearly had a legislative proposal in its back pocket? the voluntary agreement has not failed; it has not even had a chance to work. here we are again with the commission knocking another nail into the coffin. the proposal is flawed in several key areas: it fails to recognise fundamental differences between scheduled and charter operations; it ignores, for example, the package travel directive covering the rights of charter passengers. in particular, it concerns proposals on cancellations and long delays, hence the inclusion of the tour operators, as supported by our committee. the proposal also ignored the proportion of events due to failures within the monopoly providers such as atc and airports, and the inability of airlines to obtain compensation from them. given that the ticket price has gone down in the last ten years, the increase in compensation levels proposed for denied boarding by the commission is an incredible 400%. left at those levels, this regulation would cost the scheduled carriers somewhere in the region of eur 1.35 billion. the many regional and low-cost airlines would be more critically affected, as their margins are much smaller. in addition, none of these rules will apply to third country airlines. we in europe will again suffer the consequences of an unlevel playing field – another example of the commission taking a sledgehammer to crack a nut. finally, under the leadership of our rapporteur, we have achieved a more sensible and realistic conclusion. i live in hope that the commission will listen to parliament and act accordingly. the public quite rightly expects and deserves good customer service but this proposal is a step too far.
deputising for the rapporteur. – mr president, mr khanbhai sends his sincere apologies for not being here to present his report. unforeseen circumstances have forced him to return to the uk this evening. i would like to stress that this is his report, and i thank him for his work and his willingness to cooperate with other parties. it is perhaps appropriate that mr khanbhai drew up this report, because he was born in tanzania, where his family have lived for 170 years. he and i have travelled extensively in rural africa and we share many views on the eradication of poverty in developing countries. it is therefore a pleasure to stand in for him today. it is unacceptable that even today, more than one billion people are living on less than a dollar a day in rural areas of developing countries. they have no access to water, sanitation, electricity, health services or education. the poor are hungry, have no jobs, and fear disease. more than 40 years of international aid have not eliminated poverty. many of these poor countries have huge debts, and their people are worse off than they were 25 years ago when lomé assistance started. the eu is the largest donor in the world. why have we not identified the country-specific problems, so that we can focus our aid on attacking the causes of poverty? i have been travelling in the acp countries for over 20 years. the major cause of poverty is the lack of investment in rural areas. we need to invest in helping the rural population to have a stake in their local economies. these people need infrastructure, technical skills for farming and animal husbandry, and vocational training to establish small businesses in the agro-processing, engineering, it and service sectors. they need the kind of support provided by micro-finance schemes such as the gramine bank in bangladesh, and i strongly support mr khanbhai in this matter. a 'bottom-up' approach is the only way to regenerate rural areas. asian countries like china, india and bangladesh were food-deficient and net importers 20 years ago. subsidies to farmers, selecting appropriate seed, irrigation, micro-finance for small farmers, establishing food cooperatives and other rural investments transformed the agricultures of these countries. today, they grow enough food for their huge populations and have surplus for exports. there must be a lesson here. the eu and the us offer substantial subsidies to their farmers. without such subsidies, there would be no economic prosperity in countries like spain, portugal, ireland, italy and france, which have all benefited from european subsidies. without investment in europe's rural infrastructure, the eu would not function as it does today. sadly, international aid for rural areas in sub-saharan countries has dropped from eur 14 billion in 1988 to eur 8 billion in 1998. this has resulted in a sharp decline in food production. it has been aggravated by natural disasters, both drought and floods. a decade of famine and malnutrition has precipitated disease, fear, social tension and civil war in many poor countries. the eu needs to encourage land reform, the efficient and fair utilisation of water resources and the transfer of technology for the rural populations of poor countries. we need to teach them to grow their own food, create their own employment and sustain their own economies. the poor do not wish to beg for life; they value their self-respect and dignity in the same way as we do. they do not want our fish. they need to learn how to fish and feed themselves. i agree with mr khanbhai that this is the spirit within which the eu should reassess its policy on aid. agriculture, agrarian reform and rural economic development should be top priority areas for eu assistance. this will help production, employment and the sustainable management of natural resources in developing countries, enabling the poor to be self-reliant and break their dependence on our aid. i hope that the house will accept this report. mr khanbhai has agreed to over 75 per cent of the amendments that have been tabled.
commission. – mr president, the commission would first like to thank mr khanbhai – and mr corrie as his stand-in – for their work in bringing an issue as important as sustainable rural development to this debate. poverty and food insecurity in developing countries will not be eradicated without substantial investment in rural areas. the commission fully shares the main thrust of the report on the importance of rural and agricultural development for poor people in developing countries. beyond rural development, the report also addresses issues related to eu trade and agricultural policy. it underlines the importance of improving trade opportunities for the rural poor, which we fully share. in this respect, the world summit on sustainable development reconfirmed the commitments made in the wto ministerial declaration in doha – the so-called doha development agenda. these include taking into account the specificity of developing countries in the trade negotiations and putting in place flanking measures such as capacity building and trade-related technical assistance. the commission has recently sent to the council and parliament a communication that will provide the policy framework for this type of assistance. the commission wants to highlight the positive trade agenda promoted by the european union and adopted in johannesburg to complement the wto process. it is also worth recalling that the union is committed to providing to least-developed countries, through the 'everything but arms' initiative, full duty-free and quota-free access to the european market. we hope to see similar initiatives adopted by other developed countries. as regards agriculture, the commission supports the emphasis on the multifunctionality of agriculture, a concept of particular relevance for developing countries. however, i would like to draw your attention to the reference made in the report to the dumping of european agricultural production. the community provides an export refund, which reduces the difference between the higher community price and the world price. technically that cannot be called dumping. ceilings on export subsidies, in quantity and value, are regulated by the wto, and these ceilings have been reduced between 1995 and 2000. the community has constantly reduced its use of export refunds, beyond wto obligations. these positive efforts should be recognised. but rural development is the main focus of the report. for many donors, including the european commission, rural poverty is a multidimensional issue. to address it, it is necessary to combine interventions at different levels. at national level, we need to improve incomes, reduce inequality in access to productive assets and services, combat the degradation of natural resources and reduce vulnerability to risk. at an international level, we need to improve the coherence between developed countries' domestic policies – in particular trade and agriculture – and their development objectives. in developing countries, addressing such a complex set of issues requires coherent and balanced national strategies tailored to local needs, resources and institutional settings. although there is no 'one size fits all' solution, the commission, in its recent communication, 'fighting rural poverty', has identified some key principles to be applied in all rural development interventions. they include the importance of promoting gender equality, maximising the impact on poverty, supporting national strategies and the participation of stakeholders, as well as mainstreaming environmental protection. support for pro-poor land reforms, capacity-building, improved access to financial services, agricultural research, infrastructure and services are all areas whose importance is underlined in the commission strategy and in which the community's development programme is heavily involved. similarly, the commission also broadly shares other, more specific recommendations, such as the importance of supporting the development of arts and crafts, rural training centres and domestication of wildlife. however, the level of priority of such interventions depends on local circumstances and on their relevance for poverty reduction. support for such activities will therefore have to be addressed on a case—by-case basis and in line with the priorities defined in national strategies. rural development is also primarily about decentralisation and local governance. resources will only reach the rural poor if they can be managed effectively and planned in a participatory way, with the active involvement of local communities. the most disadvantaged sections of societies – particularly women – must be effectively represented and participate in these processes. reinforcing and democratising local institutions is a key challenge for governments and donors alike. the report rightly emphasises the importance of good governance for the sustainability of all development efforts. once again i thank the rapporteur, mr khanbhai, and mr corrie.
mr president, agriculture, support for rural development and the protection of rural communities are at the heart of mr khanbhai's report and he addresses many of the fundamental inequities which feature so prominently in the lives of the rural poor. clearly, as other speakers have said, the european union and its member states have a very important role to play. i think we need to show much more understanding of the real reasons for the so-called urban drift from rural areas and of the effect of the systems and structures which conspire to destroy the livelihoods of millions who live by the land. the european union is, of course, part of the solution. as the biggest trading block, we have an important role to play. i have to say that it is sheer hypocrisy to continue to protect our own agricultural competitive position with higher resources, while at the same time forcing developing countries to liberalise. rapid opening of their markets threatens food security and sustainable livelihoods in developing countries. the parallel negotiations which will be going on at the wto and between the acp and the european union must be used as an opportunity to show that the european union clearly understands that trade and market access and tariff levels are directly and inextricably linked to our understanding of how we meet those critical millennium development goals. the paradox is that, in a time of global plenty, farmers in developing countries are abandoning the land and agriculture. they simply cannot compete with heavily subsidised food flooding into their markets and dumped on their markets. the report describes the effect of the dumping of milk on jamaica and the dumping of beef on west africa. in uganda, for instance, the coffee growers are suffering enormously. one hundred and fifty ugandan shillings are what a grower gets for a kilo of the coffee he grows. if you go down to the sheraton in kampala, you pay one thousand ugandan shillings for one single cup of coffee. with growers receiving such a poor reward for their efforts, it is not surprising that oxfam describes this as a situation that affects health and education and the whole rural community. so small farmers from haiti to mexico and mozambique to tanzania are simply selling up and selling out. they are unable to compete with the rich agricultural barons. that is the reality we are facing, one which mr khanbhai deals with very well indeed. he also gives us a very timely reminder in his report that 75% of the 1.2 billion living on less than one dollar a day are in rural areas. that certainly is a call to action.
mr president, there is not a lot more which needs to be said, because most of it has been said by mr blokland. i would like to start by agreeing with the last speaker. this is a good report and the rapporteurs have worked really hard on it. a first-reading agreement, though it is not absolutely certain yet, is what we would like to see. we think that by and large the amendments are sensible additions to the text. we are a little concerned about the proposals on member states including chemicals in the pic procedure and think that everyone should be properly consulted if that is going to happen. we need this measure without delay. it will help to improve our public health and environmental protection, both inside and outside the european union. we are anxious to go through with it and we will be supporting the vast majority of the amendments and following the rapporteur tomorrow. we would like to see a solution as quickly as possible. we need more international agreements like this and we need speed. many pieces of chemical legislation have taken too long to be properly implemented in the past.
commission. – mr president, i would like to begin by expressing the thanks of the commission to the rapporteur, mr garcía—margallo y marfil, for his work and for his extremely forthcoming attitude. i would also like to express our appreciation of the fact that mr garcía—margallo y marfil has decided not to retable the amendments which played a role in the first reading of this proposal. i have listened with great interest to what mr garcía—margallo y marfil has just said. many of the matters that he discussed are important but, at the present time, the fiscalis programme is more restricted than he would have liked. however, it is important that the programme should be adopted before the expiry of the current fiscalis programme, which ends on the 31 december of this year. i am therefore very pleased that this proposal has secured the support of the european parliament at second reading. i would therefore like to welcome, in particular, the positive contribution of the rapporteur for the committee on economic and monetary affairs, mr garcía—margallo y marfil. as you may be aware from the commission's communication to parliament on the council's common position, the commission has expressed its satisfaction that the council endorsed the general approach adopted in its original proposal. the commission has noted that the council has supported the continuation of the actions currently carried out under the existing fiscalis programme. in particular, the commission has welcomed the council's support for extending these actions to the area of direct taxation. nevertheless, the communication regretted the reduction in budget from the commission's original proposal of eur 56 million to eur 44 million. i am satisfied that an agreement between the european parliament, the council and the commission has been possible, so that the new programme may be adopted shortly. for that support, i would like to thank members of parliament and, in particular, as i said, mr garcía—margallo y marfil.
mr president, i also welcome the progress made in this report on the fiscalis programme for the next five years. i would particularly like to welcome and draw attention to the statement in the common position. as the rapporteur has already mentioned, it points out that this is not a political programme, but one designed to enhance administrative cooperation between member states' tax officials. it is important that we are clear about this objective. we are talking here about improving administration, and not in any way about tax harmonisation. when it was first proposed that the extension of the programme was going to be aimed at direct taxation, there was a lot of concern, particularly in the uk, that this might lead to measures to introduce harmonisation of direct taxes. we therefore welcome the fact that the common position clearly states this will not happen. if i may speak on behalf of the uk once again, we particularly welcome this because we have been among the most active users of the fiscalis programme over the last few years. we think it is very valuable, so i would certainly be concerned if anything happened to detract from the programme and make it more difficult for certain member states to take part in it. the programme has much to offer. it has introduced exchanges of officials; it has introduced seminars on tax issues of common interest; it has provided multilateral control exercises, it has developed professional training, such as audit skills; it has improved language training and it has maintained and developed communication and information exchange systems. that is all very good stuff and to be welcomed, continued and improved upon. what we are always trying to do in these sort of situations is improve the way that the systems work and get things to work better. certainly, that has been one of the achievements of the fiscalis programme. therefore, it is to be regretted, as the commissioner said, that we are seeing a cut in the budget. all we can hope is that the budget, as it now stands, will be adequate to take the programme forward. so, on the whole, i welcome the common position and the fact that it looks as if we are going to be able to achieve an agreement and get the programme extended. i also welcome the fact that we are very clear now that this is not about tax harmonisation in any way, but about administrative systems.
mr president, i will begin with the controversial issue in this directive. it should clearly cover financial journalists, and article 1 of the directive does just that. if journalists profit from the dissemination of information, they will fall within the scope of the directive and they can and will be prosecuted. the controversial question is different. should journalists be subject to new regulations that may be established by the commission and financial regulators, as currently proposed under article 6(10)? currently, member states must ensure there is appropriate regulation so that persons who disseminate research or other information, i.e. news organisations, take reasonable care that such information is fairly presented. commissioner bolkestein would have us believe that it only concerns journalists if they recommend shares. that is not what the directive says. it actually gives the commission and financial regulators a role in determining whether information is fairly presented. you do not need much imagination to see how this provision could undermine press freedom. it is extraordinary to suggest that the financial regulators, the most criticised public institutions in most member states – they always get the blame when banks fail – should help determine whether information has been fairly presented. this is why the eldr group has retabled an amendment we tabled in committee seeking to exclude bona fide journalists from this regulatory provision, not from the whole scope of the directive, and to do so without opening up any loophole that would allow financial analysts to parade themselves as journalists. do we really want today to set such an extraordinary precedent? do we really want to introduce the first ever european regulation of the press? do we want to ignore the objections of news organisations like handelsblatt, reuters, agence france press and the financial times, all of which live by their high reputations? do we really want to take this terrible first step of regulating the press without a proper discussion of the potential consequences? i urge you to back the eldr group amendment and reject this ill-thought-through attempt to introduce media regulation by the back door.
mr president, it is vital to have tough rules to prevent insider dealing and to punish those who abuse the market, including journalists and market practitioners. it is vital to protect consumer investors from the misconduct of market insiders. i would like to put on record my thanks to the council, the commission and the rapporteur for taking on board a number of issues in relation to accepted market practices, commodity derivatives and chinese walls at first reading. but this draft directive leaves a number of very significant problems. it is of very serious concern, as we have heard, to a whole range of journalists and media organisations across the european union – media organisations that live or die by their reputation for integrity and a high standard of public conduct. i agree that journalists should be subject to market abuse rules. i agree that journalists should be subject to rules that prevent conflicts of interest. i agree that we should have tough enforcement mechanisms to enforce those rules. however, i do not agree with the rapporteur that the committee of european securities regulators is the appropriate body to do this. in the case of journalists, the rules should be enforced by specialist media regulators, who know how the media works and understand the issues that relate to journalists. cesr does not have the expertise to regulate journalists. it has already demonstrated that it does not understand how the media works. the proposals in its consultation paper would have been impractical and unworkable. special constitutional issues apply to journalists because of the demands and importance of that vital constitutional issue, freedom of speech. it is vital that we respect those constitutional issues. it is at least arguable that, in some countries, giving cesr this role would be unconstitutional and contrary to the principle of freedom of speech.the free flow of information to the markets is absolutely vital in preventing market abuse and protecting consumer investors. if we disrupt that free flow of information to the market, we will be playing into the hands of market abusers. that would be the consequence of allowing cesr to regulate journalists when it does not understand the media issues. throughout the first reading, meps believed that article 6(5) was not targeted at journalists. despite this understanding, cesr has indicated it will regulate journalists. this is a test case. this is the first time we have used the lamfalussy process. we need to use our codecision power to send a clear message to cesr that we will stand up for the prerogatives and powers of the only elected eu institution and support amendment 7.
the commission is aware of the difficulties facing the community in the field of the internal market. i would like to highlight the excellent work done by the rapporteur, mr beysen, and say that i can see that the commission and parliament generally share the same view of the transeuropean networks as an essential element in facilitating the completion of the internal market in gas and electricity. the commission accepts the vast majority of the proposed amendments, with some adaptation of their wording in certain cases. these amendments supplement or clarify the commission's text. i shall give you an exact list of all these, and also of those which we cannot accept because they contain guidelines which are outside the context of the objectives proposed by the commission. i shall, however, concentrate on an explanation of amendments nos 8, 10 and 11, which refer to annex iii and, in particular, to the use of the comitology process. the commission, in the interests of transparency and clarity, proposes that detailed descriptions of the projects be included in this annex iii of the guidelines. in our view, with this level of detail, it should be considered a technical annex and its frequent and necessary updating should be decided in accordance with the comitology procedure. i would remind you that the use of the comitology procedure goes beyond the transeuropean networks and is being analysed in the interinstitutional agreement between the three institutions, and that any problems which parliament may raise must be solved in this area. i would also point out, mr president, that the commission will in any event submit an annual report on the development of the transeuropean networks and the progress of the projects and, if possible, their amendments in annex iii. i am grateful once again for parliament's support for this proposal, for the work of mr beysen, for all the speakers, and i hope that we will also get a quick solution from the council.
- the agenda calls for a vote. draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2003 - draft amendments and proposed modifications to the appropriations for section iii of the draft general budget for 2003 concerning the commission - draft amendments to sections i, ii, iv, v, vi, vii and viii of the draft general budget for the financial year 2003 concerning the european parliament, the council, the court of justice, the court of auditors, the economic and social committee, the committee of the regions, the ombudsman and the european data protection supervisor
- thanks for the heads-up. (parliament adopted the resolution)
in writing. - the european parliament adopted the budget of the european union rejecting an edd amendment calling for reimbursement of the expenses of members of the european parliament. since i have been here, amendments to this effect have been tabled for every budget and have been rejected every time. as the european union celebrates enlargement, it is crucial that the european parliament demonstrates its commitment to financial integrity and transparent accounting. once again, he failed.
in writing. - i'm the president of the cn group, which owns several daily newspapers. so, to avoid any risk of conflict of interest, i shall not be taking part in the vote on this report.
in writing. - like many of my british conservative colleagues, i abstained today in the final vote on the resolution on the fight against terrorism. several paragraphs adopted are directly aimed at undermining the right to self-defence enshrined in article 51 of the un charter, as well as the right to act pre-emptively, under the same inherent legal authority, when a criminal state or terrorist organisation clearly and imminently threatens the security of a country or region. in addition, several political concepts were mentioned, such as the cfsp or esdp, as well as the echelon project. we have clear policies in this respect, which are well known and differ from those of the majority of this parliament. it is clear that as a party we condemn all terrorist activity anywhere in the world and our country has suffered for a long time from the brutality of the ira and other paramilitary groups. so our abstention also reflects the rather weak tone of this resolution. parts of this resolution seem to be more focused on protecting the civil rights of terrorists than on condemning their criminal behavior against innocent civilians.
mr president, this is a question about the eighth conference of the parties to the kyoto protocol dealing with the reduction of co2 emissions. is an urgent matter because the new delhi conference, to which the question refers, is now beginning. the european parliament, and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy in particular, are very concerned that we should keep the kyoto momentum going. in the european union all is really not well, because some of the member states that have ratified kyoto are in the process of increasing their emissions of co2, notably spain. we have adopted a number of directives tending to decrease co2 emissions, and the commission has put forward a very useful programme showing what it has done and what it intends to do. we are particularly interested in the proposals on monitoring mechanisms, which are likely to come forward soon. i want to ask three things. firstly, how important is the new delhi conference? the commissioner would say that it is very important. if so, then my next question is why is she here and is she planning to go? i am sure that if she is not planning to go, it is not a symptom of the downgrading of the status of the conference. we simply want to know what is likely to happen at new delhi. we have heard conflicting rumours. secondly, it would be interesting to hear how the commission thinks other countries could be encouraged to participate in the kyoto process. for example, i recently met with the australian ambassador to the european union. australia is not a party to kyoto and is clearly not planning to become one. australia might not have major co2 emissions, but it could lead the way in south east asia – a very important area where increasing industrialisation is increasing those emissions. thirdly, we should sort out what the role of meps is when they attend such conferences. in the past, my colleagues have had increasingly uncomfortable experiences attending these conferences, for example the johannesburg conference on sustainable development. the commission is always extremely helpful and briefs meps as much as possible, but our delegations are not part of the meetings held by the eu delegation as such. we cannot understand why we cannot be observers at that process. it is absurd for the representatives of the people of europe to travel halfway round the world only to be spectators at a conference where the people negotiating on their behalf are not directly elected on a european mandate. we would like to see this changed so that we are at least given observer status in eu meetings at such conferences.
mr president, of course the questions and the statistics by our green colleagues are loaded and selective. can i therefore ask if the commission agrees that a eurobarometer survey shows that 75% of europeans favour basic research aimed at new technologies which help knowledge to progress? is it true that, according to eurobarometer surveys, 48% of europeans agree or strongly agree that gm is useful in food production for improved nutrition and for improving shelf life or taste, despite the emotive campaign by the greens to convince them of the contrary? not only are these campaigns emotionally charged, they muster distorted and misleading information to support their ultimately untenable and irrational opposition to the new technology of genetically modified crops. i wish they would be honest enough to recognise that there are at least some benefits. i believe that these actual benefits, not to mention the potential benefits, substantially outweigh any risks. yes, there are always potential risks in any new technology product or process. we are challenging the frontiers of knowledge, but we have safeguards in place. we require exhaustive testing and trials in laboratory and field. but the opponents do not want proof. they condone obstruction and destruction of these trials. will they deny that gm crops have major environmental benefits? not only do they reduce production costs, they also cut back on the use of energy, pesticides and herbicides and reduce co2 emissions. though their opponents are still grasping at straws, it is clear from experience in america and elsewhere that the environment benefits. in europe we can perhaps afford the luxury of denying ourselves the food productivity benefits which gm crops offer, but do our green colleagues not consider the interests of their fellow human beings in sub-saharan africa or east asia to whom gm crops will bring nutrition and health benefits and may even help them survive? do they consider the effect that turning our backs on this advance will have on our scientific base and researchers, on our farmers and farm workers' jobs? on thousands of jobs in the food processing industry? on the price of food as well as the quality and the variety available to our consumers? yes, european consumers are entitled to be able to choose what food they buy and eat. we must protect our environment as best we can, but we also owe it to our constituents to be frank and honest about the risks and benefits. it is accepted that an organic label indicates 95% organic, i.e. up to 5% not organic. why make the non-gmo label almost unobtainable by specifying unachievable levels of purity? i could well accept that premise, with the mischievous intention of making non-gmo so rare that no one could afford it. then everyone will be forced to come to terms with the real world, where there will always be the possibility of some adventitious gm content.
mr president, the last time we debated this, in answer to my question, the president-in-office confirmed that agreements under article 98(2) are compatible with the rome statute and indeed are foreseen in the rome statute. i am therefore slightly surprised at the negative text of the resolution we have before us and at some of the contributions to the debate, because the general affairs council surely produced a very good outcome – european solidarity was confirmed. it was a good example of how the common foreign and security policy works in bringing member states together and it preserved the integrity of the international criminal court. so we should really be welcoming that agreement, particularly as it established the general principles governing any agreement to be signed, including the point made by colleagues that no agreement should be signed if it means that people will enjoy impunity. that is specifically ruled out. we must recognise the reality: the americans need to be brought gently along and persuaded that this is not a witch-hunt against american forces, it is about having international law ruling the whole of global politics.
mr president, i speak on behalf of the socialist group in this debate on a resolution that has jointly been tabled by five groups. this clearly expresses our joint concerns about the executions of women and, more rarely, men by the cruel and barbaric practice of stoning and about the sharp rise in the use of the death penalty in iran over the past two years. seventy-five people died in 2000, 139 in 2001 and so far this year 250. we note the letter of 23 october from the iranian ambassador to the eu, assuring us that there have been no cases of stoning in recent months and that directives have been issued by the competent authorities for the cessation of this process and are being observed. nevertheless, we are not entirely reassured while sentences of death by stoning continue to be passed and while the use of the death penalty more generally continues to grow. the european parliament and the eu generally protest against the use of the death penalty throughout the world, whether it be in the united states, china, japan or anywhere else, and iran is no exception. nevertheless, we recognise that sections of iranian society are trying to move on. forces of progress who want to see a less cruel form of islamic society exist and they are growing in numbers. this resolution does not threaten talks between the eu and iran regarding future trade and cooperation agreements, though it is clear that this will include a human rights clause. the european parliament, which has to approve such agreements, will watch with close attention.
mr president, iran is a large and important country with an ancient tradition of culture and learning going back to the pre-islamic zoroastrian period. it is also a country with which the west has had troubled relations over a number of years. in rejecting western consumerist values, iran radicalised itself and supported radical islamic groups in lebanon, such as hizbollah. there is added complexity because the conflicts with the west have long been bound up with internal disagreements within iran itself. recent years have seen a growing awareness within iran that this isolation was harmful to iranian interests and leading nowhere. the result has been a thaw in relations which we should welcome in the eu. our relations will depend on fundamental progress in the areas of human rights and illegal immigration, weapons of mass destruction, in particular the country's nuclear weapons programme, drugs, the middle east, afghanistan and the battle against terrorism. with regard to drug trafficking, the iranians, who have a very serious drug problem of their own, should be commended for their efforts and cooperation. they have also resisted the temptation to destabilise afghanistan and have indicated they will not attempt to foment instability in iraq in the event of saddam hussein's departure from the scene. iran needs regional stability, and this has been recognised by the iranian leadership. on the middle east, iran has joined saudi arabia in accepting the principle of 'land for peace', if that is what the palestinians want. all of these developments are important and very welcome. iran needs to understand that europe is extending the hand of friendship and that ways can be found to live together without iran losing either its identity or its opposition to the worst of western values. it would be wrong for the european union to overstress the issue of capital punishment per se, which remains legal, if used appropriately, in international law. it is practised in the world's largest democracies such as the usa, japan and india and is supported by tens of millions of citizens in my country, the uk. iran's leaders, however, should be in no doubt about the universal horror felt by us about the barbaric and medieval sharia punishment of stoning to death. i urge the iranian leadership to reflect on this and to find solutions commensurate with iran's dignity and history.
- i declare that i have received a request from the green group/european free alliance, on the basis of article 111a, to include on the agenda an extraordinary debate on the hostage situation in moscow and its tragic outcome, and on the war in chechnya. mr solana is to make a statement and present a report on the eu-russia summit; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on this matter.
- so we agree that a vote is not necessary. the subject will therefore simply be dealt with in the context of the general debate on mr solana's report on foreign policy.
- like you, i find this criminal act utterly horrific and will convey your request to the president.
- the agenda calls for the commission communication on the package of proposals relating to the nuclear sector: permanent shutdown and safety of nuclear power stations in the candidate countries, waste management and nuclear trade with russia.
commission. - (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at today's meeting the commission adopted a series of measures which, within the framework of the euratom treaty, are aimed at achieving a community approach to radioactive waste management and nuclear safety. the package consists of a communication, a proposal for a directive defining the general principles and obligations in the framework of the safety of nuclear installations in the european union and a proposal for a directive on the management of radioactive waste. the package is completed by a draft council decision authorising the commission to negotiate an agreement between euratom and the russian federation on trade in nuclear material. reasons and timing of the proposal. ladies and gentlemen, the wide-ranging debate on the security of energy supply launched by the green paper has highlighted the problem of security of supply in europe and the role of nuclear energy in this respect and in our environmental commitments, in terms of greenhouse gas emissions under the kyoto agreements and the kyoto protocol. in addition, nuclear energy is currently facing two challenges, two problems which have been highlighted in this debate: the safety of installations and the treatment of nuclear waste. although the euratom treaty contains important measures to ensure a high level of safety, particularly in relation to non-proliferation, i.e. the proper use of fissile and radioactive material, the present situation is not as ideal as we would like. first of all, i should like to point out that the various member states of the union do not apply equivalent nuclear safety standards. secondly, it must be said that in the negotiations with the applicant countries we are demanding from the applicant countries obligations and behaviour in the field of nuclear safety which have no parallel in any of the countries of the union. we therefore find ourselves in a situation of considerable disparities at european level. somehow we find ourselves in a surprising situation. as i have said on several occasions, we may have comprehensive, detailed legislation on the quality of bathing water in the european union, but we do not regulate the safety levels required of nuclear installations within the union. but, as i said, in view of the enlargement and the concern of some european citizens, we must act swiftly and decisively. we are building, we cannot put it any other way, an asymmetrical situation between the candidate countries and the member countries of the union. what are we proposing through the proposals? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's nuclear safety is not compromised. the first proposal concerns the strengthening of safety at nuclear power stations and the question of their decommissioning. we are talking about a proposal for a directive which has not yet been adopted because its legal basis is article 31 of the euratom treaty and that obliges us to submit this text to a committee of experts, composed of experts from the various countries of the union; it is still pending this procedure, at which point the proposal will be finally adopted to be transmitted to parliament and the council. the proposal we are putting forward today has three main aspects. firstly, it sets out common nuclear safety rules; secondly, it provides for a community system for verifying the application of these common rules; and thirdly, it guarantees the existence and availability of the funds necessary for the decommissioning of nuclear installations. the common rules are simply based on the rules of the international atomic energy agency, which is based in vienna, but our proposal brings something completely new. the rules, which in the context of the atomic energy agency are simply recommendations, will, thanks to the proposal for a directive, when it is adopted in due course - as i hope it will - become community rules, and therefore enforceable, binding in all the countries of the union and with the legal force that community law always has. but they are also evolutionary in nature and reflect the outcome of the negotiations held over the years with the applicant countries, which have precisely allowed the development of these common standards, which must be respected not only by the applicant countries but, in the commission's opinion, also by all the countries of the european union without exception. the second fundamental question is how, once these common rules have been established, will the effectiveness of their application be monitored? how is the public assured that the required standards are being met at all nuclear installations in the european union? very simply, ladies and gentlemen, by two systems. first, control is required of all countries. it is already a fact that there are independent supervisory authorities. the control of installations remains a task for the national competent authorities of each and every member state of the union. the new thing is that we are establishing a system of cross-checks and audits, which will be coordinated by the commission and will make it possible to ensure that community rules are properly applied in the various member states of the union. the third element of this proposal for a directive is to define community rules for the establishment, management and use of the nuclear decommissioning funds, with the aim of ensuring the sufficiency, availability and liquidity of the funds. we think it is essential, i repeat, to ensure that these funds are available when they are needed. we therefore propose a number of elements, but mainly the outsourcing of these funds or an equivalent means of guaranteeing the availability of these funds to prevent them from being included in the bankruptcy pool, for example, in the event of a bankruptcy, and thus not being available in time to serve their purpose, which is the decommissioning of the installations. the second directive, ladies and gentlemen, will help to create new habits in the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste in the member states of the union. we are not only talking about high-level radioactive waste, not only waste from reactors, nuclear power stations or research reactors, but also radioactive waste from other types of applications, such as medical or industrial applications, low-level waste. firstly, we propose a timetable with deadlines for all the countries of the union to have the appropriate facilities ready and available for the underground containment of high-level waste, because today this is the safest technology for the storage of such waste. in the case of less intensive waste there are other types of containment, but we also propose the availability and establishment of appropriate places. in this respect, i congratulate finland for having already taken decisions with very immediate, concrete dates and timetables, which i think is extremely important. i congratulate finland on its speed. but unfortunately other countries are not so far along and that is why we are setting a deadline. we are establishing the possibility that the deep containment of such radioactive waste can be carried out in a cooperative manner between different states of the union. with this, we are faced once and for all with this thorny issue. secondly, we consider that this solution, although the most appropriate today, cannot be considered sufficiently satisfactory and, in this connection, we raise the need for further research into the treatment of radioactive waste in order to reduce or, eventually, eliminate the existence of this waste. the last proposal, mr president, is a draft council decision to enable the commission to negotiate an agreement with russia on trade in nuclear material. this trade has been the subject of friction with russia for a long time for various reasons. the enlargement will bring five new states, with 22 reactors, in some cases with an anticipated closure; but in any case, for a while, these reactors pose a problem because the limits that currently exist, according to the corfu agreement, would prevent the supply of fuel for these reactors. to deal with this situation, therefore, we must negotiate with russia. all this taking into account the protection of european union companies engaged in enrichment, the protection of consumers, but also the new difficulties that the situation may pose from the russian point of view. this may also open the door, and we hope it will, to demanding and pushing russia to shut down its oldest nuclear reactors, some of which are clearly at risk of causing problems at a certain moment and which are very close to us. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, there is a whole package of proposals aimed at strengthening safety levels at nuclear power stations and installations in the european union, fifteen now and twenty-five tomorrow. strengthen the availability of funds to ensure that the necessary decommissioning can be carried out in time to return to the 'meadow', i.e. to make those places where nuclear installations are present today fully decontaminated, free from any risk. we must increase transparency so that citizens know that there are a number of rules and levels of safety within the european union. and we have to deal with a thorny problem, the problem of waste, especially high-level waste, but also other waste from medical or industrial applications. we must also try to make progress in resolving the issues, difficulties and differences we have with russia, but which also affect future member states of the union. (applause) i would like to thank
- thank you, commissioner. we have many questions from the house. may i remind our colleagues that it is better to ask short and precise questions.
mr president, the commissioner is to be warmly congratulated on the courage with which she has tackled this very difficult problem. i would like to make two points. first of all, for some of the accession countries, the question of financial provision is a very difficult one. lithuania and slovakia were specifically mentioned by the council last week. could the commissioner tell us how that issue is going to be tackled? secondly, about a year ago i took the initiative to invite mr lacoste, the chairman of the nuclear regulators' association, to come to the industry committee. i have kept in touch with him since and we have discussed the possibility of him coming to the parliament to give an annual report on what is happening. could you foresee the inclusion of such a provision in your proposals?
the commission (es) mr president, i would like to reply first to mrs ayuso gonzález. how have the candidate countries received this proposal? among other things with the feeling that at least they won't be discriminated against. because i have to tell you that some candidate country was saying to us: 'we are required to do this and what do you control and how do you know that in all the countries of the union these standards are being met which you are asking me to meet?' and they were very concerned about the future because of the reports they had to submit periodically. how could they be required to do something and not others? i would like to say that in the countries of the present union there is generally a fairly positive acceptance. some countries have problems with certain aspects, but in general i have the impression that acceptance is not negative, but that there is a constructive and positive approach. they are also aware of the situation that enlargement is creating for us and also of the need to provide greater transparency and information to citizens. as for mr turmes, i would like to say that i share the dismay over the tragedy of the plane that crashed in luxembourg and the fire in a railway car in france, both of which are matters relating to my portfolio, to transport. the only thing i can tell you is that the commission, with the cooperation of all of you, is trying to increase and improve the safety systems as much as possible. we do not yet know what caused these two accidents, but in any case we are trying to avoid similar situations as much as possible by using all the systems, both management and technology. we are all appalled and we all share the pain of the families of the victims. as for future directives, the honourable member, we are talking about procedures. it is true that we have not gone into the details. but you know that all this is in the texts of wenra (western european nuclear regulators association), the group of safety bodies in the various countries of the union, precisely in order to be able to demand these standards from the candidate countries. the recommendations of the international atomic energy agency must also be added to this list, and i would stress that these recommendations will become community law and therefore enforceable at union level. the commission has not yet received any comments from the parties. i want to tell you something about radiation protection. first, i draw a conclusion different from what the attorney general says, mr. jacobs. why is security a problem? well, precisely because of the ionization that can occur. so one of the aspects is precisely to prevent - that's why safety measures are taken - these ionisation situations from occurring. the question of radiation protection is therefore, in our view, entirely appropriate. why are radioactive waste storage and control systems being sought? precisely to avoid ionization and radioactive contamination. i mean, for radiation protection reasons. i will tell you that this is a matter which we have discussed at length in the commission and that, of course, the commission's legal service is in full agreement on the legal basis of article 31. we have indeed had a working meeting with mr giscard d'estaing today, but we have not raised the question of revising the euratom treaty. as regards information policy, mr swoboda, i believe that if we really hold a debate here in parliament and in the council every two years, where the reality is taken on a country-by-country basis, and with an overall view - there are already national debates on the situation of nuclear installations in the various countries of the union - so that even those countries which do not have nuclear installations or which only have research or university installations can become aware of what is happening in their own installations and those of their neighbours, we will have made a great step forward. because this nuclear security goes beyond borders and we are all aware of it. i believe that by having a well-prepared, well-conducted substantive debate every two years in the council and in parliament, we are helping to provide citizens with transparent information through all the honourable members and through the debates that take place here. as regards the timetable, the proposal was presented to the group of experts at the meeting of the security committee today and the report is expected to be ready in two months. as soon as that is the case, i hope the commission will approve these proposals and we will send them to the esc and to parliament and the council for final approval.
mr president, there are already some doubts about the viability of the nuclear industry in a liberalised energy market, as witnessed by the problems of british energy in the united kingdom. i would like to seek assurances from you today, commissioner, that in no shape or form can this package be used as a bail-out for the nuclear industry in a way which would prejudice other energy sources and give unfair preference to the nuclear industry in the european energy single market. the coverage of the very considerable costs of waste disposal, for instance, should not simply be lifted from the accounting books of companies producing nuclear energy. in your statement you said you would now make sure that under no circumstances could decommissioning funds be redirected as cross-subsidies for the commercial operations of nuclear companies. could you confirm that there will be no exceptions whatsoever to that and that under no circumstances can decommissioning funds be used for commercial purposes? (applause)
mr president, the commissioner is working under the constraints of the undemocratic and anachronistic euratom treaty. despite this, would you, commissioner, accept the need for the european parliament to give an opinion on the two directives and communication which you are presenting to us, particularly on whether or not the case for deep-level storage of highly radioactive waste has been proved? this is contrary to the views of the british royal society, which finds that the scientific case has not been made.
mr president, the brussels summit was above all about enlargement of the european union. the british conservative party has argued strongly and consistently in favour of the enlargement eastwards of the eu since the berlin wall fell some 13 years ago. indeed, the manifesto on which i and my colleagues were elected in 1999 states quite clearly the reasons why we support this process so enthusiastically. it stated that enlargement is an historic opportunity to advance the principles for which europe should stand: free trade, free markets, deregulation and cooperation. it would also mean more trade, more stability and more prosperity for the existing member states of the european union. furthermore, the european union simply cannot ignore the moral duty that it owes to the countries of central and eastern europe. at brussels, significant progress was made towards achieving agreement on the entry of 10 applicant states at the copenhagen council in december. my party warmly welcomes this. europe will be a better place as a result of enlargement and i congratulate the danish presidency on the skill and the commitment it has displayed in reaching this point. however, given the fact that we have waited 13 years for this historic moment, i want to reiterate that there must be no foot-dragging, no more delays and no more last-minute vested interests should be allowed to stand in the way. on no account should we allow budgetary discussions to be derailed by reopening issues that have been long settled, in particular, the continuation of the british budgetary abatement, which was agreed unanimously by heads of government at berlin in 1999. this budgetary abatement is both fair and justified and any attempt to use it as a smokescreen to disguise unwillingness to reform the cap must be dismissed as political opportunism. i regret the fact that those member states which most actively promote cap reform, including the british prime minister, were so comprehensively out-manoeuvred at brussels. i hope they recover their negotiating skills by the time we get to copenhagen. (applause)
mr president, i too would like to congratulate the danish presidency for being able to keep hold of the big picture and not allowing the summit to be side-tracked by arcane details and what are relatively small amounts of money. we must never lose sight of the fact that the benefits of enlargement far outweigh the costs. the costs of not enlarging are far greater than the costs of enlarging. you may recall that at a previous debate i took inspiration from the late, great elvis presley when he said 'it's now or never'. i would like to take inspiration today from a rather lesser personage, mr iain duncan smith, who yesterday said to the conservative party 'unite or die'. the same principle of course applies to the european union. i am glad to see the brussels summit demonstrate that europe is more capable of learning that lesson than the british conservative party. i recognise the danish presidency's enthusiasm for wishing to carve out a road from copenhagen to copenhagen, but i want to be clear that copenhagen is not the end of the process – hopefully it is the beginning of the end of the process. there is still a lot of work to be done by the candidate countries, we still have a ratification process, and this parliament will take its assent powers very seriously indeed. we will only vote 'yes' if we are clear that a proper deal has been done. so we must not allow the candidate countries to think the process is over. i would like to remind everyone that the commission will be producing a further progress report six months before the date of accession. i would also like to congratulate the danish presidency for establishing an indicative framework for further agricultural spending which in no way prejudices future reform of the cap, nor future discussions on financing the european union, nor our international trade commitments in the doha round. it allows us to move forward but still leaves this discussion open for us to reach a sensible conclusion to that debate. i am also pleased with the wording of the resolution on bulgaria and romania. i recently represented the socialist group in romania, and was singularly impressed by the progress that is being made under the current government, which has finally got to grips with some of the issues. i welcome the decision of the council to increase the safeguard clauses from two years to three years, although i am concerned by the wording which says that these could apply from day one of accession. i assume that relates to the commission's report six months before the date of accession, but i must say it would not give a good impression to the voters, either in the accession countries or in the european union, if we start to apply safeguard clauses from day one. quite frankly, if those are necessary, those countries should probably not be coming into the european union at that point. finally, as a former chairman of the lithuanian jpc, i would remind the council that russia is not a member state of the european union, it is not a candidate country, it does not have a veto over european union affairs. therefore, our number one priority on kaliningrad is to guarantee the sovereignty of the lithuanian state and its ability to enter schengen. i would also like to congratulate the council on resolving the issues relating to the financing of the closure of ignalina power station. this shows a remarkable sign of solidarity from the existing member states towards a small candidate country.
mr president, it is truly wonderful to know that enlargement is so well on track and that common agricultural policy reform will not hold up the entry of the fast track ten. the european commission's regular report marks a critically important step for romania, and, i would guess, for bulgaria as well. yet romania has concerns that her own entry date may somehow be held up by the energy and commitment that we are putting into the first ten. from parliament, we can send a clear signal of our intent by endorsing romania's chosen target date of 1 january 2007. yesterday, in the foreign affairs committee, we agreed to do just that. i hope that this will be passed by plenary too. after all, we in parliament thought of the date of 2004 in the beginning, and the same date is appropriate for bulgaria. turning to turkey, the eu is a secular group of institutions and therefore religion is no barrier to membership. i believe it would be a right and proper endorsement if we were able to send a signal to the new turkish government that if it fulfils the copenhagen criteria of democratic values deeply entrenched and implemented in law, then perhaps the date of june 2004 would be appropriate for negotiations. my congratulations go to all of those concerned in the work to date.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the danish presidency for the conclusions of the brussels summit in preparing the way for these ten countries to begin to assume obligations of membership by the beginning of 2004. but i have questions on budgets, on cyprus and on further enlargement on which i would like further clarification. firstly the budgets: we welcome the overall approach agreed between the institutions on budgetary and financial issues but, as a parliament, we would like to be fully informed by the commission on the stage of negotiations and set up a process of dialogue with the council so we can come to conclusions at the end of the year. in so doing, firstly, we would like some clarity about potential new obligations on foreign policy which could arise as a result of enlargement. we have asked for a report from the commission regarding this which we are awaiting. secondly, agricultural reform: in the house of commons, upon his return from the european council, mr blair said that he was fully supportive of the first point of the agreement on additional limits on expenditure; he was not in support of the price for it – no cap reform. that was defeated at the summit. the question to the president of the commission is whether this reform is still on course and what has now happened to the mid-term review. looking to the future, i would like to pick up mr barón crespo's point. it is not usual for us to be in agreement, but certainly when it comes to financial perspective of 1999, i was against it for precisely the same reasons that he mentioned – how can you plan so far into the future? and, at least until 2013, the parliament itself must be involved in the negotiation of this financial perspective once the negotiations are under way. in terms of cyprus, i would like a clear statement that neither the commission nor the council intends to set a date for the opening of negotiations. we must have the full and fair implementation of the copenhagen criteria in political and economic matters. perhaps, above all, it is a decision for the member states and not for other countries to take a decision as to when a date should be set for turkey to start negotiations. lastly, on the point raised by mr swoboda, it is critically important that we set out a strategy for a 'new neighbours' initiative and that copenhagen should provide a mechanism whereby we can really come to terms with those countries which could be potential candidates. we need a strategy on how to handle the demands which we will face in the months and years ahead. it is not sufficient that we should simply say everybody is welcome, because i believe there is a limit to the matters of eu enlargement and this should be thought about now.
mr president, i also congratulate our danish colleagues on the way in which they have handled enlargement. but, obviously, i have completely misunderstood the fact that we have resolved overnight the issue of the common agricultural policy. the president of the commission said that the common agricultural policy has been solved. i feel that what has actually happened is that the agreement between president chirac and chancellor schröder went in some way to undermine the way in which commissioner fischler was proposing his reforms. the other day when he spoke to the agriculture committee i felt very much that he will be a strong leader in his mid-term review and will carry the reforms through. i also noted that one of the proposals is that we reform the agriculture committee and go for codecision. i hope the council and the commission will support this because it will help to reform the common agricultural policy. we would have a totally different agricultural policy if the agriculture committee had codecision. we have also heard many vague ideas about how we are going to reform it and i put to you one or two ideas that i believe to be important. i ask the commissioner, how will modulation work? how are we going to cope if we do not really reform the common agricultural policy in commissioner fischler's mind when we come to discuss the wto negotiations? there has been talk about capping the common agricultural policy and yet there has been no mention of how we are going to use the funding from pillar one to pillar two. how are we going to fund the new proposals in pillar two? finally, i wish to speak particularly for my constituents in east anglia, many of whom have not drawn on the common agricultural policy because they grow crops which have never been subsidised by this union. they are going to be disadvantaged because, under the new proposals, there will be a payment on historical claims. i urge the commission to rethink that and look at the old iacs forms. you have the measurements, make sure you look at those before you take a final decision. let us make sure we have an agricultural policy which helps our farmers, helps the budget and helps the new democracies. (applause)
mr president, the european council has taken an historic and welcome decision on enlargement of the european union, but what a pity that it did not seize the opportunity to take another historic decision in radically reforming the common agricultural policy. the eur 40 billion a year that the european union spends on the cap is an expensive way to distort our farming industry. british citizens, who already contribute disproportionately to the eu budget, pay twice for the cap: once through their taxes, and again in the supermarket. an opportunity for early reform has been lost. the question of european defence policy was also addressed by the european council. the united kingdom has a special interest and responsibility in this area. after all, it was the british prime minister who gave the green light to this misguided policy in 1998 and now he has promised significant elements of britain's already over-stretched armed forces to fill any capability gaps given the complete lack of willingness on the part of most other european countries to upgrade their defence capabilities in any meaningful way. at the very moment when we should be concentrating on meeting the terrorist threat and on possible conflict with iraq, the defence annexes to the presidency conclusions are ruritanian in their complexity and in their irrelevance. to add to the confusion and waste, european allies are now toying with two separate sets of military capability improvements: those for nato and those for the european union. resources are scarce and the last thing we need is two different sets of capability goals. for over a year now, diplomatic and military staff energy has been wastefully expended on negotiating eu access to nato resources. this is an entirely self-generated problem which, furthermore, raises unnecessary difficulties for key allies such as turkey. we now have the very dangerous involvement of the european convention in defence matters. one of its working groups is examining ways in which even collective defence, a core task of nato, might become a european union responsibility. what signal does this send to our american allies? perhaps more significantly, what signal does this send to potential enemies? what a pity it is that the council and the commission do not focus their efforts on putting the european union house in order before enlargement instead of grandiose political schemes.
- the agenda calls for mr. solana's statement on the situation in the middle east and iraq.
- i understand that mr solana will be talking about chechnya in his introduction.
- as a former president, mr barón crespo, i am sure you are familiar with the conventions of this house. the high representative and the commissioner may speak as much as they wish in this house. both, however, were very punctual in their appointed times. i don't think there's any reason to complain.
mr president, the common agricultural policy is out of date. it is urgently in need of reform if we are going to make a success of enlargement and of our commitment to open our markets to under-developed countries. given the recent attitudes of the council, the european parliament has a heavy responsibility to give strong support to the commission's proposals for a mid-term review. these, though not perfect, point in the right direction. further market reform, with the decoupling of direct payments from production and the reinforcement of rural development, is most welcome. the proposals will put us in a stronger position in the world trade organisation negotiations. however, our agriculture committee is dominated by farmers and farmers' interests and it is blinded by two obsessions. the first is for protection against imported food and the second is for a guaranteed annual subsidy to be available to the farming industry as a whole. the concept of a really competitive european agriculture in the world market without subsidy is far from the committee's thinking. the resolution pays lip service to reform but attaches so many conditions that i doubt whether the needs of enlargement, nor our obligations under the wto, could be met. the agricultural policies should be redirected so that they encourage farmers to be more enterprising. whatever financial assistance is given should not be seen as a right. it must be earned and in a manner that the public can accept. i would have liked to have seen the commission proposals go further. we need to move towards world market prices by progressively reducing direct payments, we need to end quotas and make sure that the annual budget actually starts to reduce. it is ridiculous that 50% of our community budget should be spent on a declining contribution to our gdp.
the commission is aware of the fact that the north korean regime has been involved in a number of serious violations of international law, including the violation of the un charter. this programme is a clear breach of the commitments which the drc itself had entered into under four different international agreements on nuclear energy, including the so-called 1994 framework agreement. the presidency has already expressed our concerns about the european union. in a statement of 18 october 2002, the union not only expressed its deep concern but also urged the dprk to comply with its international non-proliferation commitments and to verifiably freeze its nuclear weapons programme. the statement stated that the breach of the undertaking put the kedo project in doubt. the union also expressed the hope that the peace process on the korean peninsula would not, however, be hampered. the european union also undertook to work with all parties concerned to resolve the situation peacefully. i should point out that similar messages were sent to the deputy foreign minister, who met with commission officials on the very day after the news was made known. it should be remembered that the european community has contributed a total of eur 75 million through euratom during the first five years of implementation and start-up of the kedo project, between 1996 and 2000. and we have committed ourselves to paying 20 million euros a year for the period 2001-2005. i would remind you, just so we know what the magnitude of this is, that south korea is contributing over three billion us dollars, while japan's contribution is about a thousand. the united states has so far provided some $400 million. i would also like to remind you that the framework agreement has been criticised both by some circles in the united states and by the north koreans themselves. however, despite everything, the goal of freezing plutonium production in pyongyang had been achieved. without this achievement, let us remember that the people's republic of korea would simply have separated plutonium for dozens of nuclear bombs. the recent revelations about a programme of uranium enrichment for military purposes raise a new threat to security in the region, although uranium enrichment is probably a slower and more difficult method of producing materials suitable for military use than the use of plutonium that could be produced in pyongyang. both sides agree that the new agreement must be reached through diplomatic channels. the european union is therefore consulting its main partners, the united states, south korea and japan, to see how it can take more effective action to achieve the overall objective of preventing nuclear proliferation and preventing north korea from acquiring such weapons. it seems to me obvious that the european union should not take a definitive position on the future of kedo while other countries - who are also contributing a substantially larger amount to carry out the kedo project - are still weighing their options. in this respect, we understand that we must act in concert with our friends and allies to persuade north korea to honour its commitments on nuclear non-proliferation. we must do so and at the same time ensure that the inspectors of the international atomic energy agency in pyongyang can continue to carry out their monitoring task. i must say, ladies and gentlemen, that i regret that i cannot give more details at this stage, but the essential thing, i repeat, is to achieve the objective which we all want to achieve and to maintain a coordinated position with the other participants in the kedo programme.
mr president, the socialist group welcomes the statement from the commission. there is no final proof that they have weapons-grade plutonium available and, of course, i support the compromise resolution between a number of groups in this institution. we fully and firmly agree with the trilateral statement made by president bush, prime minister koizumi and president kim dae-jung at the apec summit meeting at the weekend calling on north korea to dismantle its admitted uranium enrichment programme in a prompt and verifiable manner and to come into full compliance with all international obligations in conformity with north korea's recent commitment in the japan-north korea pyongyang declaration. nevertheless, we cannot be entirely blind to the fact that the 1994 framework agreement has not been fulfilled in its entirety by the us either. the first reactor from kedo scheduled to be online by the end of next year is currently running seven years late. deliveries of heavy fuel oil, the us contribution to kedo, have, in the past at least, been sporadic. most importantly, the us commitment in 1994 to normalise relations, lift the embargo on north korea – which has been in place for 50 years – and lift the nuclear threat have still not been fulfilled. we welcome the north korean offer to engage in dialogue on all outstanding issues, which may mean that this becomes an opportunity rather than a threat. we need to look at the issue of missile sales and testing, and the linked inevitable missile exports. we must look at the signing of the chemical and biological weapons convention by north korea and outstanding problems around the issue of abductees from japan. also, of course, we must look for a continuation of the human rights dialogue. in the meantime, i hope that the eu, as the only entity with diplomatic relations with the republic of korea, japan, the us and with the dprk, will help to initiate such a dialogue, if possible in concert with the other key actor in the region – china. we must maintain humanitarian aid and continue the training of north korean technicians in europe if only to take this opportunity. two small corrections: firstly, mr gawronski said the north koreans refused our invitation. this was not the case. they only had four days notice and asked for it to be postponed until a later date. secondly, the meeting scheduled for 11 november 2002 will not now take place and i hope we can move an oral amendment to make the point more general in terms of wanting eu involvement at all levels in these discussions.
mr president, north korea is a brutal, secretive communist dictatorship. it has a history of political assassination, blowing up the south korean cabinet in rangoon a few years back. it has blown up a south korean civilian airliner. it has kidnapped innocent japanese civilians, most of whom have died in mysterious circumstances. most recently, it has starved many of its people to death due to its disastrous isolationist economic policies. it remains a failing and rogue state which means that the west, including the european union, must tread very carefully in its attempts to engage with north korea and bring it out of the cold. the dprk agreed in 1994 to freeze and dismantle its nuclear programme, and by its recent admission of possession of nuclear weapons it has clearly breached the non-proliferation treaty and the agreed framework of kedo. i believe it is right to call this regime part of the axis of evil. unlike iraq, which has yet to acquire nuclear weapons, it is now too late to do anything militarily to prevent its nuclear proliferation. every pressure must be brought to bear to allow international atomic energy agency inspectors back in. pakistan, our ally in the war on terrorism, should also be challenged on its role in this weapons programme, as it allegedly provided an exchange for north korean missiles to weaponise its own nuclear bomb. china's role needs scrutiny and that country must be reminded that it is officially opposed to the nuclearisation of the korean peninsula. if the dprk does not agree to reverse its policy and disarm in terms of its nuclear weapons then the whole kedo contribution by the european union should be terminated. i support placing the budgetary line as a first step in the reserve to be released according to diplomatic progress. nevertheless, humanitarian aid must continue through the world food programme and echo. the european union is one of the few bodies to have formal relations with this country and must use its leverage and access to its government to resolve this situation satisfactorily.
commission. – mr president, it is sometimes easy to forget what has been achieved since 1992. many of us no doubt remember the sight of lorries being stopped at our internal borders, their loads inspected and paperwork stamped. the chances of winning a public procurement contract in another member state were then about as high as winning the national lottery. setting up a european banking or insurance network was virtually impossible because of different regulatory requirements. the cost of a telephone call was extraordinarily high, and the quality of service was often poor. cross-border banking fees were astronomical. consumers simply got a bad deal. our citizens were continually frustrated in their efforts to obtain residence permits to live in another member state or to have their professional qualifications, for example as a doctor, recognised. more competition and productivity gains have helped to create many new jobs that would not have been created without the internal market. the commission will soon publish figures on the employment gains and growth effects of ten years of the internal market. these gains have been achieved even though important gaps remain within the legal framework. we face a choice as we look towards the future. the choice is between an ever more dynamic internal market, which will remain an engine for more jobs and affluence in both the old and the new member states, or an internal market which fires on only one or two of its cylinders, and which will be increasingly exposed to corrosive forces. if we choose the latter, we might just as well give up on our lisbon objectives. a decade ago, there was much steam behind the internal market programme. today, there seems to be far less appetite for taking difficult political decisions. even during the last two years, when times were good, we have accumulated a delivery gap. the community patent, compat, is perhaps the best example. how can the council seriously say that it wants europe to become the most competitive economy in the world if it is not willing to adopt this critical measure for innovation and growth? the competitiveness council will have another go at resolving compat's problems next week, but my patience is wearing thin. we need to create an internal market worthy of the name also in services. the services sector constitutes a full 70% of all our economies and unfortunately it is still rife with barriers. make no mistake, once we tackle these barriers, the vested interests will again make themselves known and call on members of parliament and ministers to defend the status quo. we shall need the parliament’s strongest support to overcome that resistance to change. some erosion has also slipped into our framework for the free movement of goods. mutual recognition, one of the bases of the internal market, is not working as well as it ought to. national marking often acts as a hidden barrier to trade. in some important industrial sectors, there are not nearly enough european standards. these weaknesses in the foundations of the internal market will be exposed even more strongly after enlargement. we need an integrated capital market that is capable of channelling today’s savings into tomorrow’s investments. we need to strengthen corporate governance, taking due account of the ideas expressed in the recent winter report of high-level company law experts chaired by professor jaap winter. we must offer our companies the flexibility to organise themselves on a continental scale, including through takeover bids. we need to remove tax obstacles, which add unnecessarily to the costs of doing business. we need to open up further the network industries. we need to deal with the pension time bomb. we need better and simpler rules. rules need to be transposed on time and correctly. we talk about biotech as one of the growth sectors of the future of europe. but only six member states out of fifteen have now transposed the directive on the patentability of biotechnological inventions. this transposition was due 18 months ago, so nine member states have stepped out of line and are lagging behind in this area. overall, the transposition deficit for internal market directives is moving away again from the 1.5% target set by the european council. we have our work cut out. i know that none of this is easy. taking decisions will probably become even more difficult in an enlarged european union. there is a real risk that the delivery gap will grow wider unless we begin to act strategically by putting the european union’s long-term interests before narrow sectoral interests, which oppose change. we have the strong support of our citizens and businesses. next week, the commission will publish the results of a major survey on ten years of the internal market. i can already tell you that the survey shows that 77% of our citizens and 84% of our businesses feel that the internal market has been a very positive force in their lives. they want the internal market to serve them even better in the future. at the level of the parliament, the commission is eagerly awaiting the forthcoming report on the internal market strategy, for which mr harbour is the rapporteur. i expect the report to be ambitious and hard-hitting. the recent creation of the competitiveness council also represents a welcome opportunity to make progress. ten years after the removal of our internal borders, one year into the euro, and on the eve of enlargement, now is the time for a major new push to improve the internal market. i count on the council's and parliament's support to work towards an ambitious medium-term internal market strategy, which the commission aims to present by next april. if we act decisively, the best is yet to come.
president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, i am very pleased to have this opportunity to discuss the state and progress of the internal market with the european parliament. i'm sorry i was a little late. the eu is facing major challenges today. we have to deal with the forthcoming enlargement with 10 new member states, while still needing to implement a number of reforms in order for the eu to function as an economically strong global player. as president of the european union, i have chosen to discuss the state of completion of the internal market with you today, as i consider it crucial that we have a real internal market with all the new countries and that we also have an outwardly competitive economy - in line with the ambitious lisbon vision. the european parliament is today a key co-legislator in the development of the internal market. as president of the council (competitiveness), i therefore believe that it is a matter of course and not least necessary to discuss this subject with parliament today. it is 15 years since the idea of a single market was put on the agenda. it is almost 10 years since the single market was put on the rails. the single market is one of the most ambitious goals ever set in the history of the european union. in the sectors where we have achieved our objectives, the benefits for european consumers and businesses have been enormous. the single market has brought more and better products at lower prices, free movement across borders and, not least, improved competitiveness. but at the same time we can say that unfortunately there are still many difficult issues to be solved before we have a fully fledged internal market. the danish presidency has chosen to give this area a very high priority. this is because, firstly, a well-functioning internal market is a key element in the eu's competitiveness, economic growth and employment. secondly, the development of technologies and markets makes it necessary to remove the remaining barriers to cross-border trade. thirdly, the increased economic globalisation requires more rapid action on structural reforms. the proper functioning of product and capital markets is essential. the single market must be able to deliver what our citizens expect of it: a wide range of products and services that are of high quality, that are safe and that are affordable, and then also free movement across internal borders without unnecessary red tape. the forthcoming enlargement is of vital importance. the applicant countries are working hard to prepare for accession. i have full confidence that they will do their utmost to live up to the legislation that we have adopted over the last many years, and it is our task to assist them in the best possible way - also after accession. the potential of a new and enlarged internal market is enormous - for citizens and businesses alike. with a single market of 100 million more consumers in fast-growing economies, we will have faster economic growth and more jobs in both the present and future member states. a 2001 commission study shows that enlargement will lead to an increase in the gdp of the applicant countries of between 1.3 and 2.1% per year. for the existing members, the increase in gdp will be 0.7% overall. the growth potential of the forthcoming enlargement will depend on whether we can complete the structural reforms that are still lacking. some of the greatest challenges we face are the completion of the internal market in those areas where the internal market is not functioning as intended. the services sector is central to european growth - 2 out of 3 jobs are in the services sector and private and public service production accounts for 70% of gdp in the eu. the commission's report on barriers to the internal market for services shows that there are many barriers, both regulatory and non-regulatory. we'll have to figure that out. as soon as the commission has put forward its proposals, the council and the european parliament must decide how we can remove the remaining barriers as quickly as possible. the internal market for financial services is also extremely important. financial markets are global and therefore need to be regulated at eu level. the economic benefits of implementing the financial services action plan have been analysed by, among others, the so-called gyllenhammer group. the analysis indicates that financial integration will result in an annual increase of up to 1⁄2% of gdp. i am pleased to note that 30 proposals have now been adopted, including 4 of the 8 proposals mentioned in the conclusions of the barcelona european council. the free movement of persons and businesses is also essential. increased mobility is key to maintaining good growth while avoiding bottlenecks in parts of the union. many changes have been made to company law, but further harmonisation has been needed in the light of the enron scandal, among other things. the internal market in electricity and gas is also an important element in the completion of the internal market. the presidency attaches great importance to ensuring progress in this matter. the aim is to reach political agreement on the whole package of measures for the internal market in electricity and gas at the energy council on 25 november. a dynamic consumer policy in an enlarged union must take account of market developments and the real needs of consumers for protection. the european union has a long history of developing and implementing a wide range of policies and instruments. the green paper provides a good basis for further work. finally, it is more important than ever that we have simple and better rules, so that it is easier to be a citizen and to do business in the eu. the council reached agreement on the amendment of the procurement directives at its meetings in may and september and the presidency is now working to ensure that a common position is transmitted to parliament as soon as possible. we must work together to ensure the simplification and improvement of eu legislation through the effective implementation of the commission's action plan. the commission's studies show that improving legislation could save businesses some eur 50 billion a year, equivalent to 4% of gdp. the presidency has given this matter high priority. in its conclusions of 30 september, the council gave priority to simplification of regulations, impact assessments and methods of monitoring the implementation of the action plan. the aim is to have the interinstitutional agreement adopted by the end of the year. it is obviously dependent on the progress of the negotiations currently under way with the european parliament and the commission. it is impossible to meet all the wishes if the agreement is to be concluded before the end of 2002. the competitiveness council, together with the european parliament and the commission, has a responsibility to ensure that we make progress in strengthening growth and competitiveness in the eu. we must remember that the solution to these challenges requires close cooperation. the competitiveness of enterprises and the maintenance of economic growth are tasks requiring joint action. it is in everyone's interest that we cooperate as effectively as possible so that rapid progress can be made in the legislative areas where we as legislators have a shared competence and a shared responsibility.
mr president, i am delighted to welcome the statements of the commissioner and the president of the council both on behalf of my group and as the legal affairs committee's rapporteur on the internal market strategy. these statements are very important and very timely. from my own point of view as a british conservative member who joined this parliament three years ago and who has been consistently engaged in internal market activities since then, it is the first time we have had a statement of this kind. it does mark something of a milestone for me, and i hope for the parliament. we must ensure that we do not have such a long gap between these sort of engagements and discussions about future strategy. i also hope, on the tenth anniversary of the 1992 programme, that colleagues will not mind me mentioning that it was a british commissioner, lord cockfield, who was responsible for pushing that programme through with the active encouragement of the british conservative government under prime minister margaret thatcher. this tenth anniversary provides us with an important opportunity to launch a new initiative to push on further and faster with the drive towards completing the internal market, shifting it into higher gear. that can only be done by engaging all of the european institutions, business and consumer organisations in a much more powerful coalition. there is a sense in which we have taken the internal market too much for granted. as both the commissioner and the minister said this morning, that certainly is not the case. i want to say to commissioner bolkestein that, as the rapporteur for the committee, my draft report is certainly going to be hard hitting and ambitious. i hope my colleagues will support me, and i think they will because the legal affairs committee has been a strong supporter of internal market policy. we have had lively debates, but the general direction will move towards the sort of programmes that the commission wishes to encourage. we are certainly prepared to rise to the challenge of creating the internal market for services. that is going to be difficult and will need a lot of political support, which, commissioner bolkestein, we will give you. as for the council, i would like to commend mr bendtsen very much on his leadership on this issue and on launching the competitiveness council. you do not need to wait for the commission to take initiatives to move this forward. looking at this report about the barriers to services in the internal market – which, colleagues, i urge you to read – it is clear that member states could now get on with the task of freeing up business establishment, removing the bureaucracy about the launch of small businesses and encouraging service businesses to establish in other countries. those of you in the competitiveness council could take that initiative next time you meet. you do not need to wait for the commission. this is the sort of positive approach that we want to see the member states making and clearing up the sort of deficits in transposition that mr bolkestein identified earlier. so, please, council, take the initiative. in conclusion, a few months ago mr bolkestein published an article on the parliament's work on sales promotion directives, which was headlined 'parliament comes to the rescue of the internal market'. we are not here just to rescue it, we are here to drive it forward and that is what we intend to do over the next 12 months and beyond. (applause)
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his wake-up call on the internal market, which is to be congratulated on its ten-year anniversary. we sometimes forget that the internal market is still a process and represents a lot of unfinished business and you were right to remind us of this, commissioner. if we look at our committee's agenda, most of the work has as its basis the good functioning of the internal market. still, sadly, as you reminded us, with issues like the community patent, those big decisions are still being flunked, sometimes, it has to be said, in the council. it is strange because the internal market has been such a success story for europe, a vision that we managed to sell effectively to our citizens in the run-up to 1992. maybe it is drifting a bit and it really is time to re-engage our citizens, and particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, in what we are doing. what is in it for them? how does the market work for them? it is again a paradox: with the euro and with e-commerce, the internal market really ought to be taking off. although you mentioned a survey which showed so much support for the internal market, i really do not think we can take that for granted. i and my colleagues on this committee were glad to be a part, some months ago, of an internal market forum that was organised in this parliament. we should do more of that to re-engage with our citizens and businesses about what the market is there for. if we achieve that, and if citizens and businesses are engaged, the level of implementation and excitement in member states will be much greater and much more complete. i would like to echo maria berger's concerns about the european convention. the internal market must find a key place in those discussions, or we risk losing what we have created and made such a success of.
mr president, i want to put my voice mainly on the side of what mr harbour, commissioner bolkestein and others have said about the need to develop and improve the single market, particularly in the context of services and patents and other matters which have been discussed. we must, however, bear in mind that the confidence of our fellow citizens in this process also depends on proper observation of what you might call boundary conditions. for example, the single market could clearly be pursued in a way which ignored environmental side constraints. that is not happening, but it is vital that this situation be sustained. the same applies for certain social conditions and constraints. in relation to services, there is a nervousness among our citizens about public services and services of general interest. to what extent are these fully exposed to the single market conditions and to what extent are they properly kept aside? i was looking today at commission document com(2002) 208 and just reflecting on what we mean by services of general interest. i note the following definition, at 3.1.5: 'services of general interest are defined in the commission communication on ‘services of general interest in europe’ as being services which the public authorities class as being of general interest and subject to specific public service obligations'. i do not think i have ever come across such a fine exercise in tautology in a public document. a service is a service of general interest if the public authorities say that it is in the general interest, and that is how they define it. now, what that suggests is a certain conceptual lack of clarity. we have a notion that there is an area here which is subject to different conditions and constraints from that aspect of the market in services which lies fully in the private sector. if we do not get that right, we will definitely lose the confidence of our citizens. i have a large mailbag dealing with the fears people are now expressing about the way in which the general agreement on trade and services might be likely to go and the effect that could have on public services in europe. as well as being clear about the need to extend and improve the single market and what the limiting conditions are, let us try to get out of the realm of tautology and into clear thought.
rapporteur. – mr president, the case of the reverend raymond owen raises a number of interesting, not to say esoteric, points. members may feel that whether a priest is employed by his or her church or by god is a question that must have been decided decades, if not centuries, ago. in preparing this report, i took informal advice from leading churchmen, but have only received a formal submission from the archbishop's council of the church of england on 4 november 2002. not surprisingly, there are certain parts of the report with which they do not agree. i will come back to them shortly. however, the fundamental questions of principle thrown up by this case include whether members of the clergy should enjoy the same rights as other citizens. as i have made clear in the report, while directive 2000/78/ec establishes a general framework, i accept that certain types of worker must be dependent on definitions in national legislation and implementation. i also accept that directive 91/533/eec, while applying to clergy in some member states, does not apply in the uk, and that the various directives are vague and imprecise in their reference to workers, employees and the working population. who falls into which category is frequently left to be defined by national law. members may be interested to note that while our staff and assistants are clearly employees, we are not covered by any of these definitions. the conclusions of the report accept and include those of the committee on employment and social affairs, which is the committee with the competence and expertise on most of the issues raised by the petitioner. i have to say that my opinions, and those of my colleagues in the british conservative delegation, are somewhat at odds with some of the conclusions reached but after exchanges of views, however, it was clear that the report faithfully reflects the consensus of the committee. the submission presented by the petitioner highlighted prima facie evidence of shortcomings in the church of england's procedures. in fairness, i must tell the house that since the committee adopted the report, the church of england has pointed out that the decision taken was not to terminate reverend owen's tenure of office. rather, it was a decision not to grant an extension beyond the 18-month extension allowed in section 20 of the 1983 pastoral measure. i should remind the house that as the church of england is an established church, its rules and regulations form part of the canon of the law in england, although not in the rest of the united kingdom. it is clearly not the role of either the committee or this house to adjudicate in questions of fact. equally, it is accepted that the petitions committee is not a judicial body and nor should it exercise or try to exercise a quasi-judicial function. nevertheless, it is clear that the directives in the area of employment, and in particular the aforementioned directive 91/533/eec, are confusing and even inconsistent. accordingly, the report calls for a review to clarify this position. in parenthesis, this only serves to underline the wisdom of the former conservative government in opting out of the social chapter. finally, while we accept that where protection is afforded to workers by european legislation, it should extend as widely as possible. it would be quite wrong for the european union to try to impose a monolithic structure that would not allow for diversity in cultural, religious and social customs in member states. this is a sentiment that i am sure will be heartily endorsed, not just in lambeth palace, but also in the vatican. therefore it is my sincere hope that, as pointed out in paragraph 12 of the report, the commission works with member states to find the means of securing for workers with distinct constitutional status all the employment rights consistent with their national policies as soon as possible to avoid further such confusion.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. – mr president, it seems clear that the reverend owen's situation does not involve any breach of the letter of european community law, contrary though it may be to its spirit. the european parliament is therefore grateful for his petition since it draws attention to a problem with the law. as the earl of stockton has already pointed out, because directives use a variety of terms to identify the range of working people they cover, and because that range is often left to be determined by national law, certain groups may fail to benefit from the protection they afford. it is of course accepted that there can be some differences, both in the extent of employment rights, and in the means of redress in the event of breach. this is particularly so where those involved have a particular constitutional status. members of this or any other parliament would not, for example, be expected to be able to appeal to an industrial tribunal against the decision of the electorate not to return them for a further term. that said, all those in a working situation should have the fullest possible set of rights with deviations permissible only where these can be fully and objectively justified. in the case of the clergy, such rights may not be for the secular authorities to determine, but surely in such instances the churches themselves should aspire to the highest possible standards, particularly where avenues of redress and issues of discrimination are concerned. following the petition we are asking the commission to review european employment legislation to ensure that it is as comprehensive as possible. it is good to know that, in the uk, such coverage is something to which the department of trade and industry is already directing its attention. we are also asking for constructive dialogue across the european union to secure for all those in non-typical but economically dependent working situations – including, where necessary and by appropriate means, the clergy – all the employment rights, both substantive and procedural, that must be regarded as fundamental to a dignified working life.
mr president, as you suggested this may seem something of an obscure and even idiosyncratic issue to reach the floor of the european parliament. for the reverend owen, however, it is anything but obscure. it is his livelihood, his home and i suspect even more than that, it is his belief that right will be done, that justice will prevail. it would seem that the legal system cannot defend him, although he has done no wrong. increasingly, i fear that appeals to a moral principle do not work, although one might have hoped that within the church of england, and i am myself a communicant member of that church, such an appeal might get some countenance. i am afraid that once the lawyers of the consistory courts don their wigs and gowns it is the letter of the law that will prevail, rather than moral justice and still less christian spirit. i hope the publicity of this case is making the bishops of the church of england feel just a little ashamed. if the church cannot set an example of christian charity, understanding and fair treatment towards its servants, who can? the church should not be surprised if its pews are increasingly empty. it is a clear tribute to the democratic procedures of this house, and to the work of the petitions committee, that the reverend owen has at last found one public body which is at least ready to listen, one that does not require expensive lawyers. i trust that his grace, the new archbishop of canterbury will carefully consider this small and obscure case and show that the church has not totally lost its belief in christian charity, and might accord to his rector the rights that other european citizens enjoy as employees.
mr president, on behalf of the socialist group and as a member of the petitions committee i welcome both the report from the earl of stockton and the opinion from the employment and social affairs committee drafted by mrs attwooll. the reverend owen is actually in the gallery today listening to this debate. his case is very simple. he was employed as a team rector in stoke-on-trent for a number of years. there was a secretive and flawed review of his work in the post and a decision was made at a meeting, without proper notice, that he was to be sacked. he was given no reasons for his dismissal. like any employee he believed he had the right to an independent appeal against this casual ending of 30 years' work with the church and a threat to his tied accommodation. without a post in the church he would be evicted from his family home. to cut a long story short, he was refused access to an industrial tribunal in the united kingdom because of a 1911 judgment that members of the clergy have no terrestrial employer, that is, he is employed by god, although god does not sign his stipend cheques at the end of the month. however, employment legislation and the world have moved on since 1911. for example, women even have the right to vote, and, in the united kingdom, female teachers no longer have to resign on getting married. even in the eu, we have legislation that should apply in this case. no longer when you join the church should have you have to leave your basic civil rights at the door. the employment and social affairs committee backs that argument, the petitions committee backs that argument. we believe that clergy throughout europe should have the same employment rights as millions of other workers, the same rights as they enjoy already in denmark, and in the united kingdom if they happen to be hospital or prison chaplains. so there is even an anomaly within the united kingdom. we hope the uk government and the commission will look again at this matter. i still believe that the directives have not been properly implemented in uk law. the reverend owen seems to meet all the criteria for being an employee. that the reverend owen has been badly treated by the church of england seems very clear, and we hope that on the basis of this particular case, which is illustrative of a much more general problem affecting hundreds of clergy in the united kingdom every year, the commission will press the uk government to close the loophole for future cases. in the united kingdom, there are 30 000 clergy treated in this feudal manner: more than the number of those employed in the mining industry. across europe, close to a quarter of a million clergy, encompassing all faiths and religions, are employed and at the moment have some doubts as whether they are covered by this legislation. finally, while we do not expect miracles, we ask that the church authorities in the uk practise some of the christian charity they preach in this particular case.
mr president, i would also like to thank the rapporteur and mrs attwooll for providing the opinion for the employment and social affairs committee. it is a pity that this is beginning to sound like a british debate, because a number of the issues here actually apply right across the european union. as we have heard, the case provides an example of just one of the many anomalies which occur in employment law in many of our member states. generally of course these only come to light when people want to cross borders to work and find that their employment status changes and thus their rights to social security and employment-related rights change as well. in this case, as we have been hearing, we are looking at a national situation in which historical anomalies, and to some extent theological anomalies, have led to an unacceptable situation which has already been clearly outlined. we found that the reverend owen discovered that the means open to him to seek adjudication of his case lay either within the body against which he wished to complain – thus making this body judge, jury and defendant, one of the minimum standards that we do not want to see applied across the european union – or with a judicial review which can examine the process but not the content of the complaint. as the commissioner has already pointed out, it appears that the situation is legally correct. morally, however, it is certainly is not correct. the european union seeks to establish at least satisfactory core standards in its employment law and expects member states to implement these standards, and the spirit of them, across the board. my group therefore fully supports the call for member states to review their employment practices to ensure that situations where individuals are denied access to normal dispute resolution procedures in employment are as few as possible, can be fully and objectively justified, and that redress is available in other forms. we also support the call for clear definitions of employment status to be used. we raised this issue in the discussions on the insolvency directive and will be doing so again in connection with the coordination of social security systems.
mr president, i too would like to congratulate the earl of stockton on the production of an excellent report and also elspeth attwooll for the very clear opinion she produced for the employment committee. i would also like to congratulate the reverend owen for the courage and determination he has shown in pressing his case this far. those attributes, together with his communication, advocacy and other skills, really make me wonder why the church of england wanted to terminate his services in the first place. i think he would be a considerable asset to any organisation and i hope they will think again. there is no doubt in my mind that he has been given a raw deal. either he had an employment relationship with the church of england – in which case he would have had the protection of well-established procedures in uk employment law – or he was an office-holder who should have had the protection of the church of england's own code of recommended practice, including the right of appeal. he seems to have fallen completely between these two stools and therefore a real injustice has been done. it is in that context that we need to read paragraph 2 of the earl of stockton's report, where it mentions an unacceptable situation in terms of the spirit of article 136 of the treaty of rome, article 47 of the charter of fundamental rights and freedoms on the right to a fair and public hearing by an independent, impartial tribunal, and article 6 of the european convention on human rights. it is quite right to underline those references. there are broader implications arising from this case, as jean lambert has said. there are increasing numbers of workers right across the european union who find themselves totally dependent upon one source of income but who are not regarded in their national law as having an employment relationship. these quasi-forms of independence and self-employment are spreading. we have been working with the commission on this for some time and most recently in relation to the latest review of the insolvency directive. the commission has commissioned a study as a result of our work on that review and it has also committed itself to holding a joint hearing with the employment committee to seek to establish common definitions. without such definitions, it is increasingly clear that larger numbers of workers will find themselves outside the protection of the law. we need to establish definitions which will apply across the european union. finally, i would like to echo the sentiments of other members in expressing the sincere hope that even at this late hour all of the parties involved in this dispute can get back around the table and, in a christian manner, right the wrong which has been done to the reverend owen.
mr president, our first report is from the petitions committee by the earl of stockton on the case of the reverend owen. it is unusual in that it is a report on the fate of a single individual within the european union. members may be interested to know that the reverend owen is with us today in the public gallery. (applause)
mr president, the meeting mentioned on 11 november 2002 is now no longer taking place, so we would like to amend paragraph 6 to read 'expects the eu to be invited as a full member to all meetings discussing the future of kedo'.
in writing. -(en) the debate on the design of european economic and social cohesion policy after 2006 is far from over. this is not the time for the european parliament to present fixed criteria. the aim of this report is to indicate the direction parliament would like to see the debate take. until we have more detailed information on the needs of regions whose economies lag behind the union average, we would be making a political mistake if we said that we want to keep exactly the criteria that are currently in force. that is why the pse group voted against amendment no 12 by the rapporteur.
mr president, on a point of order, i wish to ask whether you can confirm whether the reindeer were on the ground or in the air at the time. (laughter)
mr president, on a point of order, you are aware that the joint parliamentary assembly is due to begin next monday in the hemicycle in brussels. i understand that the conference of presidents has sent quite a strongly worded letter to the belgian authorities concerning the prospect of two members of the zimbabwean delegation being on the visa ban list. i understand that visas have now been granted to those two ministers from zanu-pf and they are due to arrive in brussels tomorrow. mr president, could you give us some indication what action the european parliament will now take on this very serious matter?
mr president, on a point of order, i endorse the remarks that have just been made, but could i also suggest that, if there is any question of this joint parliamentary assembly going ahead somewhere else and the banned zimbabwean ministers still being there, it should be recommended that members of this house do not join in that assembly for as long as those ministers are present.
mr president, on a point of order, because of the historic debates that will take place this part-session there is no question time. i had submitted a question to the council on the legislative process and the way in which this house is potentially being treated in relation to the proposed directive on legal aid. the council intends to adopt this measure at the end of the month on the basis of a different text to that on which parliament was consulted. this will avoid the codecision procedure, which would kick in after the end of the month, and it also avoids the strong advice of the commission that the council should reconsult parliament. i should like to know, on behalf of this house, why the council feels it has no obligation to reconsult us. does it not agree that this action runs absolutely counter to the principle of mutual respect and good faith between these institutions in the legislative process, as set out in the treaties and endorsed by the court of justice? mr president, this is serious and i would ask you to look into it.
mr president, on a point or order, i am following on from what mr van hulten said concerning wednesday, 4 december. as a member of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, i am well aware of the constitutional and practical importance of moving forward with the statute of members – even though i would not myself have chosen this particular way of doing it. however, i note that on the agenda for that day there are major debates on fisheries – the first for ten years – looking at the fisheries industry of europe at a critical time. constituents all over europe will wonder what the european parliament is thinking and doing about that. what the newspapers will tell them is that parliament delayed discussing it until it had talked about its own pay. this is a scandalous state of affairs. i hope that if the conference of presidents persists with this agenda in this form it will change the order and bring the fisheries matter – which is of utmost importance – before and ahead of the debate on the statute of members. (applause)
mr president, on a point of order. i welcome the recent acquittal of the british and dutch plane-spotters on spying charges in greece and the fact that the appeal court had the integrity to put right the original miscarriage of justice that the conviction represented a year ago. i recall that it took many years to right similar wrongs in cases in the united kingdom in the 1980s, so i am pleased that, although a year is an ordeal for the defendants, it was no longer. but the fact is this prosecution should never have happened and the way it developed raised a lot of concerns about the treatment of defendants and trial standards. it is therefore essential that we progress the agenda for ensuring high minimum procedural standards of justice for persons accused in criminal proceedings which the commission will be putting forward in a proposed framework decision next year. we also need to put flesh on the bones of our human rights commitments in the european convention on human rights and the charter of fundamental rights.
mr president, in 1997 the process by which fixed and mobile telephony and television and the internet were increasingly coming together was known by the buzz word 'convergence'. the commission adopted a much heralded green paper on this subject which promised a brave new world of horizontal regulation across platforms. the reality was much more prosaic. convergence did not happen quite to the extent predicted and the commission confined itself largely to revising the telecommunications regulation package to take account of new technology. since that time, however, we have witnessed a wave of mergers and take-overs in the media with the emergence of vast conglomerates such as aol time warner, cbs, viacom and vivendi universal. yet the commission has not explored the idea of cross-media ownership and media concentration in any detail since its 1994 follow-up to the green paper on pluralism and media concentration. the commission's silence on such an important issue seems particularly strange because the european parliament has been calling for a directive on a level playing field and media pluralism since the 1990s. i recognise that regulating the media is a highly sensitive issue. the media is not like any other industry as it lies at the heart of our culture, our way of life. a diverse and pluralistic media is fundamental to democracy, freedom and cultural diversity. but in view of the trend towards media concentration, towards the dominance of certain media conglomerates, my group believes it is high time that we come back to this issue. what are the principles which should underlie our approach? first of all we must recognise that a thriving media is the hallmark of a free society. if control of the media becomes too narrowly restricted in the hands of a small number of people this poses a danger for democracy. the media needs to be sufficiently diverse for all important points of view in society to be effectively presented. otherwise there is a danger that dominant media players can restrict access to information and thereby move public opinion. avoiding media concentration is also important to our economy. some have argued that with the explosion of different types of media, including digital, satellite and cable television, as well as the internet, monopolistic control is impossible. however, many of these different channels of communication are now controlled by the same media conglomerates, which can thereby cross-promote these services and provide incentives or pressure advertisers to buy space or air time in other media they control. last but not least, media concentration has implications for our cultural diversity. a europe in which the media is dominated by a few major players risks being one in which certain regions, cultures and minority groups are granted less access to the media. a diverse media is likely to result in more home-grown original content, whereas large media groups may not resist the temptation to fill their air time with cheap imported programmes and repeats. for the eldr group there is a clear case to look again at this issue. my questions to the commission today are: what action does the commission propose to take? if the commissioner takes the view, as i suspect he may, that there is no legal basis for action, i would remind him of the articles of the treaty governing the single market. i would remind him too that article 11 of the charter of fundamental rights guarantees media pluralism and if that charter is integrated into a new constitutional treaty, as liberal democrats hope it will be, would that not provide a necessary legal base for action? will the commission undertake to bring forward a white paper updating its 1994 communication in the light of technological change and developments in the industry? it seems to me that we cannot ignore the dangers that media concentration poses to our society. the power of media ownership now frequently extends across national borders. given that a free and diverse media is essential to our continent's democracy, prosperity and cultural vitality, it is high time that politicians face up to their responsibilities and return to this issue. (applause)
mr president, i take issue with most of my colleagues who have spoken in the debate so far, as regards their desire to rush into some form of undefined new directive or regulation on so-called concentration and media ownership. as mr byrne pointed out to us in an admirably clear intervention, there is no treaty base for it. how is it going to be defined? how far do you intervene politically in issues of media concentration in areas that, as the commissioner pointed out very clearly, cut across a whole range of other weapons the commission has at its disposal to regulate monopoly power, a word that has been freely bandied around this chamber this evening? if there is monopoly power commercially, then the instruments are there to tackle it and they should be used. i wonder how many colleagues who have contributed to this debate this evening have actually bothered to read the new package that regulates electronic communications. mr watson, who opened the debate, probably has not, because if you look at that regulation – and i was one of the colleagues that worked on it very closely – you will see that it anticipates the fact that we will have convergence and that the big issues that are opened up in the world of convergence are about controlling access to channels. there are provisions in this regulation to open up access, to make access available on fair reasonable and non-discriminatory terms, again key words we should be thinking about in any context, particularly in media. it also makes provision for public service broadcasting, an issue that we ought to be discussing more in this context, to allow governments to open up channels where they feel that public channels should be conveyed to the market place. those issues are already there. do not ignore them. i agree with what mrs hieronymi said. certainly we should invite the commission to look at this problem, but the last thing we should do is to anticipate the results of that analysis.
mr president, i would like to contribute to the debate this evening on behalf of my colleague, lord inglewood, who is a victim of the famous deer incident which has extensively been referred to already. i would like to focus on the principles behind the proposal, rather than the detail, which has been covered very comprehensively by colleagues. this is a long-standing issue and it arouses understandable emotions. it is perfectly reasonable that member states should wish to control tobacco advertising and sponsorship and the commissioner was quite right in his opening statement where he particularly focused on directing advertising to young people, to try and control new smokers coming into the smoking market. but i would argue still that the zeal to do this must not override the principles of the european treaties. we all know that the first time this was tried the commission was too greedy. it exceeded those treaty powers and it lost the entire directive. in the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market – and i remind colleagues that this committee was right the first time round – this proposal runs the same risks. that is why we invite you to support our amendments. if you do not support them, you carry the risk of the whole directive falling. the second point i wish to make concerns the whole question of subsidiarity. the committee on legal affairs and the internal market's proposal ensures that member states take that responsibility. it derogates those powers to member states. mr fiori said earlier on that it is not what we want to do, it is what is appropriate in the circumstances. there is a lot of talk about subsidiarity at present. many colleagues are engaged in debates on subsidiarity in the ambit of the convention. this is a real test of that. you may want to do something, but it is not necessarily in the competence of the european union to do it. that is what we are saying in this case. that we should not discourage member states from doing it. this is the real test of how serious you are about the principles of subsidiarity. that is why you should support the committee on legal affairs and the internal market's line when we vote on wednesday.
madam president, it is on record that the outline regulations on the common fisheries policy were not agreed until eight hours after the community had opened the accession negotiations with the united kingdom in 1971. the head of the british delegation, sir con o'neil, remarked that these two events were not unconnected. prior to that there had hardly been any interest in a community fisheries policy because the founding six had virtually no fishing resources. britain, ireland, denmark and norway all had rich coastal fisheries and they had been kept in good condition by effective conservation measures. o'neil attests to this; experts from the british ministry of agriculture produced a report showing that british waters were literally teeming with fish, whilst there were very few within the fishing limits of the present community countries. the main evidence for this is that community waters did not attract foreign fishermen, while british waters most certainly did. after 30 years of the cfp, britain's waters no longer teem with fish. to paraphrase sir con: 'these two events are not unconnected'. yet still members of the committee on fisheries seem unable to make the connection. they call for more technical and human resources. they want more money for research. they want management plants, sustainable development, integrated policies, multiannual plans, the application of the precautionary principle and, wait for it, target reference points for biomass and fishing mortality. if jargon were the solution, member state waters would still be teeming with fish, the cfp would be a world-beater. but all that jargon does is to hide an uncomfortable truth: the common fisheries policy has not worked, does not work and cannot work no matter how much reform is dressed up in flowery words. as long as fish are considered to be a common european resource, there will be no sense of ownership or responsibility. predatory fishing becomes the norm. it is an inevitable consequence of the policy and leads to the depletion of stocks. reform is not the solution. the cfp cannot be reformed. it has proved to be incapable of reform. it should be scrapped and fisheries should be managed once again by national governments.
madam president, the management of eu fisheries is at an important juncture with key stocks in the north sea and elsewhere in decline and the future of fishing and fish processing industries therefore under threat. so it is essential that the commission gets it right, proposing a management system which ensures sustainable fisheries backed up by up-to-date independent and verifiable scientific evidence involving stakeholders and installing confidence in the system. however, as the first set of cfp reform proposals nears a conclusion, i find myself more cynical about the process and less optimistic about the future for scotland's fishing-dependent communities than ever before. why should this be so? is a workable eu fisheries policy achievable? i have always believed that the only way to succeed in achieving the necessary balance between resource, harvesting and conservation and to better encourage compliance with any management regime is to have a regime with which the stakeholders can have some faith. that is why i have welcomed the commission's support for regional advisory councils as a step in the right direction, towards a much-needed new and better way of doing things. actions, however, have to accompany words and i have been shocked by the attitude displayed by the commission recently in relation to cod and other white fish quotas for next year. to announce the possible closure of the scots fishing industry with the 'we know best' and 'it's all your own fault' statements attributed to commissioner fischler seems to fly in the face of the stated intention to involve stakeholders more. this 'tough guy' approach, presumably designed to make the actual outcome for next year seem relatively palatable, should have no place in a new cfp. the sad truth is that irreparable damage has been done by the commission in the last six months to the scottish confidence in europe being capable of managing fisheries at all. with mr fischler's about-turn on deep-water management, followed by the insensitive presentation of the ices's advice on cod and its repercussions for scotland, it is little wonder that conspiracy theories abound. does commissioner fischler want to be remembered as the architect of a new and successful eu fisheries policy? or the one who brought desolation to communities and destruction to a way of life? sadly at this moment, he seems to me more likely to achieve the latter. i and the leadership of the scottish fishing industry have played a constructive role, working with environmental organisations in the consultative process towards cfp reform. i would like to see the commission and the council taking due account of that and giving some return and not penalising the scots for their efforts.
madam president, the cfp has totally failed. it has not maintained the fishing stocks or fishermen's jobs. discarding nearly two million tonnes of healthy fish each year is absolutely ridiculous. fish do not swim separately in the sea. they swim together and the sooner we work that out the better. the 6- and 12-mile limits must be confirmed permanently. i am not convinced by the argument that we cannot do it and i shall be voting firmly for the fact that these limits should be etched in stone. not only must those 6- and 12-mile limits be there, but they must be managed at a local level and properly devolved from brussels, not just some token gesture. if local fishermen have proper ownership of these waters, the conservation measures will work. in the north sea cod is disappearing. is it a coincidence that the cod are disappearing in the areas where the industrial fishing takes place? we take out millions of tonnes of sand eels and scour the sea beds, and the cod eat sand eels. it is not a coincidence. we must do something about it. norway and iceland have good fishing stocks and they are not part of the common fisheries policy. again, is this a coincidence? i would agree here with mr mccartin. do we need to make fishing resources part of the common fisheries policy? i will say this quite bluntly: if the commission cannot run the common fisheries policy properly, then send it back to the member states and let them do it.
rapporteur. – madam president, thank you for extending the debate to give me a chance to get here and participate. it took me 16 hours to travel here to strasbourg today. two weeks ago i went to hobart in tasmania in less time than it takes to get to strasbourg. when i find out that part of the reason for the delay is reindeer running on the runway of the international airport in strasbourg, i find that utterly incredible. firstly, i understand that during the debate a great deal of concern has been expressed about the wreck of the prestige off the coast of galicia. i hope that from what has been said in this debate my colleagues will agree with me that we should be calling for the commission and the eu institutions to take all possible steps to aid galicia in dealing with this horrendous problem. the newspapers in scotland today were calling it the ‘costa del muerte’ and saying that 3 000 tonnes of oil had already been spilled. i understand that the tanker contained 70 000 tonnes of oil and the idea of a spillage on that scale is absolutely horrifying. we are dealing here with a debate in which you have heard mr parish expressing a great deal of anger. you have heard mr hudghton also expressing anger from a scottish perspective. part of this debate deals with the commission's roadmap. i should say at the outset that the recent scientific advice from ices, which recommends the complete closure of the whitefish sector in the uk and ireland, points to the fact that to have a roadmap is superfluous. as far as the common fisheries policy is concerned we are on the road to nowhere. what is the use of debating future fisheries policy in this chamber tonight if for british and irish fishermen there is no future? what is the point of discussing multi-annual management plans if tax and quotas in the north sea, the west of scotland, the irish sea and the kattegat are to be set at zero for at least the next five years? what an indictment of the common fisheries policy! what a sorry state of affairs that after 20 years of failed policies we are now looking at the destruction of an industry that is as old as mankind itself. in the name of conservation our fishermen have been forced to dump millions of tonnes of prime fish back into the sea dead to comply with the lunatic quota scheme. in the name of conservation our fishermen have suffered tie-ups, lay-offs, emergency closures, decommissioning, job losses and plunging incomes and now the message from the scientists appears to be that everything they have advised in the past has failed – all the technical conservation measures, all the increased mesh sizes, the square mesh panels to allow young cod to escape, all the emergency closures of cod spawning grounds, the 40 000 square miles of the north sea closed for 12 weeks last year without one penny of compensation paid to the fishermen, the three years in a row that the irish sea has been closed for cod fishing, the massive decommissioning round that took over 100 demersal vessels out of the scottish fleet alone. all of these measures recommended by the scientists and ordered by the commission have apparently failed. it beggars belief. there is no place in the common fisheries policy for our roadmap if 20 000 fishermen, fish processors and harbour workers are facing the closure of their industry and the loss of their jobs. there is no justification for closing the whole whitefish sector. seven hundred thousand tonnes of cod were caught in the northeast atlantic last year. that does not sound like a species on the verge of collapse. tens of thousands of big mature cod are being caught around the faroes and iceland where they have no cfp. if the cod have migrated northwards due to global warming, pollution or the north atlantic drift, then no amount of draconian measures will make them return. it is true the cod have gone from the central part of the north sea. nobody is disputing that. but their place has been taken by prawns, now one of the biggest fisheries around the british isles. we know that cod is a key predator of prawns so it is not surprising that when the cod decline the prawns thrive. but it is also a fact that prawns feed on cod larvae, so once the cod have gone they may never return. that has certainly been the case in canada. i do not accept that the possible recovery of cod stocks is in any way an adequate justification for the sacrifice of the prawn, haddock, whiting, plaice, and flatfish fisheries. nor do i accept that there are anything like sufficient funds in the budget to even meet a fraction of the likely socio-economic impact costs which this catastrophic proposal implies. so there is no point in discussing a roadmap tonight.
mr president, i was scheduled yesterday to speak in the debate on the media but, unfortunately, because of problems getting to strasbourg, i was unable to make my timeslot. i simply want to say that coming from the united kingdom – renowned for its fogs, not to say for its smogs – i can in no way criticise the climate of strasbourg. indeed, i want to congratulate and thank the airport staff for putting safety first. i simply want to apologise to the presidency and to the house for missing my timeslot. i had left my home at 6 a.m. in a brave attempt to be here.
co-rapporteur. – mr president, the process of enlargement is one that we all broadly welcome. while making great demands of the candidate countries, it is a pity that the european union has not already put its own house in order. in particular i am thinking of the need for reform of the common agricultural policy and the commission's financial management. it still seems incapable of properly accounting for the massive public funds put at its disposal by our taxpayers. i also hope that, once the candidates have overcome their first flush of unquestioning enthusiasm for the european union, they will begin to adopt a more sceptical attitude to many aspects of the european union project. after all, since most of them have rejected the ghastly communist experiment that so distorted and corrupted their countries for the past 50 years, i hope they would wish to oppose inappropriate intrusion on their national sovereignty and the tide of leftist political correctness that is too often generated by european union institutions. speaking now as the rapporteur for bulgaria, i especially welcome the parliamentary delegation from bulgaria. i recognise the enormous progress that bulgaria has made in economic, political and social reform in recent years. its ambition to join the european union by 2007 is realistic and we should say so. we must give it every assistance to achieve this ambition. bulgaria has made great strides in recent years. there is now a properly functioning market economy and progress has been made on privatisation. the proposals for reforming the civil service and for tackling corruption are also an essential basis for political and economic change. so much needs to be done in so many areas. there is a vast grey economy and there is high unemployment, features not entirely unknown in some of the countries that are already european union member states. macro-economic progress has yet to trickle down into tangible economic benefits for the population at large. there are still major areas of poverty. this applies not just to the roma population, where more vigorous action is required, but to bulgarians more generally. the most vulnerable element in any population are the children and i have drawn particular attention to the need for more resources, including community funds, to be targeted in bringing about major improvements in child welfare and childcare. i must mention the kozlodvy nuclear power plant and in particular the closure dates for units 3 and 4. strong opinions have been voiced on this issue and unfortunately it has become a symbolic argument, with people digging in on both sides. safety considerations must always be paramount when dealing with nuclear power. but there seems to be no good reason on safety grounds why closure should not take place in 2008, rather than 2006, if this would make a significant difference to bulgaria's economic situation. the eu peer review, conducted under the auspices of the council, should make this decision, taking account of the results of the iaea mission in june and an objective analysis of the economic consequences of closure.
co-rapporteur. – mr president, i wish to thank the conference of presidents for creating and sustaining this unique part-session. i should also like to thank our former colleague, mr haarder, and his team because they are creating an historic danish presidency. i pay particular tribute to the commissioner himself and to his team. the commissioner's powerful leadership has accepted no obstacle that would delay enlargement and he and his team have successfully tackled and overcome immense and daunting problems and have brought us to the happy position we enjoy today. i welcome most particularly in that context the romanian parliamentary team. romania, in common with other candidate countries in this two-part but single enlargement, has made substantial progress and her progress has been particularly marked since december 1999 when the new government took office, after the helsinki conference. if romania follows faithfully the commission's new and excellent roadmap and has the support of the commission, the council of ministers and parliament, romania can most definitely reach her target date for eu entry of 1 january 2007 and reach that date not by right but by her own achievement. i therefore wish profoundly to retain that target date in parliament's report. i am confident that by the end of this week romania will become a member of nato. by 1 january 2007, with hard work, consistency, application and our support, she could be here. i commend romania's progress to this house.
mr president, as speakers have already said, this has been an historic day for the current process of enlargement. i would like to look beyond copenhagen to see what is going to happen in the next stage. some speakers have raised the question of whether valéry giscard d'estaing's comments about turkey were outdated, whether this was the wrong message at the wrong time and whether, if turkey should become a member, that would really be the end of europe as we know it. he is right to raise this issue, because once we say yes definitively to turkey and give it a date, how can we say no to ukraine, belarus and other countries which probably have more of their landmass within europe than turkey does? mr rasmussen, mr watson and mr haarder have been very liberal in saying that once the political criteria have been met we can give a date for turkey. what about the economic criteria in the copenhagen declaration of june 1993? central to that declaration was the question of institutional stability, which we all seem to be forgetting as we go about welcoming countries into the union. do we really think that the union is going to be stable once turkey, and perhaps other countries, which will then no doubt be welcomed under the same criteria, have joined, and that the union can then be effectively managed? this question will be examined at the nato summit on enlargement later this week in prague. the question which people are now asking is whether nato is really capable of acting and whether it will be really effective once it has more central and eastern european countries? the same applies to the european union. the helsinki council made turkey an official candidate country. so did the association agreement of 1961, but will the european union, with turkey as a full member, really be fully capable of acting and democratically accountable? my thesis is threefold. firstly, we should pause once the ten countries have come in and once we are completing the negotiations for romania and bulgaria. to set a date now, or even to set a date for a date, is premature. secondly we must examine every single avenue, such as a special partnership with turkey, before we commit ourselves to the full process of opening accession negotiations. perhaps most important of all, the copenhagen council should set a process in motion, as mr prodi mentioned this morning, to consider our approach to future candidates seeking membership of the union, so that we know how to deal with them. in conclusion, the european council, headed by the danes, is sleepwalking into the future. it is easier for everyone to say yes rather than no, but at this stage it seems that no member of the european council wishes to say yes to turkey, but none wishes to say no either. let us be clear in our thinking and let us have a clear strategy so that we can assure europe's citizens that in ten years' time they will have a stable, prosperous and effective european union.
mr president, the cypriot accession will only have truly succeeded once we have seen a profound reconciliation of greeks and turks. thankfully the proposals of kofi annan seem to be a sound constitutional basis for such a reconciliation. the package borrows cleverly from the swiss model of the system of government and the belgian model for european relations. what is now upon the table seems the best possible deal that the turkish cypriots can ever expect. it provides them with the status of legal and political equality and protects their interests as the smaller community. it commits the refounded republic of cyprus to supporting membership for turkey itself and its transitional arrangements seem to be able to satisfy most of the demands concerning property, residency and self-esteem. mr erdogan, mr simitis, mr clerides and mr denktash must now prepare themselves to take a dramatic step towards integration and reconciliation and reject partition and revenge.
mr president, i have had the privilege of working for the past three years on the eu-lithuania joint parliamentary committee, where we have had to deal with several difficult issues which have already been mentioned, so i will not repeat them. the determination of the candidate countries to overcome these problems and work positively has resulted in incredible progress. for a small country like wales, which i represent, it is also significant that many other small countries will be represented here in the european parliament in their own right. the group of the greens/european free alliance wants a europe in which these small nations and regions play a significant role and where, at a future date, countries like wales will have the same rights as our friends from the ten candidate countries. they must ensure that there is respect for minorities and that further steps are taken towards regionalisation. europe is becoming more diverse, not just economically and socially but also linguistically, culturally and politically, and we welcome this. we must work towards a real europe of the peoples, with equal rights and equal respect for everyone.
mr president, this is a period when we confirm the end to historic divisions. firstly i would like to say a word about cyprus and urge a positive response from the turkish cypriot authorities to the annan plan. i realise that mr denktash is sadly still very unwell, but it must be possible to signal agreement on this plan as the basis for negotiation. i know the majority of turkish cypriots want that positive response. secondly, i urge support for amendment no 24 to the report, tabled by the eldr group. this calls for the transformation of the accession monitoring process into a system of mutual peer review applicable to all member states, old and new. this would ensure respect for democratic accountability, integrity of public administration, non-discrimination, civil liberties and the rule of law. we need to invest money, time and effort in our systems of democracy and justice throughout the european union. the existing 15 member states are certainly not perfect and we need to invest at least as much as we do in our agriculture. we spend a lot of time talking about agriculture and structural funds. we need to spend at least as much time talking about the underpinnings of democracy and justice in all our member states, through mutually constructive evaluation.
mr president, the eu-lithuania joint parliamentary committee met in brussels last week and the discussions confirmed the progress made towards accession which is spelt out in paragraphs 78 to 84 of the report. two chapters remain to be closed. firstly in agriculture, where some flexibility on the issue of quotas would be welcome and secondly, in the financial chapter, where the contribution to the financing of the closure of the ignalina nuclear power plant and the provision of alternative electricity generation are outstanding matters. this requires agreement on the decommissioning procedures and the timescale. the jpc noted the need to closely monitor progress with the sapard, phare and ispra programmes and to ensure that lithuania is fully prepared to exploit the structural and rural funding possibilities after accession. the early approval of the single programming document is essential in this respect. regarding the recent agreement made over the russian enclave of kaliningrad, i want to stress that lithuanian sovereignty must be respected and schengen membership not compromised. we are, however, concerned that the practical problems may delay the implementation. i have made a study of the nuclear aspects of accession. the closures of the nuclear power plants at ignalina and kozloduy both require an energy strategy which takes neighbouring countries into account. for example the completion of unit 2 at cernovoda is fully justified by the phare study of august 2001. the closure of units 3 and 4 at kozloduy should be reassessed in the light of the international atomic energy agency's conclusion, in its report, issued in june that these units have reached a level of operational safety which corresponds to those of the same age in other parts of the world. i hope that the council will agree to such a revaluation.
mr president, i speak as a member of the eu-bulgaria joint parliamentary committee and also as shadow rapporteur on romania. i will try to be brief. on the issue of bulgaria and romania we need a target date, a focus. therefore i fully support the proposed target date. also, during a recent visit to malta i saw the wonderful work being done in connection with sexual orientation. we must not leave that out of the equation when we look at the rights of minorities. it was clear to me from the work of the malta gay rights movement that the employment industrial relations act is not compliant with the employment framework directive, especially in relation to sexual orientation. i welcome the positive statements on turkey. as regards the negative statements on turkey, i am afraid that, sadly, we have seen racism and xenophobia rear their ugly heads. we must apply the same terms, conditions and principles. we cannot be selective in the application of principles. the same principles must apply to all the candidate countries and also to the countries such as turkey which have indicated that they wish to join the european union. if we turn turkey away, i believe that will be an action that we will live to regret.
mr president, in relation to yesterday's minutes, under item 2 in the errata section there is a comment about amendment no 742 on the budget. the general rapporteur and i would disagree with what is printed here, but i am not too sure what the correction should be. before we agree that as a minute, can we have an investigation into what exactly the vote was on so as to clarify the situation?
mr president, i ask you to join me in welcoming my two constituents, paul and lesley coppin from mildenhall in suffolk, who are in the chamber this morning. they are two of the fourteen british and dutch plane-spotters who were thankfully acquitted of charges of espionage in their recent appeal hearing in greece. i know that they are very grateful and would want me to put on record their gratitude to meps from all the different countries of the eu who supported their case. they are with us in strasbourg this week because they are determined to work with us on new minimum standards for defendants in criminal cases europe-wide. this is something that the commission is proposing in its work programme, which happily we are about to discuss.
mr president, the eldr group has always been quite critical in the past of the somewhat incoherent and arbitrary nature of previous annual programmes. we have always looked for two things in this programme: firstly, a clear idea of the political direction reflected in the strategic choices taken by the european commission, and secondly, a political debate between the institutions themselves. there has certainly been some progress on those two counts this year, compared to previous years. we wish to thank the commission for keeping to the format and timetable of the new arrangements and certainly thank the college for being present in such great numbers here today. however, as president prodi himself said, there is still some room for improvement. the eldr group would like to highlight three areas where we feel there should be further improvement. the european commission aspires to be an eu government of sorts. good governments make strategic choices. they set political priorities. that importantly means they explain what they are not going to do as well as what they are going to do. the concern we have is that, even in this improved document, the three priorities are so broad and open-ended that they do not really represent any meaningful political choice. this is reflected in the annexes. the annex covering the actions undertaken under the three priorities run to around 40 pages. more worryingly, the annex covering the issues which fall outside the priorities runs to 50 pages. in other words, we are faced with the prospect that the majority of the initiatives undertaken on the basis of this annual programme next year will actually fall outside the political orientation set in the annual programme altogether. that is simply not the way to proceed. once again this resorts to a sort of laundry list approach to legislative initiative and we as a group would like to see a much greater display of choice and political orientation as regards what the european commission proposes to do from one year to the next. the second point is the level of detail provided for each proposed legislative action. this has certainly improved compared with previous years but that was not difficult. it is still not sufficient and i would like to draw the commission's attention to the fact that in the convention there are proposals being floated to involve national parliaments in this debate in future. this annex is almost incomprehensible to meps so it would be utterly incomprehensible to mps in national parliaments. it needs to be explained in clear, cogent, simple prose so that it is comprehensible to people living in the world that exists outside the institutions. finally, the third point is our strong support for the commission's stated intention of applying impact assessments to a number of pilot initiatives. we feel impact assessments are absolutely indispensable to improve the quality of european legislation but we would like to take it a step further in two important respects. firstly, we do not feel that in the long run the commission can be judge and jury on its own impact assessments – assessing its own draft proposals. we feel this should be done independently. secondly, there is little point in the commission conducting its impact assessments if parliamentary and council amendments then escape impact assessments altogether. therefore we would like to see an interinstitutional approach which applies impact assessments at all points of the legislative cycle.
- mr. prodi has to leave early to return to brussels, due to the weather. that is why we shall hear his response to the speeches now being made. i understand that mrs. palacio is going to answer questions standing up during the "catch the eye" procedure.
president of the commission. mr president, it is not so much a question of time as of whether i should meet mr erdogan in brussels, which i think is appropriate to do in this circumstance, precisely because the winner of the turkish elections is visiting brussels. i shall be meeting him this afternoon, and i think that is important precisely because i believe that we need a strong and direct dialogue on these issues. these are the most profound, the most essential issues we are facing and so i think it is worthwhile to go into them, as i shall do in brussels this afternoon. i would like to reply to the first objections, and then leave it to the commission to go into them in greater detail. some of these issues are absolutely essential for our future action. mr grossetête spoke of action in the mediterranean. i totally agree. i myself have on many occasions been embarrassed by the position, common to all the leaders of the mediterranean countries, which accuses the commission directly: you chose the east over us! my answer was simple: the need of history has led us in that direction, but our intention is first of all to strengthen the policy of barcelona, which still has very considerable problems of development. secondly, to set up the new policy which i have briefly described to you - the 'ring of friends, everything but institutions' - and which, that is the point, i hope the greek and italian presidencies next year will help to reinvigorate, and that is precisely because we have, in one year, two mediterranean presidencies in a row. i have already spoken to the greeks about these issues and the commission's desire to fulfil this function, and i will do so later with the italians because i consider it very important. i would also ask you to strengthen our common action in the mediterranean. let's go back to our working method. this is a classic interinstitutional cooperation theme. it is a wide-ranging issue, of great political significance, but in which we must take a whole series of operational decisions, since we cannot make declarations of principle alone. the mediterranean policy will lead us to choices and decisions which will affect the budget and the whole of our course of action. i therefore believe that interinstitutional planning must take precedence on this issue. mr grossetête also mentioned the problem of a programme report by each commissioner to the committees of parliament. i have nothing against this, in fact it can be useful, precisely because this process is new and we need to improve it. we will consider the proposal and i think we will also accept its meaning; i just want to avoid the risk of fragmentation. there are some moments when, while holding these insights, we must have a synthetic moment: the commission's proposal for a programme at the beginning of the process and the final decision at the end of the process. i wish these two moments were kept here. it is clear that the debate will have its technical moments, its particular aspects. we are prepared for this, but the starting and the ending moments are for all of us, not just for one part. mr barón crespo, first of all, the proposal for the commission's programme generally comes from the relationship between the commission and parliament, which is a very delicate operation. i would like to point out that the commission's programme for 2003 is about new initiatives. the council's programme covers, for the most part, initiatives already presented by the commission but not adopted. in this sense, this report must be with the council, because we have now a backlog of problems on which parliament has already done its work. of course the commission fully supports the european parliament - we have done so consistently - so that the council involves parliament in its whole programme. the commission also sets out its political priorities to the council, and has already presented them to the general affairs council on 18 november. we must also have a strong relationship with the greek presidency in this respect. on the question raised by mr barón crespo about the statute for political parties, i will say that we will present the new proposal as soon as it comes into force. we agree on its importance. we are just waiting for the time to present the proposal that we will all have to discuss together. on the question of interinstitutional resolutions for 2004, i think that the speech made by mr barón crespo is very important, and i fully agree with him. the commission has constantly drawn the attention of the presidency to the need to find solutions which respect the proper functioning of the institutions. an agreement with parliament is obviously necessary. when this kind of legislative bottleneck arose, the commission immediately pointed out the need to coordinate parliament's and the commission's timetables. we have already stressed that a new parliament must be set up in coordination with the new commission. these decisions are, in my view, absolutely appropriate, but time is short because solutions must be found within copenhagen. i think that in order to meet this proposal, we could discuss it at the next interinstitutional summit to be held at the end of november, beginning of december, precisely in order to try to reach an agreement before copenhagen. i stress the absolute importance of this aspect because we cannot be faced with a new parliament, a commission that lasts three months, followed by a new commission, with the change of all the bodies, with the consequent absolutely non-functional aspects. we are extremely concerned about this. i fully share mr frassoni's concerns about sustainable development, which will be discussed by commissioner wallström later on. the commission will be represented by commissioner nielson on johannesburg and vice-president de palacio on transport. i just want to point out that in johannesburg we took a very strong and also very uncomfortable position. i am not ashamed to say that the third world countries, in this case especially the african countries - africa, in fact, is the real big problem - tend to distinguish less and less between europe, the united states or other countries. it is a matter of concern to all of us. although we have, in these years, carried out a truly responsible task - the kyoto protocol, everything but arms, strong decisions to open our markets unilaterally, strong decisions on the kyoto protocol, strong decisions on many aspects of development aid, such as in monterrey where we obtained the minimum that was obtained on foreign aid, even if it was really an absolute minimum - we must not be surprised that there is a reaction from the third world that involves all of us together, without distinction. this is a matter of great concern and requires very serious reflection on our part. these are the positions we must take on this matter. another concern expressed by mr boudjenah is the interpretation of the problems of peace and development as a synthetic fact, as a problem of a general nature. i agree - and i repeat - with that too. on these issues, such as world pluralism, multilateralism, we need to take an even more absolute leadership role because there is no one else who can keep them open, and we know how valuable they are at this time. we must also be honest and say that these are matters which can be kept open in a credible way if there is also a financial commitment, which is very difficult to make at the moment. i think we should really have a serious political debate on this, because it is clear that without the appropriate use of resources we are more like moralists than capable of changing the world situation. i repeat: we have done so much, we have set an example. we must continue, but we need a leap in quality and quantity. this brings me to the final part of mrs poli bortone's speech on the subject of immigration. it is true that there is not only illegal immigration, it is true that the problem of integration is a problem that must be discussed, but first of all there is the big question of integration or non-integration. but i must say that the majority of immigrants coming to europe are increasingly stable, increasingly eager to integrate into our european countries, wherever they come from, with greater ease and integration in some cases, with greater difficulty in others. i am convinced that the future cohesion of our societies requires a major effort to promote this integration. it is a subject which, i repeat, has very different facets and characteristics for europe, depending on the country of origin and the country of transposition, but the risk of fragmented societies is one we cannot run. it has been a very strong personal experience for me when i have visited, over the years, various italian immigrant communities in germany and belgium. every time i saw complete integration, i realized that this was the only way they could have happiness, serenity, a chance to play cards with their fellow citizens. full integration is, in my view, a great goal of an open society: and this in absolute respect of all cultures, in absolute respect of characteristics, in order to have societies free of conflict, free of tension. this, of course, requires an immigration policy which is much more complex and much more organic than what we have so far prepared.
- we now come to the "catch the eye" procedure.
the commission is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a directive on equal opportunities for women. i do not know whether the chairwoman of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities understands that this is not sufficiently reflected in the texts. it is possible, but i want to tell you that it is systematically present, because it is our obligation and we all want it that way. as regards some of the ideas you have put forward, namely that we should make mathematical equality in representation in the various bodies, i must say clearly that this is not in our programme. in this connection, i would remind the president - who is also a greek - of the famous myth of procus.
- as there are many requests for the floor, we will hear the commission last rather than at the end of each speech, in order to speed things up.
mr president, in relation to the commission's work programme on enlargement we have, as we would expect, a very thorough and indeed a very formidable programme to achieve in the next 12 months, in which the commission has to address a large number of areas including, in particular, monitoring the progress of the candidate countries. can we be assured that even when the treaties are signed there will be no winding down of dg enlargement? that will ensure that we have the staff to carry out the monitoring process, which is still important right up to accession. secondly, the focus will inevitably move on to the stability of our borders, as the commission says in its programme, but it does not say what new steps we are actually going to take. we talk about relations with moldova, for example. moldova is very close to being defined as a failed state. how are we actually going to deal with it and with ukraine, with which we have still tried to have relations? in relation to bosnia and kosovo, are we simply going to carry on as before, or are we going to look at enhancing our work there in order to better secure our borders? finally, we put emphasis on the cfsp in preparing the commission's role in that area. however, defence procurement and securing the future of european defence industries are important. to that end we have previously had action plans from the commission on how it can use its instruments to support that process. commissioner liikanen keeps promising me that he will put forward a further action plan, but i see no reference to that in the annual programme. are we going to see an action plan on future defence industries and on defence procurement, and are we going to see the commission using the instruments it has available?
- the "catch the eye" procedure is over.
mr president, this has undoubtedly been a good debate between the institutions and 2003 will be an important year against the backdrop of enlargement. we must ensure the good functioning of the union for our citizens present and future. that applies very much to the process of how we legislate, how we implement legislation and how we enforce legislation. the debate has been very wide-ranging debate as regards how we legislate in this process. however, i could not help thinking while listening to the many detailed questions that we have heard that perhaps more of what i and my colleagues have been dealing with could have been dealt with at an earlier stage in the committees, to give us a more strategic debate here today. on behalf of my group, i welcome the emphasis on impact assessments and the emphasis on involvement of our citizens and transparency. that has to be the right way forward. i would raise some concerns about the commission's powers of enforcement in terms of infringement proceedings as we move towards enlargement. we must make sure that sufficient resources and measures are available in this respect. the same goes for the court. the court has to be fully resourced in order to carry out its tasks in the difficult times that lie ahead. we have had a good debate, a good exchange, but i still am left wondering whether it has truly been the strategic debate that should have engaged all of this house and our citizens outside. we have done well but we could still do a lot better.
mr president, i can assure mr poos that we understand perfectly what he is proposing and it is the inclusion of the second part of amendment no 9 that we specifically object to.
mr president, on a point of order, that does not come under rule 110a. this is a second reading. (laughter)
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to add the words 'the financial reference amount has to be compatible with the ceilings of heading 3 of the financial perspective'.
mr president, i would like to add a fifth footnote, beneath the table, saying: 'the financial reference amount has to be compatible with the ceilings of heading 3 of the financial perspective'.
mr president, to clarify this matter i would like the words 'and their constitutional regions' inserted after 'member states'. this is a matter of real concern in many parts of europe, including scotland.
rapporteur. – mr president, for clarification, i would like to ask the house to accept the addition of the words 'if legally possible' to this amendment. it would now read: 'believes that the 6-12 mile coastal zone should be maintained and established as an element of the common fisheries policy for an unlimited period, if legally possible.'
rapporteur. – mr president, again, in line with the previous oral amendment, could we withdraw the deletion of this particular amendment and for clarification add the words 'if legally possible'? it is now brought into line with the decision we took on the earlier amendment.
mr president, media concentration is an important issue not only at european and national level but also at sub-member state level. there is a significant problem in scotland. in the central belt of scotland there are two serious broadsheet newspapers, the herald and the scotsman. the herald has recently been put up for sale by the scottish media group. rumours have it that the current owners of the scotsman – the barclay brothers – are trying to buy the herald. this would result in a monopoly of serious media coverage in the central belt of scotland. so when we examine media concentration we should look at its impact at every level. i would hope that the uk authorities will listen to the advice of this parliament and ensure that the barclay brothers are not allowed to acquire ownership of the scotsman newspaper.
in writing. - i have proposed an oral amendment to this resolution. i wanted to make it clear that in countries like scotland and other constitutional regions there should be safeguards against newspaper mergers which threaten the fair and pluralistic nature of debate. in scotland today, there is a serious risk that the owners of the scotsman will take over its main rival the herald. other similar regions have similar problems, including catalonia, the basque country and wales. the british conservatives and their epp allies, in close ranks, blocked an oral amendment which would have highlighted this aspect of press freedom. let them deal with their conscience! even without this oral amendment, the resolution makes the relationship between a free press and a real democracy a vital point. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - this report was voted on in accordance with rule 110a, which does not allow for any debate or amendment of the report. the british delegation of the epp-ed group has in the past sought to amend reports which it did not support. the new rule, however, leaves us no choice but to vote against certain reports. although the conservative members of parliament want to fight corruption, we believe that this issue should not be dealt with at european level, but within the member states. we are prepared to cooperate with the authorities of other member states, but we will not support the option of harmonised maximum sanctions.
in writing. - this report was voted on in accordance with rule 110a, which does not allow for any debate or amendment of the report. the british delegation of the epp-ed group has in the past sought to amend certain reports which it did not support. this new rule, however, leaves us no choice but to abstain in certain respects. this is a very sensitive policy area. the delegation from the british conservatives is particularly concerned with protecting children and their rights, and the standards applied in the uk are generally very high. this is why we believe that improving standards and protecting children are areas where best practice should be shared. however, the introduction of such regulations could slow down the process of general improvement.
in writing. - there is no doubt that this is the first step towards a series of proceedings before the ecj.
in writing. - although conservative members of parliament support any initiative to strengthen cooperation between the law enforcement services of each member state, we cannot support binding european measures comparable to those proposed in this report. such issues should be addressed at member state level.
mr president, i should like to add my support to your speech on the scotsman and the herald. before i begin on the stevenson and souchet reports, i find it quite disgraceful that colleagues in this house do not recognise that half a million eu citizens die every year because of tobacco use. a tobacco advertising ban would be an extremely good measure to try and help public health and save lives. on the stevenson report, i should like to point out that we voted to maintain the 6-12 mile zones to preserve historic fishing rights and derogations relating to boxes in the north sea. we also believe that benefit from fishing agreements should be taken into account in quota setting and that poverty eradication is a key aim of fishing agreements. we are very sceptical of an amendment deleting the recital which noted that joint ventures can be used to massage fleet reduction figures. on the souchet report, we voted against amendments nos 10 and 11, and recitals h and i for sustainability reasons and abstained on the final vote for very similar reasons, i.e. the environmental impact and making sure sustainable development is at the heart of the policy.
- explanations of vote are closed. (the sitting was suspended at 1.37 p.m. and resumed at 3.03 p.m.)
mr president, i do not doubt that is what the president's notes say, but one of the problems with accepting it is that my notes and those of other members and of the general rapporteur say differently. the problem is that my notes are in brussels, not here in strasbourg, so when i saw this in the minutes i asked to raise it. could i ask that we check the audio or video tapes of that voting procedure to establish the actual position? i am of course convinced that what i say is correct, but if i am proved wrong then i am more than happy to accept that.
president of the council. - it's been a lively debate. i almost saw myself in the role of one of those members of parliament who demanded that the presidency now do this and that, pointing out that the council had neglected one and the other and the third. that is the way it should be, and i would urge parliament to continue to hold the council to the democratic ideals on which this parliament is built. and now i'm not going to continue with a "but". i will continue with an 'and' because i have always understood our common position to be that we must also have good neighbourliness, that we must also be able to solve common problems, that we must also have so much contact with each other that there is an opportunity for dialogue so that we can say the things that need to be said. i would say to mr posselt that if we are to move russia in the right direction in the field of human rights, it requires that we have a place where we have a dialogue with russia. we had this place a week ago in brussels, it doesn't matter whether it is in copenhagen or brussels. we had the dialogue, things were said, chris patten was a witness, mr poul nielson confirmed it today. the council has said exactly what it was going to say to russia, including on chechnya. as regards mr sakayev, who is now in a danish prison, i would like to say to mr dupuis that the sakayev case is being dealt with in full accordance with the rule of law, in accordance with the european rules on extradition, in accordance with the policy of combating terrorism that we have established. no political decision has been taken on sakayev. everything has gone according to plan. we have followed the constitution of democracy in every respect. and the same goes for the holding of the conference that created the conflict between denmark and russia. that conference was held because it is a democratic right to hold conferences. we cannot prevent this, and we are determined to do so, just as we have been determined in every other respect to uphold our democratic ideals. i fully agree, as mr poettering and many others have pointed out, that we must not sacrifice human rights on the altar of the fight against terrorism. of course not. i'm not going. and that is precisely what the dialogue with russia at the summit was about. we agree on the fight against terrorism, but we do not agree on the assessment of what has happened and is happening in chechnya, and that was said very, very clearly. we have succeeded in finding a solution to the kaliningrad problem which respects lithuania's sovereignty, which respects lithuania's right to join schengen. it is very important for enlargement that we have thus solved a problem in our own neighbourhood. moreover, with regard to the border agreement between russia and lithuania, which has not yet been ratified, i can say that during the negotiations at the summit the presidency made it clear to russia that we are assuming that the border agreement between russia and lithuania will now be signed. so nothing was forgotten. there was nothing to be ashamed of. everything went by the book of democracy. fortunately, the dialogue was maintained and the problems to be solved at the summit were resolved. but i would like to conclude by saying that it is important that parliament holds to its ideals and gets along with the council if there is a risk that we will not. finally got around to it. i do not think, however, that there is any reason to blame the council or the presidency for the way they have handled this very difficult summit which has just ended.
commission. – mr president, i shall start by saying very clearly that i can agree 100% with the statement just made by mr haarder. that is a good clear description of the reality. it is also a reminder of what the union needs to do and how it needs to do it. i have listened very carefully to all the contributions. i shall repeat what i have said before in parliament when discussing the problem of chechnya. the division of responsibility in the commission is quite meaningful. if we were not careful in defining the tasks and responsibilities of the commissioner responsible for humanitarian aid, we would blur the whole issue, especially when it comes to ensuring that access to delivering humanitarian aid is respected. that is why i am very careful to give a clearcut definition of my responsibilities as the commissioner responsible for humanitarian aid. if i were to fall into the temptation of engaging in political discussion on this issue, i would reduce the legitimacy and efficiency of my efforts to protect the access of humanitarian workers in places like chechnya. that is why i resist becoming involved in political manoeuvres or political projects, even if i might sympathise with them. it is for the commissioner on external relations to do that, and it is important, especially in this case, for us to be careful in our use of the instruments and commissioners available. if, with my responsibilities, i fell into the temptation of politicising, we would reduce the weight of our efforts and our attempts to insist on having access. i have, on the other hand, publicly criticised the russians on that issue, and do so quite frequently. i feed elements of this kind into every summit that we have with russia. unfortunately there has been no progress. there are the well-known issues of work permits for humanitarian workers, the ability to use the un vhf radio system which is important for the safety of people moving around there and the situation of refugees and internally displaced persons in the camps. all these issues are raised over and over again, and i would repeat my call for parliament to view the commissioner responsible for humanitarian aid as keeping to a relatively narrowly-defined remit, which is what i do. we have others who deal with the political side of the discussion. this is important not only as regards chechnya, but also for many other places. you will see the same approach when we talk about accessing victims of the israeli-palestinian conflict. being a political animal myself, i will not engage in a more substantive political discussion on the nature of the conflict and these other issues, however tempting that might be. mr paasilinna and a few others raised the question of the energy dialogue with russia, and especially cooperation in the area of natural gas. it is quite difficult to rush into a conclusion in an area where negotiating realities also have to reflect who engages commercially and who does not. the issue of the gas pipeline negotiation is a long-term one. there is a risk of contradictions between establishing the very long-term basis of those kinds of deals and the liberalisation of the gas market inside the union, to which we would give priority. against that background it is not that simple to accommodate the desire shown by the other side to have a very long-term, stable kind of contract as a basis. in any case, it would not be for us but for the companies and the market to establish such a contract, which is another reason why things are not that simple. furthermore there are other interesting strategic issues concerning the geopolitics of europe's energy supply in the years to come, including issues relating to natural gas, and it is no surprise that this is a complicated and demanding question. for tactical reasons i would urge some caution as to how members of parliament pursue this issue. it may be worthwhile and important to ensure that we have long-term cooperation and supplies from russia, but it is also important not to jump into negotiations that ultimately meant our not getting as good a deal as everyone thought we should. i would therefore advocate caution. finally, as regards mr oostlander's clear question about whether lithuania can join schengen after this agreement on kaliningrad, this has been one of the defining points in our approach to negotiations. this is why we find the solution in which there are no complications of that nature to be a good one. i will end by commending the cooperation between the council and the commission on this issue. this is one of the areas in which we have been quite successful. it is also something which has been duly recognised by lithuania and which has certainly demonstrated to the other candidate countries that we take their situation seriously.
madam president, there is a political dimension to this, which mr haarder mentioned. i had in mind the arrest of mr zakayev, the chechen representative. why has he been in prison for so long without any evidence being brought against him? this is a very worrying situation.
madam president, i should like to make it clear that i am not speaking on behalf of the eldr or in favour of this resolution. although i understand some of the concerns of the people who wrote this resolution, especially in the run-up to the election in pakistan, particularly that anyone standing for election should have to have a university degree, i do not agree with them. i agree that president musharraf took over in a coup. but let me make it clear for the record that this was a bloodless coup; political parties were not banned and no restrictions were placed on the media. yes, the legal framework order was reintroduced by the president, giving him powers to dismiss the parliament. but my understanding is that such powers exist in some eu countries. the french president, for instance, can dissolve parliament. i think we are looking at it too much from a european perspective. there have been allegations of corruption for centuries in pakistan. these elections are a step in the right direction. the fact that many who oppose president musharraf were elected surely speaks for itself. all parties in pakistan welcomed these elections. they have just elected a speaker. they are about to elect a prime minister. president musharraf actually met his commitment – as the council said – to hold these elections. let us now look forward instead of looking back.
president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the council has been asked to make a statement on the subject of social dialogue and the social tripartite summit. the council fully agrees with parliament's positive assessment of the importance of the european social dialogue and notes the good progress and encouraging results achieved in the informal summits held so far, despite the lack of a formal institutional framework for these meetings. close contacts based on mutual trust between public authorities and social partners at european, national and local levels are essential to enhance economic progress, prosperity and social integration in europe. in the declaration to the laeken european council, the parties stated that the standing committee on employment was not living up to its objective and that they wanted the committee to be replaced by a regular practice of holding social tripartite summits. the laeken and barcelona european councils concluded that such a social summit should be held before each spring summit. on 26 june this year the commission presented a proposal for a council decision establishing a social tripartite meeting, at the same time as the establishment of the standing committee on employment. the danish presidency gave the proposal high priority and insisted on its rapid adoption. however, during the initial work of the council it became apparent that the proposal raised a number of questions and legal and institutional problems which could not be clarified at the outset. the presidency will ensure that the council meeting on 3 december will take a position on how to proceed with the establishment of the social summit. if it were decided to proceed with a proposal for a formal decision, the details would not be possible to work out until the greek presidency. however, there is nothing to prevent the social summits from being held on an informal basis, without a decision, as has been the case so far. i hope that by this statement i have answered the question of what the council intends to do to establish the social summit. the question of consulting parliament has not yet been discussed by the council. once the council has decided on the details of the establishment of the social summit, there will be a basis for discussing how parliament can be involved. i would like to conclude by thanking parliament for raising the question of the social dialogue and the social tripartite summit. it is a good opportunity to discuss various aspects of this important question. i hope we will have a good discussion and i can assure you that the danish presidency will take the views expressed today very carefully into account in its further consideration.
commission. – mr president, as the president-in-office has already said, the commission has presented a proposal for this tripartite social summit for growth and employment by means of a council decision. this proposal was not isolated; it was within the framework of the need to change and modernise the european social dialogue. the aim of this proposal is to formalise the social dialogue summits held in stockholm in march 2001 and barcelona in march 2002. there is nothing to stop us from holding another informal meeting but, as the president-in-office has already said, it is very important to formalise this tripartite social summit, because the social partners agreed to it at the european summit at laeken. in any case, it will be a summit on growth and employment and it will replace the existing standing committee on employment. this forum will play a very important role as far as the implementation of the lisbon process is concerned, because it is the proper forum for the social partners to submit their proposals and their common agenda for the implementation of the lisbon strategy. the commission chose article 202 as the legal basis for the establishment of the tripartite social summit, since that was the legal basis for the standing committee on employment. although there is no provision for consultation of the european parliament under that article, the commission anticipated in its proposal that parliament would be consulted on the introduction of a tripartite social summit because it is a very sensitive and important issue. the prerogative as to whether to follow this suggestion or not rests with the council. the commission considers it of the utmost importance for the proposal to be rapidly adopted. as i have already said, this view is strongly endorsed by the european interprofessional social partners. it will ensure greater consistency between the different dialogues in which the social partners are involved. we held informal discussions in the council and a large majority of member states agreed on this issue. we believe we will overcome some of the problems – legal or not – which exist in some member states. i hope that this proposal will receive political support in the social affairs council on 3 december, which would allow it to be adopted at the general affairs and external relations council on 9 and 10 december, so that we can have a formal tripartite social summit during the greek presidency.
mr president, the eldr group fully endorses the argument that parliament has a right to be heard. in this particular week, however, i agree with mr ettl that it is appropriate to add something about the need for early involvement of the prospective new members in the tripartite social summit and the state of dialogue within those countries. the way in which trade unions and employers' organisations are organised varies considerably from one country to another, as does the manner and extent of collective bargaining. the development of employers' organisations is recent and sporadic and their activities are not always coordinated. where confederations of trade unions and employers' organisations exist, they vary in the extent to which they participate in their equivalents at european level. much therefore still needs to be done to develop the basis for social dialogue. i know that this issue is one that the commission has already begun to address through a variety of measures. its work is of major importance, since cooperation between the authorities, trade unions and employers' organisations is vital for economic and social development and thus for increased employment. as the danish presidency has recently said, tripartite cooperation and the social dialogue need to be strengthened if the new member states are to be able to participate in the work on equal terms with all the other member states. we must ensure that their voices, as well as our own, are properly heard.
mr president, the council's answers to our questions this afternoon have been clear, albeit not as full as many of us would have liked. we are well aware of the importance that denmark itself attaches to the work of the social partners in that 80% of danish workers are covered by collective agreements, but we are also aware that, as we have been hearing, a number of member states do not share this view. parliament is beginning to feel a sense of urgency about the need to give greater coherence to the work of the social partners. as has been said, this becomes crucial as we look towards enlargement. we would be interested to hear what involvement is foreseen, and at what point, for the social partners from the accession countries. we are also aware that there are many areas where such consultation is already being advocated, in the temporary agency work directive for example, and in a whole range of other areas relating to family-friendly work, quality of work, modernisation of work, organisation, active ageing policies and so on. so we are also hoping that this new approach will be able to look at the qualitative aspects of growth and employment, which are all too often forgotten, and the social repercussions as a whole. i would echo much of what mrs figueiredo has already said. in terms of funding, i find myself agreeing with mr pronk as to the source of funding and again this is going to have to take particular account of the enlargement process. as far as the role of the european parliament is concerned, we are beginning to find an increasing number of forms and areas of cooperation in which parliament is not fully involved. open coordination is one area where we are still getting no clear response as to where parliament actually fits into the whole process. we are also aware that certain governments do not want to see any extension of parliamentary powers in the convention process. some of them seem to be starting early in looking at issues such as the tripartite summit and parliament's involvement there. whilst we are looking at questions on the legal basis, this is not the only issue where the question of parliament's involvement arises. i am thinking of the coordination of social security for third country nationals. we look forward to the legal opinion and we look forward to greater involvement for parliament so that in future this will not be an issue.
mr president, my group is broadly supportive of mrs van den burg's efforts on her report. therefore, if she will excuse me, i shall concentrate on the lamfalussy procedure extension. this group is in favour of extending the lamfalussy procedure to banking and insurance. you have only to see the detail of the decisions being taken in basle on banks' capital adequacy to realise that it would be a nonsense to incorporate them into primary legislation. our american counterparts have already allowed the introduction of all the basle decisions by secondary legislation and to delay unnecessarily would put european banks at a competitive disadvantage. however, the council of ministers sometimes seems to have forgotten two important things. first, that parliament is fully committed to the democratic oversight of committees that establish implementing legislation. secondly, that the deal on applying lamfalussy committees to the securities market was a strictly temporary measure, which is why there are four-year 'sunset clauses' agreed by the council in both the prospectus and the market abuse directives. temporary means temporary. if our democratic role in monitoring is to be effective, article 202 of the treaty must reflect codecision over implementing committees, otherwise there will be always be a bias in this house against the delegation of powers that are necessary to deal with some extremely technical matters. for the sake of good governance and democratic oversight, the member states should commit themselves – whether in a council declaration or elsewhere – to a revision of article 202, which not only introduces equivalent powers for parliament and for the council but also ensures there is proper oversight by this house and by the council. then we can proceed to extend lamfalussy, again on a temporary basis.
mr president, i support the extension of the lamfalussy procedure in principle and i hope the interinstitutional difficulties can be resolved as soon as possible, so we can move forward and modernise decision-making structures in relation to banking, insurance and financial conglomerates. all the institutions need to work together to make this possible and i hope in particular that the council will be able to make a declaration signalling its willingness to review article 202 in 2004. we welcome significant parts of the van den burg report: its focus on improved enforcement, its call for supervisors to be given some discretion and to be allowed to exercise judgement rather than inflexibly and unthinkingly enforcing rules and ticking boxes. we also support the call for a regulatory cost-impact assessment by the commission and by parliament for its amendments. we agree that there is a need for more cooperation between national supervisors and enhanced links and dialogue with the us. on the issue of a single pan-european supervisor, we have some divergence of views within our group. we are united in our view that it would be wrong to set up a pan-european supervisor now or in the medium term. some of us in the british conservatives would rule it out in principle, others within the ppe-de group would like to keep the option open as a very long-term possibility. i oppose a pan-european supervisor because it would have too much power. the concentration of power in, for example, the uk's financial services authority, is very daunting in itself. a european equivalent would be a bureaucratic behemoth, unable to keep up with the dynamism and innovation of financial markets. a pan-european regulator would not have the expertise to deal with transactions and markets as diverse as, for example, the london derivatives market and the many thousands of small german savings and public banks. an effective regulator must be close to and must understand the markets it regulates. a single enforcer for financial services in the eu would have an impossible job, given the divergence of rules and legal systems across the eu. financial regulators play a key role in prosecution and criminal justice, and these are matters which should remain within the remit of the member states. there is so much other work to be done to create a single market in financial services and to really deliver those benefits that the commission report talked about only a few days ago. eu decision-makers should accept that a centralised solution is not always the best solution.
commission. – mr president, i am pleased and impressed that the european parliament has prepared its report on the commission's proposal on additives for use in animal nutrition so swiftly. this underlines the importance that parliament attaches to the sensitive issue of animal nutrition in relation to human and animal health. i would like in particular to thank and congratulate mrs keppelhoff-wiechert for her hard work on this report. this issue is also a high priority for the danish presidency of the council. i hope, therefore, that we can make rapid progress to show the outside world how important the eu considers human and animal health issues to be. this proposal represents a major streamlining of the current rules on safety evaluation and marketing authorisations for feed additives. this overhaul is both timely and welcome. the current legislation has been revised over one hundred times. the new rules will be much simpler and clearer. we will have a clear and transparent authorisation procedure. the european food safety authority will be the first port of call and will be in charge of evaluating all feed additives. in future, the validity of authorisations will be limited to ten years. the new system also includes an in-built review and re-evaluation process so as to allow new scientific information to be taken into account. companies will be required to demonstrate the positive effect on the animal and the absence of any risk to human or animal health or the environment when applying for authorisation or re-authorisation of a feed additive. wherever required for the sake of public health, the european food safety authority will propose to the commission maximum residue limits to be laid down in legislation. at present, only four antibiotics are authorised for use in animal feed as growth promoters. the eu has already phased out the use in feedingstuffs of all antibiotics that are used in both human and veterinary medicine, in order to avoid cross-resistance. the four antibiotics in question are not used for any human antibiotic drugs. the commission announced its intention to phase out these remaining antibiotics in feedingstuffs in the white paper on food safety. this reflected scientific advice that the use of antibiotics as growth promoters is undesirable for human and animal health, owing to concerns about increased resistance of diseases to treatment with antibiotics. the scientific steering committee has also recommended the progressive replacement of the remaining four antibiotics by non-antimicrobial alternative products. the commission proposes to withdraw the authorisations for these four antibiotics on 1 january 2006. with regard to coccidiostats – substances used to prevent coccidia infections – the proposal contains stricter rules for their authorisation and placing on the market. the reason for this is that hygiene precautions and improved husbandry practices are not sufficient to keep poultry free from such diseases. however, in order to ensure the safety of these substances, i propose that current authorisations be reviewed within four years of the entry into force of the regulation. these are some of the major issues that parliament has considered. i hope and expect that we will be able to reach constructive solutions. i will address the various amendments proposed by parliament at the end of this debate.
mr president, i would like to thank mrs keppelhoff-wiechert for her very practical report. we need to be sure of how we are going to deal with these additives, especially in poultry. you do not find out that a chicken contains coccidiostats until it is dead and by then it is too late. the welfare problems of actually handling chicken also have to be considered. we need to be able to sort out this problem and look at it very practically. we are very concerned in europe that consumers should be protected, and rightly so, but what is the commission going to do to protect european consumers from imports of poultry that have probably been fed growth promoters? millions of chickens are imported from china and thailand. the problem is that the poultry meat cannot be tested for growth promoters or, if it is, some time may have elapsed and the meat can no longer be tested for it. it will be impossible to determine whether growth promoters have been fed to the chickens, and so chicken producers in europe will be at a complete economic disadvantage. this will not protect consumers in europe, because the meat will still be imported. we will find that european consumers are consuming meat from poultry produced in china and thailand containing substances banned in europe. i would like to ask commissioner byrne how he is going to stop this problem arising.
mr president, i welcome this directive and mr nisticò's elegant improvement of its direction. we have had our arguments – indeed, we have had some today – but not about this. herbal remedies are bought and trusted by millions and by many of us here. their use goes back over millennia. this directive allows the basic registration of traditional remedies. it should be generous in its interpretation of how and where this traditional use established the safety requirements that are necessary. equally, the use of these products in combination with others, including drugs, requires scrupulous attention to the possible side-effects where they may occur. this basic safety requirement is a modest proposal indeed. professional herbal practice associations and consumer groups support it across europe. all it requires is that we know about quality and content. the better the product, the more the maker should welcome this directive. what is in it? what will it do for me? these are questions asked by consumers, which you would indeed ask of anything you took – even a wine gum. the fact is that we are here now facing a very simple process and yet there are petitions, paranoid talk of plots and industrial lobbies mimicking consumer concerns. what do they fear? the european medical control agency has estimated that in the uk, for example, out of 207 notified substances, all but 2 or 3 would sail through the process of registration without the expensive proof required for chemicals. i would ask this industrial lobby, which has embarrassed many herbalists, are your own products so safe and legal? or could they too be adulterated, irradiated or substituted? how many tests have been conducted on side-effects? how many off-the-shelf shops offer expert advice? when the consumers' association in britain tested this out on a random sample of 30, only 5 were able to offer knowledge in terms of the recommendations they made. this is an opportunity to blend tradition and the modern rediscovery of ancient skills. it gives the consumer a wider choice and offers expansion for the quality producer. let us welcome it.
mr president, any medicine can be dangerous. if we need any reminder of that, we need only look at the thousands who die each year from taking authorised prescription medicines. by comparison, the risks posed by traditional herbal remedies are minimal. so let us keep a sense of proportion and make sure we do not throw the baby out with the bath water. nobody should object to rules intended to safeguard health and to ensure that the consumer can make informed decisions. however, excessively restrictive application of regulations may threaten the future of some producers and specialist suppliers such as health food shops, possibly encouraging consumers to buy from unregulated internet suppliers. i therefore ask the commission to be careful in its application of these regulations and to take account of these genuine concerns. in particular, i ask the house that if a herbal medicine has been used anywhere in the world for more than 30 years and there was clear evidence that its normal use is safe, then we should not deny it to the people we represent. we must not be so arrogant as to imply that europe has nothing to learn from others.
mr president, the more we look into the subject of traditional herbal medicines the more i am convinced that there is urgent need for action. like millions of other eu citizens, i am a user of herbal medicinal products. i want a guarantee that when i go into my local health food shop the echinacea or ginseng i buy is of a high quality and standard. sadly, in the uk at the moment you cannot guarantee that this will be the case. in front of me i have four certificates of analysis and four different types of echinacea products. the first has on its label echinacea root. however, the others simply are not good enough. one failed to comply because of excessive amounts of acid insoluble ash in the product. another was apparently free of echinacea root altogether, and the last had not been solely manufactured from echinacea root powder as claimed on the label. this means that the next time i go and buy my echinacea, i have a 25% chance of actually purchasing what i want. this lottery has to end. these inferior products on the market are cheating consumers and bringing herbal medicines into disrepute. however, we also require a flexible approach, especially on herbal nutrient combinations, traditional herbal medicines from outside the eu and non-herbal traditional medicines. herbal nutrient combinations for products are not classified as medicines. currently they may normally be legally sold as foods and that position would not change. where these combination products are classified as medicines, currently they are not covered by the present uk regime for unlicensed herbal medicines and therefore require a marketing authorisation. the eu proposal would offer greater flexibility than what is offered at the moment in the uk because the directive would permit the inclusion of nutrients which were non-active. traditional medicines from outside the eu, such as chinese medicines, will be able to satisfy the 50 year requirement. however, i agree with those in the herbal sector who would like greater flexibility in taking account of evidence from outside the eu. the key point is that the quality and relevance of evidence of traditional use is more important than geographical origin. this directive deserves to be considered in the light of all the facts, in the interest of public health, consumer confidence and expanded choice on the market.
mr president, it seems that a guiding ethos of this establishment is the precautionary principle, which aims to keep risks as low as reasonably practical. however, british courts suggest that this requires weighing costs against the measures necessary to eliminate the risk. if we are to believe the rapporteur, the risks from uncontrolled use of herbal medicines are considerable. but i have looked at just one of his claims: that is that in the us products based on ephedrine have accounted for more than 1 200 cases of toxic effects, including 70 deaths. however, the dietary supplement industry estimates that as many as two billion doses of this product are consumed each year in the united states. as to mr nisticò's claims, the us general accounting office has examined the fda data which he uses. to reach its conclusions the fda used a combination of scientific evidence on the effects of ephedrine and a set of adverse event reports (aers). according to the gao the fda relied upon 'poorly-documented aers and weak information'. furthermore, it did not perform a causal analysis to determine whether ephedrine products caused or contributed to the adverse effects. it did not document which aers were serious and did not establish criteria to determine which events were serious. it did not perform any reliable assessment of its analysis. these are just brief extracts from an 83-page report. i have similar reports on other risks that mr nisticò cites. the risks have been seriously overstated on the basis of scandalously poor evidence. there is hardly a measurable risk from the use of herbal medicines and it is, in any event, far less than that arising from conventional medicines. given the minimal risk, the cost of this measure clearly outweighs the benefit. there is no justification for it. i declare an interest. i use herbal medicines every day of the year.
commission. – mr president, allow me to comment briefly on some of the speeches and amendments. a full listing of the commission's position on each of the amendments is provided in writing to parliament. firstly, on the extension of the scope of the simplified procedure. let me underline that i am grateful for your support to limit, in principle, the new simplified procedure to traditional herbal medicines. it is crucial that we gain sound experience with this new procedure before we can plan any possible extension. at the same time, i understand the request from the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy to slightly extend the scope of the procedure to those herbal medicines, which contain additional non-herbal ingredients. in principle, the commission could support such additives as vitamins and minerals. however, we have to be prudent and exclude certain substances such as biological ingredients, which involve particular risks. for such substances we must insist on getting the standard scientific data. many speakers have mentioned the minimum time of use. as a general rule, 30 years of traditional use in total and 15 years within the community are the minimum to ensure safety and efficacy of the products. however, there will be exceptions. it may be that a product has been used outside the eu for thousands of years, but has been available within the community for only 10 years or less. the committee on the environment proposed to shorten the minimum usage time within the community from 15 to 10 years. the commission is ready to lay down specific rules for such exceptions. from a european perspective, however, it is preferable to provide a european solution. where a product does not fulfil the general criteria of 30 and 15 years, we could empower the new committee to look into this product and to assess if the available information is sufficient. this way of establishing flexibility would have the advantage of meeting the double objectives to ensure the protection of public health while at the same time facilitating the free movement of these medicines within the eu. the commission’s proposal already gives the new committee considerable powers. the committee on the environment wants to go even further and replace the committee which generally deals with medicines for human use (cpmp) with the new 'herbal committee'. in principle, the commission could support part of the proposed extension. we agree that the 'herbal committee' should deal with deciding mutually recognised procedures where divergent national decisions on herbal medicines are involved.
the commission. mr president, i would like to thank and particularly congratulate mrs van den burg on her excellent report and her positive contribution to the commission's proposal on the working conditions of temporary agency workers. it is well known that it was not an easy process, it had considerable political and technical difficulties and i really want to thank her very much, because i believe that parliament, with the work that has been done, will contribute to the final promotion of this important directive. since the early 1980s, temporary agency work has become an important part of the european labour market as firms seek greater flexibility in managing employment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in many countries we have seen the development of giant real employment agencies, in some cases with hundreds or even thousands of workers, and we can now consider this way of intervening in the labour market to be positive, creating many times jobs, in any case it is a particularly important tool for those who are entering the labour market for the first time. the development of temporary agency work is firmly on the agenda of social and economic reforms, which was reinforced by the barcelona summit. in many countries, however, the picture of temporary employment is negative. and it is particularly negative when there is no perfect combination of flexibility and quality of work. this is the gap that exists in certain labour markets and which this directive is intended to fill or prevent in the future. the aim is to create a broad and flexible framework based on the fundamental rights of workers, which must in any case be guaranteed if we are to guarantee the quality of work. the commission put forward this proposal after the breakdown of the partners' talks in may 2001. i think it is extremely important that the council and parliament succeed in adopting this directive, which is a very important political signal that the european institutions are prepared to take up their responsibilities and to proceed even in cases where agreement between the social partners is not possible.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. – mr president, i find myself with the unexpected privilege this evening of speaking second in this debate. i speak on behalf of mr gargani, the chairman of the committee on legal affairs, in whose name our opinion stands. that is due to the chivalry of my colleague, mr koukiadis, who is here tonight and who is the original draftsman of the opinion. he tried in vain to persuade our committee to support the thrust of the commission proposals. by a convincing majority the committee on legal affairs voted in a series of sensible modifications that would have blunted some of the harm that this directive, if it is not changed, is going to do to the economy and employment throughout the european union. i thank mr koukiadis for doing the decent thing and laying down his report. as the second speaker, i want to pay tribute to mrs van den burg. i have not had the pleasure of working with her before. she has worked in a very open-handed and friendly way. as she said, she has taken advice from a lot of people. unfortunately, she has not listened to that advice. i am pleased that a number of other groups have supported the thrust of our amendments and i thank members of my own political family for going along with some of our ideas. the problem is that, as amended, the proposal from the committee on employment and social affairs does not achieve the sort of flexibility that its advocates, the commission and the rapporteur, were claiming. it has become more intrusive – there is more regulation. my concern about this report is that it fails to accept that high-quality temporary work, delivered by a caring and well-run agency, is not just a second best for employment. i wish to conclude by thanking the committee on employment for accepting one of my amendments which states: 'member states shall transpose these provisions in a manner consistent with promoting job creation and making temporary agency work more attractive, recognising the different circumstances pertaining to their own territory'. if you had achieved that, i would have been delighted to support the directive.
mr president, i would like to add my congratulations to the rapporteur, mrs van den burg, and members of other groups who have helped steer us towards what hopefully will be a successful vote tomorrow. we have heard that provision varies from member state to member state in terms of the protection afforded to temporary agency workers. that is indeed the case and that justifies the laying down of a basic framework of protection for temporary workers throughout the european union, but i would also underline that it will include the accession countries. the numbers of such workers are increasing in those countries, but as far as i am aware they have no existing protection for temporary agency workers. my second point is that tonight we are pursuing a strategy which has been under way since 1997, when we adopted the employment strategy at european union level. in the adaptability pillar of that strategy, to which all member states have signed up, we agreed to strike a balance between flexibility for companies, of all shapes and sizes, and a degree of security for the workers working within, and moving between, those enterprises. we have already dealt with that in relation to the earlier proposals on part-time work and on fixed-term contract working. we were warned at the time of the part-working directive that it would cost hundreds of thousands of part-time jobs, particularly for women workers within the european union. we now have the evidence and the opposite is the case, because part-time work has come to be seen as a positive option. what we are working on now will mean that temporary agency work will also become a positive option in the future. we are often told that it is already a positive option, and that many people want to be temporary agency workers. only 10% of the 61,000 temporary agency workers in my own region say that they are temporary agency workers by choice. we can increase that percentage quite significantly if we get it right and bring this proposal to a successful conclusion. we should pursue that balance between flexibility and security. mr harbour says we have not done it yet but i would say to him that this is the first stage. this is the opening gambit and not the end game. this is a codecision dossier. we have a long way to go, through common position, through second reading and no doubt into conciliation. we can continue to pursue that balance between flexibility and security. in my own group, two issues have been of great importance at this first reading stage. one is 'day one comparability'. i therefore hope that amendment no 42 will be carried tomorrow. the second is the comparator. to whom is the temporary agency worker compared in terms of pay and basic employment conditions? none of the potential solutions we currently have on paper are that elegant, but they get us through first reading and i am sure we will be getting back to that at the common position and second reading stages.
mr president, i do not believe the commission has done enough to address the problems in different member states. it is not just a problem for the uk, it is a problem for denmark, sweden, the netherlands and various other member states. what we have to do is carry out a proper comprehensive impact assessment. we wish to return the directive to the commission for them to do that assessment. i am in favour of temporary workers receiving protection but believe that it is probably best left to member states, rather than having the 'fit-all' directive which we have in front of us today. the proposal in its current form will reduce flexibility, reduce opportunities for temporary workers and lead to more bureaucracy. we have, however, suggested various amendments in case the proposal is not rejected outright. to make it more workable for member states we would firstly like to exclude pay and other financial benefits from the directive's scope altogether. i do not believe it should be an eu competence in any case. the second major amendment is to give an exemption for 12 months for temporary workers placed in user companies. that is only for pay and financial benefits, not for health and safety. most temporary workers in the uk and some other member states are covered on health and safety grounds. another key amendment is to make sure the user company or the agency can be comparative, to give member states that choice. another area of concern is the temporary-to-permanent contract fee. agencies should get some sort of recompense if the temporary worker is taken on by the user company. in my view, these amendments will make the directive far more workable and more acceptable to temporary workers, agencies and user companies.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur most sincerely for her hard work and willingness to reach an agreement, difficult though that path has been and will be. my group will not be supporting the amendments which oppose this directive, but will generally support the rapporteur. it is quite true that there are many reputable agencies which pay well, which engage in training their staff and which provide very good terms and conditions. these agencies are generally already used to working within a regulated framework. this directive possibly changes part of the regulation. we have been told by certain major agencies, some of the largest operating in the european union, that they do not oppose a regulation, which is not what the confederation of british industry and others would have us believe. but some of the difficulties raised we found difficult to credit. some of the agencies have told us that they cannot compare the work done by their staff with that of the end-user company's staff as their agency staff do unique work which is highly skilled and is on a project basis. so, i found myself wondering on what basis, then, is the pay rate set at which the agency charges the end-user company? what percentage of that income is then paid to the worker? they cannot be working in a vacuum. internal pay rates, some have told us, are confidential. well, how then do reputable companies perform transparent audits on equal pay for equal work? i believe that good agencies have nothing to fear from this directive. we would like to think that those who should be worrying are the disreputable ones who exploit the poorly-skilled, or people in areas of high unemployment who have little choice as to who they work for and under which conditions. these include cleaning agencies who employ shifts of temporary night workers and then pay them at training rates for longer than necessary, and companies who effectively employ long-term agency workers at lower rates of pay than permanent staff, and who replace paid staff who leave with agency workers because they can lay them off much more easily and with poorer conditions. for some strange reason, those agencies have not lobbied us. we need to ensure that we protect the rights of workers who do not have choices and whose agents know that they can exploit that weakness.
mr president, unlike some colleagues, i do not believe that this house should seek a delay in fulfilling its responsibilities in relation to temporary agency workers. if we are to promote flexible labour markets then we must ensure that those working within them are not put at a disadvantage. we cannot risk temporary work being used as a way of bypassing normal employment laws rather than, as it should be, a properly regulated means of satisfying employers' short-term needs. it is for this reason that we should not emasculate the proposal by removing pay from the scope of the directive or applying it only to workers in assignments of more than 12 months. that said, i am not convinced that we have yet struck quite the right balance between flexibility and protection. there are real difficulties in implementing a fixed-term worker comparative for pay in the case of assignments of a short duration. accordingly, i urge colleagues to support amendments nos 72 and 74 which should overcome this problem. similarly, i hope for a positive vote on amendments nos 71 and 73 which guard against any adverse effects the directives might have in both the shorter and longer terms. finally, my special thanks go to the rapporteur for the inclusive manner in which she has handled a very difficult dossier and my personal good wishes to her for the outcome of the vote tomorrow.
mr president, all of us want to see less poverty and more social justice. more jobs can provide both. more employment laws like the atypical workers' directive will secure neither. the commission is trying to impose a straitjacket on something that cannot and does not need to be standardised. my colleague, mr pronk, said a moment ago that he would like everyone to recognise that member states organise temporary work in different ways. that is absolutely right. i too would like everyone to recognise that, and we want member states to be able to continue to organise in different ways. the very adjective 'atypical' in the name of this directive says it all. earlier in this debate ms attwooll said that amendment no 71, for example, would guard against any adverse effects. that is wishful thinking. this amendment offers some help, but the improvements are marginal and all our temporary workers, recruitment agencies and client companies will be saying the same thing – that we are still left with a directive that could cost the uk alone 160 000 jobs. i will address my final remarks to the commissioner, even though she will probably never speak to me again. last week the press reported her as saying that the eu had created a net 12 million jobs over the last six years and that the eu' s rigid labour market was not the main problem facing europe's economy. it is very easy to say that there is no problem or that, if there is, then it is someone else's problem. it is a problem for all of us, but you are, with respect, making it worse. you are proposing the atypical workers' directive which, instead of promoting job flexibility, will help to kill it off. this directive has little to do with protecting the rights of temporary workers, certainly in the uk where happily they already enjoy such protection. it is notionally about protecting the jobs of permanent workers by making it more difficult for companies to employ temporary staff. the financial times yesterday reported on the labour market problems in germany, describing how reform is being resisted and vested interests are being protected, all under the guise of promoting social justice. the commission should have the guts to strip away this pretence and withdraw this directive. to encourage it to do so, the uk conservative delegation will vote against this report.
mr president, ms attwooll said that the rapporteur had been inclusive in carrying out this report. i would like to go further and say that strenuous efforts were made to understand the situation in some of the highest concentrations of agency workers anywhere in the european union. for example, in my own region of london we have cleaners, nurses, it specialists and now, crucially, manufacturing workers, many of whom mr harbour would have been referring to earlier. the situation now is a classic contrast between flexibility and protection. there is a need to understand the situation in countries where there is a less-developed temporary agency worker regulation. that is why i welcome amendments like amendment no 71, through the efforts of the rapporteurs and others to understand that situation. we are not at extremes in this area. we are in a situation where there is evidence that those vulnerable workers looking to us for protection require that protection and good agency employers require growth and flexibility. it is a balance which should be struck. we want to find that balance. as mr hughes said, we are at the beginning of that process. let us shape a directive that strikes that vital balance.
mr president, firstly i too would like to wish mrs damião a speedy recovery and sincerely congratulate her for an excellent report. it will add to the encouragement which the biotechnology sector needs in order to realise its potential in my scottish constituency and throughout europe. the thrust of this report is fully in line with the lisbon summit objectives and continues the forward-looking attitude consistently demonstrated by parliament. it should also serve to bolster the commission's new-found courage as regards biotechnology and the life sciences. but how dreadful the contrast with the council of ministers who yet again this week demonstrated their abject failure to follow through on the goals they set at lisbon. the grossly mistitled 'competitiveness council' could not reach consensus about the proper jurisdiction for community patent disputes. what hope is there of achieving europe's potential in this area when the council is at least one year behind the deadline it set itself for agreement on this vital matter? without a cost-efficient means of patenting intellectual property rights, what incentive is there for our scientists? this is only one example of the chronic foot-dragging we see endlessly in the council and by individual member states. moratoria, legal uncertainty, backtracking and dithering over ethical guidelines, transposition delays, lack of support for those going about their legal business with field trials, elaborate red tape for labelling and traceability. mrs damião, thank you for giving us hope that there is real hope in europe for biotechnology and the life sciences.
mr president, you do not have to be an implacable opponent of gmos – and i am not – to challenge the undiluted advocacy of them in this report. many liberal democrats will be challenging the report in the vote tomorrow. we want to see a reduction in the use of pesticides and herbicides. we want to see insects and wild plants flourish in our countryside. we want sustainable agriculture in developing nations. but we need to know that the proposed solution is not the cause of even greater problems. we hear claims from the manufacturers, intent as they are with stuffing their pockets with gold and making sure that farmers across the globe are locked into their supply chain. but where is the scientific evidence about the medium- and long-term effects of gm crops upon biodiversity? who is going to compensate organic producers whose crops become contaminated and lose their value? we need answers to these questions before we open the floodgates. the jury is still out regarding gm crops and, given the irreversible nature of these decisions, there is no sound basis for making claims that biotechnology will be the answer to all our problems.
mr president, i speak on behalf of a constituent of mine, dr lesley mcculloch, a british academic, who is currently held in police detention in indonesia along with a us national, joy lee sadler. dr mcculloch was detained on 10 september at a military checkpoint in aceh, indonesia, held for six days, and allegedly physically and sexually assaulted. subsequently she was transferred to police custody and on 16 september charged with misusing a tourist visa by conducting research. the military are unhappy with her work on corrupt military business practices. she has had two consular visits – on 17 and 25 september – and some conditions have improved. however, both women are in poor health. one is hiv positive. they may be sent to a military hospital. their lives may be in danger. a date has not yet been set for trial but over two months have elapsed. i urge you to write to the indonesian president and the authorities expressing our deep concern, asking that these women be treated fairly and any charges dealt with quickly.
the commission madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the european investment bank, i thank the european parliament for taking the initiative once again to hold a debate on the eib's activities. i congratulate the rapporteur, mrs van den burg, on her very interesting and comprehensive report, which highlights the role of the eib as the main long-term community financier in key sectors of the european union, in the candidate countries and in other partner countries. i should like to focus briefly on the following four points: cooperation between the eib and the commission; eib activities in partner countries; eib activities in the candidate countries; tripartite agreement between the eib, the court of auditors and the commission. first point: the eib is a public policy-driven bank. its mission, as president maystadt himself has emphasised, is to contribute to the political objectives of the european union in collaboration with the commission. in this context, the commission welcomes the growing cooperation with the bank in a number of priority areas, such as regional development and the environment, as well as in areas linked to the 'innovation 2000' initiative, such as research and development, the audiovisual sector and information. the commission is supporting the eib group in strengthening its activities for small and medium-sized enterprises. it shares the view of the european parliament that the bank should adopt the commission's definition of small and medium-sized enterprises. the commission takes note of the parliament's wish to assess the impact on small and medium-sized enterprises of the 'multiannual programme for enterprise and entrepreneurship 2001-2005', the so-called map. in this respect, the commission will prepare an interim report in 2003 on the state of play of the map, including its impact on small and medium-sized enterprises, as required by the council decision on the map. in addition, as always required in the same decision, the commission will present an external evaluation report to the council and parliament by the end of december 2004. second point: the eib has stepped up its lending activities in the partner countries in close cooperation with the commission. in this context, the mediterranean investment and partnership facility, launched in barcelona last october, will be an important initiative to increase economic development in the countries of the southern neighbourhood. the commission has given considerable support to this initiative, committing eur 255 million from the community budget over the next four years. the eib is also preparing, in cooperation with the commission, the implementation of the new investment fund for the acp countries provided for in the cotonou agreement. as regards the balkans, the commission and the bank are currently examining the possibility of extending to the latter a mandate for intervention in kosovo. third point: as regards the eib's activities in the candidate countries, the commission shares the parliament's view that the bank's activities in these countries should be given the utmost priority. we believe that the financing needs are substantial and that the eib and the ebrd should work closely together to contribute to the growth of the new member states of the european union. with regard to the integration of the acceding countries into the structure of the eib, the commission notes with satisfaction that the member states have finally reached agreement on the treaty amendments relating to the governance of the eib and its subscribed capital following accession; this will allow, once the agreement of the candidate countries has been obtained, the integration of the new member states into the structure of the eib immediately after accession. finally, the fourth and final point: a very brief comment on the tripartite agreement between the eib, the court of auditors and the commission. the commission considers that the basic principles of the tripartite agreement reflect a fair balance between the rights of the court of auditors and the eib and that these principles should not be modified. as regards the community budget, the court, by virtue of the tripartite agreement, has access to a wide range of information on the bank's operations under the mandates and is entitled to obtain additional information whenever it wishes. the commission welcomes the parliament's initiative to invite the parties concerned to review the agreement, which will certainly provide an opportunity to update some technical and administrative aspects in the light of the changes that have taken place.
madam president, i warmly welcome this report. my group has submitted a small number of amendments which aim to highlight the importance of greater transparency and environmental commitment in the work of the eib and also, in particular, to ensure that the eib applies the highest ethical standards possible in project financing, including withdrawal from any project carried out in breach of national legislation or where corrupt enterprises are involved. in connection with that last point, i am sure mr maystadt is aware of the ongoing court case in lesotho, where european companies are on trial for allegedly paying bribes to win contracts in the lesotho highlands water project, a project part-funded by the eib. since corrupt practices in the award of contracts for development projects represents a major threat to the provision of good governance, would you agree, mr maystadt, that it is crucial that the eib examine its due diligence procedures, with respect not only to the lesotho project, but also to all future projects, and will you report back to parliament on its findings? a brief question to the commission: will the commission honour the commitment made several years ago to provide the necessary financial support to the lesotho government, so as to enable it to pursue these court cases to their conclusion and thereby guarantee good governance?
mr president, i am speaking today on behalf of mr evans, who is the shadow rapporteur for the ppe-de group. he very much regrets that he cannot be here today. we have presented some amendments to these reports, with the general aim that they should provide more encouragement for free trade. in the last few years, the european union has rightly focused on the need for greater competition and consumer choice and has often used its powers to great and beneficial effect. increased free trade and the reduction of unfair subsidies have been a most positive result. just as policies of this kind produced handsome rewards for businesses and consumers when my country, under a conservative government, rediscovered and pioneered these practices in the 1980s, they are now doing the same in the rest of the european union. encouraging greater competition is an enormous task. for the first three decades after the second world war, state aid and protectionism were less controversial. it is still difficult to combat these traditional ideas and entrenched interests, especially in a climate where the opponents of free trade often have the catchier slogans. we are most fortunate that we have, in commissioner monti, someone who is convinced that the opening of markets and the freeing of trade is in everyone's interest. we are most grateful to him for his persistent and hard work in combating anything, be it cartels or subsidies, that impedes the operation of a fair market. the report by mr herzog concerns the newly-introduced scoreboard for state aid. this is a most useful tool. we fully support its introduction and are anxious that it should be used enthusiastically. it is most encouraging to note that it points to a decline in state aid, although we would like to see a further decrease. the disparities between countries show that some member states provide up to three times as much state aid as others. it is our hope that the scoreboard will serve as an encouragement to member states to continue and accelerate their reforms and that the scoreboard will also assist the reforms of the new member states after their accession in 2004. mr lipietz's report focuses on general competition policy and we are pleased to see that it reflects many of our concerns. in particular, the report highlights the lack of progress in the liberalisation of the gas and electricity markets and urges action in the opening up of european markets in energy, transport and postal services. the report rightly congratulates commissioner monti and his staff on their approach. we in this parliament should urge him further along the path he has chosen to take. i would like to conclude by commending the continuation of the european union's policies in these areas to parliament. i hope parliament will support our amendments and i look forward to even greater progress in the years to come.
mr president, i would like to ask the movers of amendments nos 31 and 37 to clarify whether they intend that this should ban the therapeutic cloning of human embryos.
in writing. - the british labour delegation acknowledges the concerns of the british government with regard to this directive. it is important to strike a balance between protecting temporary workers and reducing the burdens that might deter companies from hiring them, particularly for short-term assignments. temporary employment agencies make a significant contribution to the uk labour market and should therefore not be penalised. the increase in administrative burdens could increase costs, which could be passed on to user companies or lead to the closure of companies and the loss of jobs. the british labour party therefore voted against amendment no 42 calling for the six-week derogation in the commission's original proposal to be abolished. they consider it important that this minimum derogation of six weeks should be retained in the proposal. the british labour party voted for amendment no 73 in order to support the establishment of comprehensive and effective impact assessments. this can help smes. the british labour party has tabled and supported amendment no 71 calling for an additional transitional period for the united kingdom. it is therefore necessary to grant the united kingdom and ireland an additional period of three years, or five years in total, to implement the directive. the british labour party supported this report at first reading but with the reservations very clearly expressed here.
mr president, this is without doubt a global disaster affecting all european coastlines and europe must pool all its resources to combat it. that is why i am dismayed by the reports that the commissioner is suggesting gibraltar was in some way responsible because it failed to inspect the ship. i would like to point out to the commissioner that the prestige has only called in at gibraltar once in the last five years and then it did not even enter the port, it refuelled outside. in that period it has also put in at several other ports, including algeciras, las palmas, dunkirk, cork, rotterdam and kalamata. we have a saying in glasgow: if you live in a glasshouse you do not have sex with your gardener! after the braer sank off the coast of scotland in 1992, neil kinnock put forward legislation on double-hull vessels. as the commissioner rightly pointed out, that was deferred by the council until 2015. however, we need new legislation now to close up the loopholes.
mr president, i may not look like mr schulz but i am deputising for him. the socialist group is deeply concerned by the continuing civil war that has claimed around two million casualties over the last 19 years. of course we welcome the signing on 15 october of the peace agreement between the government in sudan and the spla. we will be looking very closely at whether the government's pledge to respect human rights and the rule of law is met and whether there are moves towards democratisation that will result in the establishment of a democratically elected executive and legislature. we ask the commission to provide us with a report on the possible involvement of european oil companies in abuses committed against local communities in the oil- producing areas. we certainly do not support the idea that the acp-eu parliamentary assembly should meet in sudan next year. it may be possible in the future but we will have to see how things develop in sudan. we need a dialogue between sudan and the european union, but before we resume normal relations we would want to see progress towards ending terrorism and support for terrorist groups, religious tolerance, human rights and of course an end to the civil war.
mr president, on 17 october this year 40 000 members of the armed forces launched operation clean heart in bangladesh. it resulted in house-to-house raids and searches aimed specifically at the awami league's voters, party workers, the hindu community and members of opposition political parties. thousands were arrested and held in incommunicado detention. 25 people are alleged to have died after being tortured while in detention. the claim that these deaths were the results of heart attacks is frankly incredible. we call upon the government of bangladesh to hold an independent inquiry into who is responsible for this, to release members of parliament and opposition political leaders and to establish a bangladesh national human rights committee. we would ask the commission to liaise with the government of bangladesh under the cooperation agreement to ensure that violations stop and that human rights are protected, and request that the european parliament be kept informed.
mr president, i disagree with mr markov. iran is a complex society. there is evidence of some progress towards an islamic society that is in tune with the modern world. president khatami and his reformist allies are a symbol of that modernisation. however, president khatami is being constantly frustrated by the more fundamentalist elements of iranian society. that is why the eu is currently engaged in negotiating a trade and cooperation agreement with iran. this is not currently in doubt, though it must be clear to the iranian authorities that at the same time we will expect and require an agreement on human rights. the death sentence on dr hashem aghajari for apostasy on the basis of some obscure theological dispute is incomprehensible to the west. we welcome president khatami's intervention, the action of lecturers and students in protesting and dr aghajari's own appeal for calm. we welcome the threat of resignation by president khatami, the cabinet and dozens of mps, should the council of guardians veto legislation that is being proposed to limit its current absolute power. however, we have to make it clear to the government of iran that we will be watching the outcome of this and similar cases with close interest, in terms of our future relations with that country.
mr president, did the conference of presidents take a decision regarding the exclusion of the two zimbabwean diplomats who are on our banned list? i understand that the conference of presidents was to decide whether or not they should be banned from the building. i should like to know what was their decision.
mr president, i should like to make a brief statement on an incident which occurred this morning at our group meeting. this particular group invited mrs andreassen to come and give evidence to us on a matter of technical information about the accounting systems. we found much to our surprise that when we arrived, she had been gagged by the commission and was not allowed to give any information to either the assembled parliamentarians or the press present. what a clear majority of our political group would like to ask is whether the commission can justify under what grounds mrs andreassen was gagged from giving us technical information about a substantive item which we need to know about. perhaps more importantly, how is it that the framework agreement between the commission and the parliament does not now allow us as parliamentarians to talk to people about technical matters and how far, therefore, does the commission reach into our institution? that is for our bureau to decide and we would like to have clarity on that issue.
- this is a matter for the conference of presidents, not the bureau. however, mrs schreyer will speak later and if you want her to speak then, she can - that is for her to decide.
- you have the honour of attending the conference of presidents, and this is a matter that concerns the conference of presidents. you can write to the president. i'm sure you're able to pick up your phone and talk to her. approval of the minutes of the previous sitting - composition of parliament - verification of credentials - depositing of documents - transfer of appropriations - order of business - legislative and work programme for 2003 (depositing of motions for resolutions): see minutes.
- the next item is the debate on the annual report of the court of auditors for 2001.
mr president, i too welcome the court of auditors' report but i wonder about the statement just made by mr fabra vallés. it has a very interesting spin on the words you have actually written within your report. you mention in your statement a lack of balance in what is being said in the public arena at the moment and i agree with this. i would have liked to equal that balance out from the 300 commission spin-doctors that have been saying things about marta andreassen recently and point members of parliament's attention to the fact that she was gagged by that very same commission this morning. but what did you write? you wrote: 'since the first statement of assurance in respect to the financial year 1994, the court has repeated its reservations in respect to the reliability of the accounts. these reservations most often have their roots in the weakness of the accounting system and in the low awareness of the commission's operational dgs etc.'. you also said: 'in the absence of a comprehensive accounting system, the year-end financial statements are drawn up largely on the basis of records which are not part of the accounts. i would say these are actually two quite shocking statements and, oddly enough, i would also say they back up exactly some of the things that marta andreassen, the commission's former chief accountant, had been saying. if, as you just said in your statement, the accounts are so reliable, then why write those things in your report? if the accounts are so good, why did so many heads of departments refuse to sign their own accounts off without reservations? if your checks are so thorough, why do you not give us, the parliament, a figure that we have requested for many years now, which is the percentage of money lost through fraud, mismanagement and waste – a figure you used to give us to allow us to have a benchmark to see if things are materially getting better. finally, i have one or two questions for the commissioner because i am quite sure that you are a wise political manoeuvrer, commissioner schreyer. i think you have probably heard a host of political speeches in this parliament today about the court of auditors' reports and how people are framing themselves, looking forward to discharge. i believe you have a whole host of problems coming forward and, should you read the political tea-leaves correctly, you will be keen to get your reforms under way even quicker than you have done. so please, with that sort of political nous that you have, could you just answer a handful of very short questions for me? who did sign off within the commission the accounts in 2001? i think i have tabled this question to you and also a whole host of journalists have asked you this. we would really like that answer. was it the chief accountant at the time? was it the director-general of budgets? was it you? was it some secretary? was it the commercial engineer you have employed as the chief accountant of the commission presently? what is going on within your systems? we want reform. this parliament urges you to reform, and if you do not quickly reform the system, then please leave and let someone who will do the job do it properly. (applause)
mr president, i would also like to thank the court of auditors for its report again this year. i am extremely disappointed that this is the first occasion on which the court has been able to present its audit this year. i think it is one of the primary responsibilities of this parliament and i am very saddened that it has taken it until december to put on the agenda something that came out in november. the way the report has been set out has improved a little bit; however, i think the document itself is still largely impenetrable. it is over-complicated and is badly presented. we hope, president, that you will continue in your efforts to make this clearer in future. the main issue on which the budget control committee is likely to concentrate this year is of course the accounting system of the commission. this is not because marta andreassen has told us that we should do that, but because the court has been pointing out these failures since 1994. the fact is that the commission has been extremely slow in instigating those reforms and we still are unlikely to see a complete radical reform until 2005. i think this is an unacceptable degree of complacency. we must go much further and set a more ambitious timetable. although we do recognise, and in fact what we are asking the commission to do here is already ahead of 11 eu member states in their presentation of their accounts. but we are being tough on you and we want to push you to meet the standards of the best. the court has also been remiss in the fact that they have failed again to name and shame member states who have failed to control eu spending and i do not think we are ever going to identify the real culprits until the court of auditors stops being quite so cowardly and starts naming people. it is also worth noting, as people have said before, that this is the first year when directors general have taken control of their own departments but 22 of those dgs have expressed reservations and we will be investigating those during our research. an issue that many are keen to follow is also the failure of the commission to fine member states who infringe eu directives and i would just like to warn the commission that we are going to take this issue a lot more seriously. we want to see more money coming into eu coffers from the fines that should be imposed on members states who fail to respect directives.
mr president, copenhagen has been the place of many controversial summits but none will be more so than next week when the camel of enlargement approaches the eye of the needle of european domestic politics. we know that enlargement will make us more multi-cultural and more competitive. the central question is: will it also make us more democratic? many of the answers to that question are being teased out inside the convention, but it is certainly up to the european council and not the president, valéry giscard d'estaing, to decide just how far and how fast member states are prepared to project the union's experience in parliamentary democracy to the east and the south. i trust that the european council and the commission will be generous to turkey in this respect. we should throw ourselves behind the process of regime change which is taking place in turkey. there would be no stronger way of expressing support for turkey's reformers than offering a schedule for the opening of the accession negotiations but only on the condition that the turkish cypriots were brought to accept the annan proposals for a federated settlement of the problem of cyprus. it will certainly be far more possible for them to accept a un settlement should there be a firm prospect of membership for motherland turkey itself. they frankly require the assurance of our settled intentions concerning our future partnership with turkey and i know that the presidency will do all that it can to achieve this great breakthrough that is in its grasp.
mr president, you will recall that when we had our great debate with the accession countries in strasbourg, i finished my contribution by quoting an english saying that there is many a slip 'twixt cup and lip. i warned that we should not celebrate prematurely the end of this process because there was still a long way to go and of course i was right. it now seems that although we think we are close to agreement, we are actually a long way from agreement and there is a very real prospect that we could lose everything. we should be clear on that. if copenhagen ends up with endless rows over highly technical issues conducted in ten parallel negotiation sessions, it does not take a brain surgeon to realise the whole process could easily seize up. for once, i disagree with commissioner verheugen. i think if we miss copenhagen, we will not miss it for a week or a month or a couple of months, we will miss enlargement for a whole generation. as i have said before and i will say it again, it is now or never. this is the opportunity we have to seize. i welcome the brave attempt by the danish presidency to put an extra eur 1 billion on the table in order to clear the decks so we do not have these complicated negotiations in copenhagen. unfortunately, in doing so, particularly a couple of weeks in advance, they seem only to have encouraged some of the applicant states to believe that this is just one more stage in the negotiations and quite frankly we have to be clear that it is not. this is not a constantly elastic process. at some point we must say no. berlin and brussels cannot be breached. the moment we break budget discipline, we open a whole pandora's box which is liable to bring the whole project collapsing to the ground. we also must be clear that this project is so important that we are not prepared to let any one country sabotage the whole negotiations. if any one country wants to hold out until the last possible moment, they do so at their own risk and not at the risk of all the other accession countries, because we must be prepared to agree as each country is prepared to agree. equally, i must urge our leaders to ask themselves a simple question before they go to copenhagen. what will they do in 20 years' time when they are sitting with their grandchildren on their knees and their grandchildren say: ‘what was your real role in the great disaster when europe failed to grasp its own destiny? what did you actually do?’ are they really going to turn around and say: ‘well, actually, we could not do it because we were not sure if baltic sprats were big enough for our nets. we could not do it because we could not quite agree on the right amount of sheep premium or the exact sugar quota or exactly what sort of portfolio a commissioner should have for two months’? are we really going to say that? because it is going to sound very lame. let us think of the big picture and remember that the money we are giving to the accession countries represents one thousandth of the gdp of the european union. the entire eu budget is only two thirds of what the british government spends on social security alone. we are actually talking about what are minor issues in the global picture of things. let us not lose sight of that. concerning turkey, i would say that we must say to this new government, which is like a breath of fresh air in my opinion: you must meet the copenhagen criteria. we want you to meet it by such and such a date and if you do we will open negotiations. but let us kill off once and for all this idea that europe is a christian project only. i represent hindus, muslims, jews, sikhs, buddhists, taoists, all religions, and i am not prepared to say to them: ‘the european union is not for you’. this is the message some people in this chamber are giving out and we must kill that off.
mr president, i rise to share the concerns of those who have expressed fear about decisions being taken without consulting parliament on curtailing the mandate of the current european commission. of course we recognise that new member states have a right to a commissioner as from day one of their membership of the european union. of course it makes sense not to reshuffle all the portfolios of the existing commission just for a few months. therefore it makes sense to curtail the mandate of the existing commission and move rapidly to the approval of a new commission by the new parliament with the full democratic legitimacy that it entails. but how can this be done? under the current treaty, there are only two ways. one is that every single member of the current commission agrees to resign on an agreed date, or this parliament adopts a motion of censure forcing them to resign. both scenarios would be a little bit odd unless they were subject to an agreement among the three institutions. another way would be for the council to put it in the accession treaty but again if they were to do that unilaterally, without consensus and agreement, that would undermine the spirit of the treaties. so what i think should happen is that we do negotiate and reach an agreement on what would be sensible, which would be to fix an early date for the commission to be replaced, on condition that the new commission has the full legitimacy of going through the full procedure by the new house to be elected in the european elections. that is a sine qua non. under those circumstances, it would make sense, as has been suggested, to bring the date of the elections forward from june to may, because then the new house in june could already vote on the president and in july we could have the hearings and vote on the commission as a whole, which could then begin, if that were agreed, already in august or september. that would allow us to go forward more speedily. it would get rid of the problems of commissioners without portfolios for a lengthily period and it would make sense in its own right to have the elections early in may, which is a good idea on its own merits. by the way, mr president, i am sure you would be interested in this, it would avoid us having the problems in this house of having full members for one session only just prior to the european elections. i think that is the route the council should pursue in dialogue with us.
mr president, the reason this motion and this debate are on our agenda is due to the insistence of the christian democrats and conservatives in the ppe-de, and the socialists and social democrats in the pse. there is no need for us to have this debate today. my group is in favour of equal conditions for all members in a members' statute but this motion makes it harder and more difficult for us to achieve such a statute. if the motion proposed by mr barón crespo and mr poettering is adopted, it will block progress in our discussions with the council. those two gentlemen gave you a mandate for exploratory discussions with council and yet their parties now want to force a vote on mr rothley's opinion before giving parliament the chance to consider the outcome of your discussions. mr rothley's opinion wants to include in the members' statute issues of primary law such as immunities and privileges which require ratification by national parliaments. the message about reform that they are sending to the council is ‘take it or leave it’. the message that they are sending to meps who want reform is ‘forget it’. my party's joint resolution with the gue/ngl and verts/ale groups calls for a common statute, agreed with national governments in the council, giving equality of treatment to meps and transparency in our allowances. our question to individual members of the ppe-de and the pse, many of whom will be laughing all the way to the bank if they stop reform, is this: have you no self-respect? have you no concern for the reputation of this house? i am accused in mr rothley's press release of being unserious, of making dishonest accusations. mr rothley, i take seriously the accusations of dishonesty made by citizens against us. mr barón crespo accuses me of heaping invective on the socialists. if i am heaping invective on you, mr barón crespo, why are so many of your members, including all of your british members, going to support our motion in the vote tomorrow? the answer is that you heap invective on yourselves and you deserve it. moreover, you heap invective on those of us who recognise the public concern, who admit that the expenses regime is unjustifiable and who seek to introduce the highest standards into the management of this house. mr president, we abuse the taxpayer at our peril and we demean democratic politics through not reforming. in calling on members to support the resolution put forward by three groups, i call on them to reject the description of politicians put forward in the words of the poet, hilaire belloc, when he wrote:‘with pomp and ridiculous display,the politician's corpse was borne away,while those around him carped and slanged,i wept: i would have seen him hanged.’ (applause)
mr president, when i and my british conservative colleagues fought the last european elections in 1999, one of our core policies was that the unsatisfactory character of the terms and conditions which we, as meps, enjoy should be revised and updated. during the last three years or so, we have talked a lot but realistically we have achieved much less. the key to achieving a satisfactory outcome to this problem must be the attainment of a political agreement between parliament and the council on a package of terms and conditions for members of the european parliament which are appropriate to the twenty-first century. these must then be converted into proper legal form in the manner envisaged by the treaties. we must not allow ourselves to be side-tracked by debates and possible disagreement over the details of the mechanics of how this process of technical transposition is to be put into effect, because if we do that it gets in the way of achieving the necessary political agreement. of course, that political agreement is the essential pre-condition of the next stage, the completion of the legal and constitutional formalities, and as said by almost every speaker, and there is agreement about this, that has got to be done by the next european elections. once all the rhetoric is cut out, it is just as simple as that.
mr president, i rather suspect that voters outside this house would have some difficulty understanding what is going on here this afternoon and indeed some of us may. i wonder what the public would make of it. surely, the top and bottom of all this is that the majority of this house wants a sensible, standard remuneration package, salary, pension, reimbursement of expenses where practical on the basis of receipts and vouchers – the same sort of system that most of our voters are subject to in their workplaces. of course, some will say we do not do an ordinary job of work. we are special. yes, indeed we are special, we are public servants. i have sat in this house now for three years through innumerable discussions on this issue and we seem to move no further forward. what do we have on the table today? we have an exercise in subterfuge bogged down in a quagmire of procedure, i would hasten to suggest. on the one hand, we are talking about a report – a report that was not a report, merely an advice – voted by one committee. on the other hand, we are talking about some feedback from yourself, mr president, for which we are very grateful. but some people here do not even want to mention that. confused? i certainly am. members have nothing of substance or detail before of them, nothing that they have the right to amend or that they all have the possibility to properly vote on. so, what are we discussing here? some of us had hoped that we were at the very least talking about a process that would finally lead to a proper report setting out the detail of a proposed statute that would be clear, transparent and that every member would have the right to amend and vote on and stand accountable to his or her voters and finally, once and for all, to draw a line under the criticism that we are so easily subject to. instead, we are bogged down in this interminable roundabout of discussion on procedure. but, help is at hand! let us be clear, there is a very practical paragraph in the joint motion from three parties that would allow a practical process to take off. the very paragraph, of course, that is opposed by majorities within the big groups in this house. that paragraph is tabled individually as an amendment. so, be on notice: if you block that amendment, you block progress, you block this house from getting an open procedure that will lead to a statute and you stop this parliament becoming worthy of the name of parliament and you will leave our citizens even more bemused and sceptical. i would ask you, mr president, also to check the procedure under which this question has been brought because i really wonder if it is acceptable procedure within our rules. i would not wish people to become any more confused than we already are. (applause)
mr president, i would just like to express my profound sympathy with what mr nogueira román has said. we, in scotland, recently in the case the braer disaster suffered a similar misfortune. but that is not what i wanted to speak about tonight. i would like to mention the currently hot issue about access to the court of justice, especially rights of semi-privileged access in the case of regions with legislative powers. the committee on constitutional affairs discussed that last week and it will come before us in a fortnight's time as a hotly controversial point. tonight's debate on fisheries brings up an interesting example which shows what the reality of the issue is. there are big risks for scottish fisheries of the kind which mr nogueira in a different sense has alluded to. it could be that we want to raise an issue about the legality of current proposals under the primary law relating to the accession of spain and portugal. that really ought to be something which can be taken up by the legislature and executive which deal with this problem as a matter of european law, then the scottish parliament and executive. only if we get appropriate rights of access to the courts will that sort of question be answered in the proper place.
mr president, could i first of all add my thanks to the rapporteurs, mr jové peres and mr varela suanzes-carpegna, for excellent reports, and could i also say to both of them, because they come from galicia, that they have our deepest sympathy from the committee on fisheries on the unfolding tragedy in that area from the wreck of the prestige. if the committee on fisheries can give any help at all, we will do whatever is necessary and find whatever help we can muster to aid the people of galicia. our heart is with them at this time. i want to speak about the cod crisis. as the house knows, in order to tackle dwindling cod stocks in the north sea, the irish sea, to the west of scotland and the skagerrak, the commission are calling for massive cuts of up to 80% on the cod and haddock fisheries and significant reductions in other parts of the white fish sector. cuts of this magnitude would wipe out the white fish sector in the united kingdom and ireland and destroy many thousands of jobs in those countries, as well as in france, scandinavia and the netherlands. i have seen the revised cod and hake recovery plan from the commission. i have to say to the house that this is a radical change from the original cod and hake recovery plan that we considered and i believe that, under article 37 of the treaty, we have a right to be consulted in this house on these revised proposals. i hope that this house will support me in saying that we demand that right and that we intend to have our say and our full consultation will be called for on these revised proposals. in the interests of enhancing this debate, i want to ask the commission why they are prepared to accept the flawed and out-of-date scientific data on which they have based their call for these draconian cuts, because the ices scientific data was collected in the year 2001, before stringent conservation measures were put in place, the benefits of which have not yet been measured. for example: the fishermen in my constituency in scotland extended mesh sizes to 120 millimetres, they suffered the 12 week closure of 40 000 square miles of cod spawning grounds in the north sea last spring, 170 vessels were scrapped under the latest decommissioning rounds, leaving many thousands of tonnes of fish swimming in the sea that would otherwise have been caught. and of course, parts of the irish sea have been closed for cod fisheries for the last three years, enabling cod stocks to recover. the impact of these measures has not yet been analysed by the scientists, nor has the possibility that rising temperatures, pollution or the north atlantic drift may have contributed to the migration of cod further northwards towards iceland and the faroes where many thousands of tonnes of cod are regularly being caught. indeed the same scientists who are calling for a minimum closure of six years for our white fish industry cannot guarantee that the cod will ever return to the north sea even if we implement these measures. as we know in the committee on fisheries, 10 years ago the canadian government closed the newfoundland banks and there is no sign yet of the cod returning there. in their place, however, canadian fishermen are finding huge stocks of snow crab and shrimps, which are netting them around four times the dollar income that the cod used to earn. i think a similar pattern is now emerging in the north sea, where we are seeing large burgeoning populations of prawns, now one of our richest fisheries. scientists have recently revealed that, just as the cod fish will eat prawns, prawns eat cod larvae. it may well be that, whatever draconian measures we take, we will fail to re-establish the cod. by the end of six years of intended closure, at the very minimum, such measures would be academic in any case because according to the most recent socio-economic impact study, up to 44 000 fishermen and ancillary workers would have lost their jobs. that is the kind of catastrophe they face this christmas after faithfully adhering to the rules and regulations of the common fisheries policy for the past twenty years. i support the need for a sustainable fishery and the need to get fleet capacity into balance with available fish stocks, but i also recognise that a viable fishing industry needs fishermen to catch the fish.
mr president, in the cfp reform process, i have consistently favoured retaining the founding principle of relative stability – installing the coastal zones as a permanent feature of the cfp at least up to 12 miles and strengthening the role of the proposed regional advisory councils so that real involvement of stakeholders can be achieved. i have also supported in principle proposals to move to a multi-annual, multi-species and ecosystem approach to fisheries management and my views are broadly in line with the commission's on structural issues. but i believe that all of the positive potential of cfp reform could be in vain if the commission does not show itself to be willing to really listen to those who are actually affected by fisheries policy. our fisheries policy must be understood and not just perceived as something being arbitrarily handed down by a european union which claims to know better but cannot really prove it. certainly the cfp to date has not exactly been a resounding success, as we have all acknowledged. that means that the scientific advice has to be up-to-date, it has to be verifiable, it has to be independent and it has to be able to be proved to be so. the cod crisis that has been looming over the north sea for almost two years has seen fishermen already being subject to real-time closures, to swingeing cuts in fleet size and a variety of technical measures including increased mesh sizes. their efforts have borne at least some fruit in that the improvement of stocks of cod is only approximately 3% short of the target set by recovery plans. now, these same fishermen are faced with drastic cuts and a total loss of any confidence in the commission and its scientific advice, with measures being proposed which could totally devastate already fragile fishing communities. i think the commission must take into account the specific nature of this cod crisis and not tie its hands with political deadlines. the forthcoming december council will be the forum for finalising reform proposals and it should not be used for rushing through panic measures for cod and associated species. i urge the commission to transform its words into real action. why not establish urgently the first pilot regional advisory council – or management council, as i would prefer – and give it the task of helping to devise measures to save the stocks of white fish in the north sea. in that way, faith could be restored in the process at the same time. i call on the commission to think again too when it comes to open access to the north sea as part of a future cfp. the present crisis only underlines the fragility of that sea and the key stocks in its mixed fishery. your own words, commissioner, in a written answer to me said: ‘very little is known about the abundance and status of non-quota species in the north sea but fishing for non-quota species would almost certainly incur by-catches of species subject to quotas’. i say let us get reform right and then use it ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, we need to ensure the viability of the sector that is vital for employment and economic and social cohesion in the union's coastal areas. we need to maintain sustainable marine ecosystems conserving fish stocks for future generations. parliament's resolution the green paper identified the fundamental aim of the cfp as attaining a balance between the two. eldr amendments to the jové peres report seek to ensure the long-term future of the 12 mile limit and of relative stability. these are essential both to the sustainability of fragile coastal communities and of the stocks on which they depend. we aim to specify more clearly the other measures that need to taken to protect stocks. we would rename regional advisory councils as regional management councils. this makes it clear that such councils should have a real role in helping to formulate and to implement the measures needed under the reformed cfp. in particular, we must use these councils to help achieve the fullest possible understanding of the functioning of marine ecosystems. for example, recent research suggests that an increase rather than a decrease in nephrops quotas could actually be positive for the regeneration of cod stocks. finally, balancing the viability of the sector and the sustainability of stocks is not just a matter for the reform of the cfp. it is precisely what is required in the current cod crisis. it is good that the commission has addressed the socio-economic problems but the measures so far seem like prescribing a couple of aspirins to cure a severe case of pneumonia. so we are formally in support of the resolution. let us hope that a proper implementation of cfp reform will prevent any such crises arising in the future.
mr president, what has been agreed to in relation to cod fishing in the irish sea will discriminate drastically against the northern ireland fleet. more sacrifices have been made by that fleet than any other fleet in the european union. it has been pruned and pruned and pruned yet again. northern ireland fishermen more than anyone want to maintain sustainable fisheries in the irish sea. cod amounts to about 10% of the value of all fish annually landed in northern ireland. northern ireland fishermen are opposed to the present proposals. they are not viable as an economic option, either for fishermen whose assets are not really being fully used or for the governments who may be spending considerable amounts of money on aid without obtaining long-term change assuring a viable future for the industry. fishermen have promoted the following as alternatives in northern ireland: further targeted decommissioning; real-time closures; additional technical conservation measures. fishermen want to work with the scientists but the scientists who advise the commission will not work with them. i have been at a meeting where they invited the scientists to come and look at the irish sea and the scientists would not even come and look at it. they prepared a boat for them and they would not even go out in the boat. i say that if the scientists cannot go and argue their case in the irish sea then it must not be a scientific case that they are really arguing. the chairman of the committee on fisheries has a proposal that would secure more money for investigating the effects of the measures already in place. that is something that is very important. we need to know if all the sacrifices that fishermen have made in the past have done anything to help the fishing industry, and the scientific evidence should be produced if they have it. this should be supported, and a proper evaluation of what has already been imposed conducted, before any new decisions are taken that will have a discriminatory effect on the northern ireland fishing fleet. fears of discrimination are not myths in northern ireland, they are stubborn facts. we need to have a real evaluation of what success the past cuts have had and what information is available to be examined. northern ireland fishermen have made great sacrifices in the past but they are now being convinced that the knife has been turned on them. for example, we have had an announcement from dublin that there are going to be bigger, larger and better boats. there is going to be an atlantic dream financed partly by eu aid while the fishermen in northern ireland are being pushed to destroy their own boats. finally, i would like to say that not only fishermen are going to suffer but also their wives and families will suffer and death is going to come to the fishing villages and to the hopes of the future for these people.
mr president, i would like to concentrate on the cod crisis. it is a tragic day today if we are meeting here not to focus on the positive reform of the cfp but to debate the fate of fisheries in the north sea. as we all know, isis has recommended no fishing for haddock and whiting in these areas unless ways to harvest these stocks – and i am quoting – ‘without by-catch or discards of cod’ can be demonstrated. isis has also implied severe restrictions in the fisheries of nephrops, plaice and sole with – and i quote – ‘stringent restrictions on the catch and discard rates of cod with effective monitoring of compliance with those restrictions’. i am glad that the commission has moved away from an all-out moratorium. however, sadly, due to the nature of mixed fisheries, 80% would still effectively mean the same: a closure of fisheries in the north sea. i would like to commend the work of the uk and scottish fisheries ministers; the uk fisheries minister mr elliot moreley, the scottish fisheries minister mr ross finny and the secretary of state for scotland, mrs helen liddle. they are fighting for the future of scottish fisheries and the final decision ultimately rests at their doors, not ours. however, we have to consider what kind of future we want. do we actually want to say: ‘sod the cod and allow fishing to continue and just hope for the best. the other stocks will not go the same way as the cod’? or, do we want to work through, in a cooperative manner, with industry, ministers and other organisations to seek a common solution? whatever solution is agreed, change is inevitable. at present there is no specific uk/scottish counter-proposal to what the commission is proposing. however, doing nothing in the light of declining cod stocks is not an option. the difficult task of reaching a quota figure that is sustainable yet scientifically credible remains. the next two weeks will be critical to finding a solution to this crisis.
the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has been working. first of all, mr lage, i would like to thank you very much for your report. i'm glad you're supporting this proposal. it allows community vessels access to angolan waters until 2 august 2004. the new protocol is to the mutual benefit of the community and angola. it contains some innovations which i would like to mention here. in order to ensure sustainable fishing, the stocks in angolan waters are monitored annually by scientists on the spot. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the tacs and the fishing opportunities for bluefin tuna in the north sea. the eu has also made a significant contribution to the development of the angolan economy through the establishment of a partnership between the eu and angola to develop research, artisanal fisheries, training and aquaculture. this is a marked improvement on the 28% we had for targeted actions in the last protocol. the commission has also proposed that the fishing vessels be allowed to carry six angolan seamen instead of five, except for tuna fishermen. this will create an additional 160 to 180 jobs on the spot. i would like to make a brief comment on the amendments. i would like to refer here to what i said earlier on the protocol on senegal. the question of including the obligation of member states under regulation 500/2001 to declare their catches in third countries is not possible. but i am willing to include this commitment in a new agreement, because it is something that needs to be negotiated. (applause from the centre)
madam president, the complete, total and disgraceful failure of the common fisheries policy and the consequent collapse of fish stocks means that the eu must now cast its net wider and wider to satisfy voracious spanish demands. not content with destroying the north sea, africa is now the prize. there are now 16 third country agreements in place. today we are discussing angola and, according to the world wildlife fund, this deal will strip a vulnerable african coastal community of a precious asset. when each deal is debated, my colleague, mr nigel farage, has urged you to open your eyes to the environmental destruction and, more seriously, to the deaths of many hundreds of black african fishermen which european union boats are causing every year. exhaustive documentary evidence from mauritania and senegal confirms the scale of this tragedy. the contempt with which our pleadings have met leads me to think that most of the rest of you must inhabit a different planet. there is a better way. ten years ago, namibia threw out the spanish boats and took control over her 200-mile territorial waters. 14 000 people now work in an industry worth usd 350 million a year. namibia should be our model if we really want to help the third world. let us stop exploiting these poor countries and encourage them to modernise their industries. let us recognise that the only fishery management schemes that work around the world are the ones with national control.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work and i very much welcome the outcome of conciliation on the subject, but i think we have several causes for complaint as well. four subjects were covered by the original physical agents directive, noise was one, but the original 1986 directive on noise was due for revision in 1991. here we are almost at the end of 2002 before we finally have a revised text. vibration was another subject but it took council eight years to reach a common position on vibration, and, as we have heard from the commissioner, we still have the aspects concerning fields and waves and optical radiation to be dealt with. progress is painfully slow. yet, all around us in this high-tech era we are increasingly being bombarded by fields and waves from wireless local access networks, from blue tooth devices, from class i lasers and the like. i hope we will see a renewed sense of urgency on the part of council. the directive is to be welcomed. it will bring about direct improvements. workers will be exposed less to noise at work. then their representatives will play a part in risk assessment in the choice of hearing protectors. our preventative audio-metric testing will be made available under certain circumstances. all of these things and many others are to be welcomed. for the music and entertainment sector, i think we have established a very good approach. member states will, as we have heard, draw up a code of conduct in consultation with the social partners and will give practical guidelines on how employers and employees can meet their obligations in that sector. the approach has been very much welcomed by the musicians union of great britain who acted to coordinate the work of musicians' unions across the european union. in the interests of time, i will make just one other point. many voices were raised in conciliation about the importance of business impact assessment on proposals of this sort – rigorous impact assessment. i will pose the question here that i posed in committee: what value should we place upon whether a person in their 40s or 50s can actually hear and communicate with their infant grandchildren? because that is the part of the hearing spectrum industrial hearing loss often destroys. so, let us have a cost-benefit assessment by all means, but let us take all of the costs and all of the benefits into account, not just narrow financial ones.
madam president, we have moved a long way from when the rapporteur brought a report first to the employment and social affairs committee. i think we still have problems for the entertainment and leisure industry but the rest of industry and the workers will find this directive very easy to live with. if the original proposals had gone through, industry across the eu would have been decimated and workers thrown out of work – particularly in the construction industry, cement industry, mining and quite a lot of engineering industry – so thank goodness we have returned to some sort of sensible solution and moved back to the council position where hearing protection can be taken into account when measuring decibel levels. i am glad we have moved back to the weekly measurement granted by member states if they so deem necessary. but the amendment granting the leisure and entertainment business a five-year delay for implementation while the commission looked at the best way to regulate this industry, taking into account the special problems faced by the pub and club industry in particular, was unfortunately lost that in conciliation, although, with a code of conduct, it is better than was first proposed. i grant you that. but at the present moment the current noise directive is not being implemented in the pub and club industries, neither in the uk nor in denmark or in many other member states. the reason it is not being implemented is because it is not workable. my problem is that if we add another layer of bureaucracy for the pub and club industry like this, we will cause tremendous problems. that is why i personally refuse to sign off the conciliation because i believe we could have got more from the council. i was on my own apart from one notable exception so i appreciate the vote tomorrow will not make any difference at all to the final outcome. we have, through a lot of hard work, got a better deal for industry and workers alike. we could have got a better deal for the entertainment and leisure sector and i am sorry we did not take that opportunity.
madam president, may i just say what a pleasure it is to be invited to take the floor at five minutes to midnight. i often think – because it is usually the case with employment legislation – that it is all a plot by the secretariat to remind us of the folly of the working time directive, not that we need to be reminded of that particular folly on that particular directive. regarding this one, this conciliated text is in my view a bad compromise on a bad directive. it would have been much better for both parties to have kept their original positions and for the legislation to have fallen. certainly i voted against it; i was the notable exception referred to by my colleague liz lynne. i also voted against it in the conciliation committee for this reason, even though we did manage to dilute many of the dafter amendments during that committee process. as far as the uk is concerned, existing noise regulations have been well thought through and these tighter regulations at eu level are neither necessary nor appropriate. mr hughes mentioned the importance of business impact assessments and that they should be carried out thoroughly. i agree with that. it is significant that there has been no proper regulatory impact assessment at eu level to determine the costs and benefits of the proposed directive. certainly there was one done by the uk which established that the costs far outweighed the benefits and perhaps that is why the eu decided not to do one. this legislation does not reflect the real world. coming two weeks after parliament approved the atypical workers directive, where extra costs and red tape could mean the loss of 160 000 temporary worker jobs in the uk alone, this latest directive shows that the eu continues to operate in a time warp when it comes to employment and social legislation. finally, i would like to say that during the progress of the legislation through the european parliament there have been three different ministers back in the uk, which may explain why the uk government has made such a limp response to it. the uk conservative response will not be limp. we will stand up for common sense and vote against it.
mr president, as the final member speaking on this issue, i would like to repeat and underline that the directive will, over time, render occupational noise-induced hearing loss and associated conditions diseases of the past. that is an achievement by the rapporteur, compounded by the fact that there were a number of national positions which were very difficult at the outset of this report, as has been said by other members. a huge amount of work went into that position. from the united kingdom position, we were left with the situation where a number of issues had to be ironed out. we now have a situation where our government – and i am surprised at mr bushill-matthews' statement on this: we may have had three different ministers involved, but the fact is that the united kingdom government – and this is one of the governments most interested in this particular health and safety measure, believes that this strikes a good balance between improved worker protection and the need to avoid excessive and unnecessary regulation. i think it is important not to caricature health and safety measures when a huge amount of work has gone into ironing out those national positions. we heard a lot from mrs lynne about the impact on musicians in the entertainment sector. we have all in the united kingdom heard much said on this. the fact is that those sectors have been satisfied by what could have been a far more difficult directive. the rapporteur is to be congratulated on the progress made. that is why i will be voting in favour.
rapporteur. – mr president, it is estimated that around 12 million vertebrate animals are used annually in the european union for the development and the testing of drugs, vaccines, chemicals and other products. a further nine million are bred and destroyed as surplus to requirements. since directive 86/609, which controls the use of animals in experiments, was first implemented more than 16 years ago, a great deal has changed. the original purpose of the directive was to avoid distortions in trade. the european union did not then have a duty, as it does now, to consider the welfare of animals in agriculture, research, transport or single market policies. today, animal welfare is the subject of extensive public debate and interest and concern about the use of animals has escalated. also, enormous progress has been made in scientific knowledge and practice. for these reasons, as well as deficiencies in the actual operation of the directive, with many cases of infringement action taken by the commission over the years, it is clear that this directive is in urgent need of revision. the commission has already made a commitment to review the directive next year. i hope that the points on which we have focussed in this report will guide their work because there are many lessons to be learnt. the first is the need for a central european union inspectorate to coordinate the work of inspectors in the member states but with the power to visit facilities and revoke licences if necessary. in 1986, parliament called for a standing committee to monitor the implementation of the directive but it was not done. i believe this has proved to be a mistake. there is great variation between the member states in the way that information is collated and in the way that replacement, reduction and refinement are applied. for example, the commission has already published two sets of statistics on the number and use of animals in experiments. the data is required every three years. it does not have to contain very much detail and there has been no standard format for presenting it. some member states publish very detailed statistics annually while others publish the bare minimum as infrequently as possible. this has made evaluating the implementation of the directive difficult. we need data to be published annually and in a standard format. the use of alternative testing methods is, of course, central. animal experiments should be seen as exceptions to the rule rather than normal scientific procedures. work on alternatives is progressing fast. this is where member states should be concentrating and giving priority. related to this is article 7(2) of this directive, which states that animals should be used for experiments only where there is no scientifically viable alternative. given that the commission does not currently require detailed information on statistics, it is impossible to monitor whether this article is actually being implemented. that is why the report recommends a central eu database including information on all animal experiments approved, currently performed and finalised. this would allow for eu-wide checks to ensure that article was being implemented and that experiments were not being duplicated. while the number of animals used for experiments had appeared to be reducing, the use of transgenic animals is rising. this is something that could not have been foreseen in 1986 when the directive was adopted. there is inadequate provision for it in the directive as a result. transgenic animals must be included. finally, many complaints from ngos and other bodies and organisations relate to breaches of article 5 on the general care and accommodation of animals. this can largely be overcome by an eu-wide standard training course including animal welfare and the ethics of experiments. there are four amendments to the report. i would like to thank my colleagues in the committee on the environment. i would also like to thank mr nisticò in particular for discussing his amendments with me. i regret that i cannot support amendments 1 and 2 as they weaken the report considerably on a point which is of great concern, that is, the use of primates, especially wild caught primates. i can support amendment no 3. i believe there is general agreement in parliament and in the commission that directive 86/609 is neither suitable nor effective today and that we need new legislation. i hope that the commission will take up parliament's recommendations.
mr president, it is always a pleasure to hear a committed rapporteur and a committed commissioner speaking on their common concern in this matter. that, of course, has made the whole debate briefer because it is not interrogatory. i want to say two things. firstly, it is extraordinary that a directive promulgated in 1986 has still not been properly implemented in some member states. if ms evan's report does nothing else, it has brought to our attention the need to speed up the process, because that is at the heart of the reform of our procedures generally: implementation, how it is done, rather than innovation, is now always the motto. i agree with mr lund about mr nisticò's amendments. i have to say with great respect that i do not think i can support amendments nos 1 or 2 which he has withdrawn. the reason, very simply, is that it seems to me to devalue animals caught in the wild, as though they are a cheap supply that can be brought in whilst all our concern goes towards zoo-bred animals and the contents of laboratories. i also feel that we need to look very carefully in this directive at exactly how the process of experimentation will go in the future. we have this triptych here neatly from ms evans: replacement, reduction and scaling down. i would add reflection – we ought to reflect before every experiment is carried out. why are we doing this? is it being duplicated? what will the results be? it will be a good day for parliament if we can do this as well as for the animals under consideration.
mr president, sometimes it is an advantage to be spokesman for the third group in parliament because it has provided me with time to read the commission's paper. i can, therefore, say with some authority that i strongly welcome it. it is a strong assertion of the commission's orthodox function and it should shift the debate about where a power lies, centre stage inside the convention. it represents a challenge to those prime ministers who prefer to opine on the fringes of the convention but who seem far too frightened to contribute official proposals. as most of the items in the commission's programme appear also in my draft for a federal union it is clear that i shan't be your fiercest critic and, while i commend the firm rejection of an idea of a super-president of the council, i do have concerns and reservations about the proposal for an executive presidency of the council. i wonder if this would not lead to more of the inconsistency and the conflict with the commission that we have at present. surely it would be an improvement to follow the logic of what you propose for foreign and security policy, which is the virtual cloning of mr solana and mr patten, and to follow that practice in the other two areas where the council enjoys executive authority. why not let the commissioner responsible chair the council in its formations for economic policy and interior affairs? nevertheless, despite some reserves the parliamentary delegation in the convention will follow the principal lines of this proposal and i look forward to future close collaboration inside the convention with mr barnier and mr vitorino. (applause)
mr president, in reply to mr seppänen's point, i do not know many civil services in the world which are appointed only after a hearing by the parliament and have to acquire the confidence of the parliament to take office or which are dismissible as a college by parliament. that is one of the important features of the situation as it obtains at the moment. as mr prodi has said, what we are looking for is a supranational democracy in europe and that will be, in important ways, a democracy sui generis, not exactly like that of any pre-existing state or society. i welcome a lot of what he has said today about the way the commission should take office and hold office. this is an attempt to retain the kind of balance between the three institutions which ought to characterise europe and which does not at the moment in anything like the same way characterise many of our member states, where the government has become the controller of the legislature of the parliament rather than the other way around. that is a good feature of his proposals. although mr hänsch has pointed very accurately to some difficulties and potential contradictions that will mean that these proposals have to be more fully thought through to deal with the question, what about the risks of deadlock in the system which you are suggesting? another point that picks up what mr poettering said and which nobody else has spoken of is that a european democracy must be a democracy at many levels. one of the great disappointments of the convention so far has been the tiny attention it has given to those levels of democracy which exist within and below the level of the member state. if we do not take account, adequately and properly, of substantial constitutional regions with legislative powers - the internal nations of the member states - then this union will not work as a successful democracy. mr napoletano has prepared a report today to the constitutional affairs committee of this parliament. we have amended it in committee and we believe that we have strengthened it. he is not fully happy with all that we have reached there but i hope that the commission and the convention are going to listen to this because if they do not also attend to this vital level of democracy in europe all will fail. (applause)
- the agenda calls for a vote. report (a5-0411/2002) by mr carlos westendorp y cabeza, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision on the granting of additional financial assistance to moldova (com (2002) 538 - c5-0484/2002 - 2002/0236 (cns)) (parliament adopted the text) after the vote
- this will be entered in the minutes of today's sitting.
- we will not vote on amendments nos 4 and 17 because the president has ruled them inadmissible. in its view, they belong more to the explanatory memorandum than to the legislative text as such.
- i have here in my possession a letter from the president saying that amendments nos 4 and 17 have been declared inadmissible.
- i take note of your formal protest, but the amendments are still inadmissible. after the vote on the committee's amendments
- for the sake of clarity, as the rapporteur has rightly said, we shall vote on the revised version of amendment no 4. before the vote on amendment no 20
- let me read you what the president has decided. it considered amendment no 4 inadmissible in its present form. if the rapporteur agrees to amend it by deleting the reference to the current commission proposal - a reference which would not be relevant once the legal instrument is adopted - then amendment no 4 can be accepted. that's what we did. the only thing the president said in his letter about amendment no 17 was: 'i declare this amendment inadmissible.' he does not say that it could be accepted with some modification... mr rapporteur, i owe you an apology. i just got word there's been a typographical error. the president meant that he now declares this amendment admissible. i apologize for that. (applause) all right, i'm going to quit! (laughter)
- you're absolutely right, and i apologize again. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the vote on the request for an early vote will take place at the end of the debate.
mr president, we need to change this amendment so that it better reflects the realities of the treaty of nice. i would ask that the last two words be deleted and that you accept that as an oral amendment.
mr president, i do not wish to reopen a debate which this parliament has already had but you were elected on a programme for reform of this house. powerful elements in the two major groups have blocked that reform and i hope, mr president, that the council and the commission, represented here today, will see the strength of feeling in this house in favour of such reform, greater than it has ever been, and will take that into account.
in writing. - i voted against the report on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (eec) no 2081/92 on the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin for agricultural products and foodstuffs, because it approves the regulation and does not seek to improve the content or to change the objectives of the old regulation or the commission proposal. the general objective is regionalization through a uniform community approach. this is a development which i cannot support as a sovereignist. the regulation will impose unnecessary restrictions on producers, particularly on small and medium-sized farms producing agricultural products. i also firmly believe that consumers will be better able to identify themselves if the name of the member state in which the product was produced is clearly displayed. the consumer should be able to support domestic production if he so wishes. finally, it is unjustifiable for developing countries to have to comply with eu production standards. this is a hidden trade barrier.
in writing. - this report was voted in accordance with rule 110a, which does not allow for debate in parliament or amendment of the report. the british delegation of the epp-ed group has already sought to amend the reports which it did not support. this new article, however, leaves no alternative but to abstain on certain reports. before extending europol's powers and financial resources, the uk conservatives felt it was necessary to establish whether it should be given powers in this or other areas, or whether top priority should be given to interstate cooperation, using existing national resources.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the foster report and congratulate mrs foster on presenting a series of proposals which provide for appropriate quality control systems and higher standards in the field of civil aviation safety. despite the thoroughness of the report before us, i would like to add that the emphasis on airport security should not prevent eu member states from taking measures to compensate in any way european citizens who are unjustly searched, detained or harassed at airports without a valid reason. the current forms of compensation provided by law for such offences, both in ports and airports, are inadequate. this is often reflected in the arguments put forward by our electors. in the light of the events of 11 september, the foster report is an important contribution to the security of all eu citizens.
mr president, i just am registering that i abstained on the thorning-schmidt report. my explanation of vote, if anyone can hear me, is that although we achieved a great deal for industry as a whole, and the rapporteur changed her view during the process of the report going through the european parliament - in other words, she took hearing protection into account and moved towards weekly measurements, which i welcome - the amendment that we voted through in parliament on its exemption for entertainment and leisure for five years while the commission did a report on the special nature of the entertainment and leisure business was lost in conciliation. that was the reason for abstention. we gained some things for industry but lost some for the music and entertainment business.
mr president, on mr jové peres, the eplp voted differently from the proposed ps line in order to be consistent with the approach taken by the uk government on fisheries and to reflect our support for the following: to look at fisheries management on the basis that absence of scientific evidence does not mean postponing conservation support for a strong role for regional management councils with decision-making power and access support for extension up to 24 miles, support for 12 miles and support for 50 miles for remote areas, for effective measures to reduce fishing capacity and for a continuation of relative stability.
mr president, the snp members here, neil maccormick and myself, have taken a constructive approach to the issue of common fisheries policy reform because we agree that there is dire need for common fisheries policy reform. for that reason, we voted today in favour of improving mr jové peres's text in various ways. nevertheless, in the end we voted against the overall package because we do not believe that it goes far enough in strengthening guarantees on relative stability, for example, on continuing access restrictions to certain waters and on enforcement issues. scotland's fishing communities will be demanding that a new common fisheries policy actually does what it is supposed to do, namely that it actually addresses the real management issues in a way which will be effective in terms of conservation and sustainability.
mr president, i just want to endorse what my friend and colleague, mr hudghton, has said and indeed to endorse many of the things which catherine stihler said as well. in this area a great deal of the discussion among us remains bedevilled by different understandings of the legal background, in particular, of the continuing effects of the spanish and portuguese treaty of accession of 1985. that does need testing in a legal way and not just by political debate in the parliament. i would like to take some steps to push that forward. as i mentioned yesterday, it does show one of the kinds of areas in which it would be very fruitful if it were the case that regions with legislative power had the right to seize the court of justice of questions because, after all, a parliament like the scottish parliament, which has legislative responsibility for these matters, should be able to test out the question of the legal basis and so should the parliament of galicia, might i add. this is not a particularly one-country point. it is to do with the thought that these are issues of law as well as of politics and we should be thinking of good ways of getting the law finally determined by a judicial authority.
mr president, regarding the varela report on structural assistance, we rejected the report because it aims to keep the current structure of cfp subsidies. the subsidies system has led to a contradictory situation where subsidies are spent on the one hand on scrapping vessels to reduce capacity, and on the other hand on financing the building of new vessels and modernisation of others. the subsidies system has helped to drive over-capacity of the eu fleet. it has mainly supported the large boat-owners at the expense of smaller operators and local fishing communities, and this subsidy system has financed the export of our over-capacity to other parts of the world. this is unacceptable and that is why we rejected the varela structural assistance report.
mr president, on the second varela report on the scrapping of fishing vessels, we rejected the report because the number of boats in europe should match the number of fish available and currently the european fleet is greatly over capacity. we believe the report to support re-directing structural funds in 2004 to 2006 to help reduce the size of the fleet on a voluntary basis. the report suggests that any emergency community measure would need additional funding up to 2006. this is not logical because it proposes extra funding for scrapping at the same time as providing subsidies for improving efficiency of the existing vessels or even building new ones. it does not respect the precautionary principle. although not perfect, most scientific evidence suggests that many stocks are in danger of collapse and are being over-fished by an eu fleet that is too big.
mr president, i am speaking on behalf of an alliance of opportunists and hypocrites. on behalf of the european parliamentary labour party, i wish to say that we are strong supporters of a member statute being introduced before the 2004 european parliamentary elections. because of that, the british labour delegation voted for the eldr/green/gue/ngl resolution. it bests reflects the entire delegation's desire for transparency and the renumeration of meps' salaries and expenses, as did the separate motions by those groups for which we also voted. the ppe-de/pse resolution supports the existing text from the legal affairs committee and that involves contentious primary legislation which is not acceptable to council and therefore almost certain to fail. the text does not make clear the requirement for there to be complete and transparent reform of all members' expenses. this is not a position, in all friendship to our colleagues in the pse, which we are able to accept. the ppe-de/pse resolution also calls on the commission to give an opinion on the text of the legal affairs committee before it has been discussed by us in plenary. this seems to the british labour delegation a recipe for further delay. it will be fundamentally our problem and our responsibility.
in writing. - although the delegation of the british conservative party agrees that prosecution of those involved in human trafficking is an effective means of dealing with such criminals, it is not. a directive which would allow illegal immigrants to remain in a member state, even for so-called judicial reasons, would leave the door open to abuse of the asylum system. if this legislation were to be implemented, it would only exacerbate the problem. instead, we need to address these issues as individual states, and take more drastic measures to discourage traffickers and false asylum seekers.
mr president, the december council of fisheries ministers will have a hefty agenda in terms of agreeing the first package of cfp reform proposals. the commission says that it wants from that a new way of doing things, a better way of doing things, involving stakeholders more, using a multi-annual, multi-species ecosystem approach to management. and yet, at the very same time, the commission seems hell-bent on pushing through its current proposals on cod and hake recovery, which, i believe, are so different from previous versions that they ought to be put out to further consultation. i also think that to press ahead and agree that package with its wide-ranging consequences will, in fact, torpedo the cfp reform package and prevent any perception forthcoming from the council that the eu actually means what it says when it states that it wants to do things in a better way. i think that the council should concentrate on the reform, get it right and then implement it urgently, setting up a regional advisory body to allow the stakeholders to be part of the solution to the cod and hake crisis and not just to be seen as the problem.
- that concludes the explanations of vote.
- approval of the minutes of the previous sitting - communication of common positions of the council - authorisation to draw up reports - transmission of texts adopted during the sitting - schedule of next sittings: see minutes.
- ladies and gentlemen, i have the great pleasure of welcoming today, on behalf of the european parliament, mr alejandro toledo, president of the republic of peru. (applause) we met in the hall of honor, and it's absolutely freezing this morning. i assured the president that he would receive a very warm welcome in parliament. mr president, your election on 3 june 2001 marked a new beginning in the political life of your country and a step towards democratic consolidation. the priorities of your government - quality jobs, the fight against poverty, the strengthening of democracy and the rule of law - are all values which this house subscribes to, believes in and defends. i know that even before you took office you expressed a deep desire to strengthen the existing links between peru and the european union. that is why we are particularly pleased to have you here today and throughout this week. this is a very important event for our parliament in the history of our old continent and of the european union. we are now nearing the end of a long process of enlargement of our union to include many more member states. as you can imagine, this is a complex and demanding job that takes up all our time. your presence here today reminds us of our duty to push the boundaries of introspection and open ourselves to the rest of the world. your presence here today reminds us - even as we move towards a new great wave of european integration - that we have an international political responsibility that goes beyond these borders. thanks for the reminder. we support the agreement between the european union and the andean community and hope to see it deepened, as was stated at the summit with the latin american and caribbean states in madrid this year. i also know your interest in international humanitarian funds to try to alleviate the effects of poverty and the guayaquil declaration of july 2002. we share so many points of view and i am pleased to hear you and to invite you to address the european parliament. (applause) i would like to thank
president of peru. (es) mr pat cox, president of the european parliament, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, it is a real honour to be here in a place which is the paradigm of democracy in the world. three hundred and seventy-four million europeans who have decided to join hands to build together a much more integrated world, a world that goes beyond business and trade. i come here today as the constitutional president of peru, after having visited you in strasbourg last time as an elected president. however, mr president, my convictions of being a rebel in the cause of democracy and freedom, human rights and the environment have not changed. (applause) europe plays a crucial role in the world, and you will allow me to reflect with you today in all frankness. there is no room in the world to be selectively global, globalization cannot be limited to investment, trade or finance. if there are some aspects in which globalization makes sense, it's democracy, freedom, human rights and the environment, because democracy has no nationality, just as human rights have no color. and because we have a responsibility to leave to future generations a livable world where our children and our children's children can breathe in peace not only democracy but an environment that is healthy, where factories that produce wealth cannot destroy the freshness of the environment that future generations will inherit from us. it is true that we need to integrate economically and financially. it is true that latin america needs to diversify its trade and financial relations more than ever. but it is also true that the time has come to integrate without losing our national identity, the time has come to embrace globalisation and competitiveness on the premise that our diversity is our strength. we don't intend with globalization to create a uniform culture in the world, it would be terrible if kentucky fried chicken or mcdonald's were part of the world's culture. i'm going to rebel. (applause) being global and being competitive doesn't mean tearing away your national identity, being competitive doesn't mean taking away the human essence of the women and men of the world, being part of the new cnn culture or the internet culture that allows us to navigate the world, it can't separate us from our languages, our food, our cultural characteristics. i invite this parliament, for which i have the deepest respect, to make every possible effort, mr president, to begin to put a human face on globalisation if we want it to be sustainable over time. we cannot talk about globalisation, about competitiveness, when there are millions of women and men in the world who go to bed tonight not knowing if they will have something to eat tomorrow. globalization, to be sustainable over time, has to be inclusive, has to have a human face and has to include those who are marginalized today. in latin america, 44 percent of the population lives below the poverty line, 21 percent of the population lives below the extreme poverty line, extreme, one dollar a day. if you don't have a social heart, i invite you to think in business terms. look at the waste of hands that can be part of the production process to make the economy grow in a sustainable way. look at the waste of a potential market of that 44% of latin americans, who can consume more bread, more milk, more shirts, more shoes. if you don't want to look at it in terms of social equity, look at it in terms of business opportunity. i have come here today to share with you a concern that is at the heart of latin america, which i raised at the summit of presidents in guayaquil and which i raised at the united nations general assembly. today, with great affection but at the same time with great frankness, i want to open my mind to a subject on which there is still much to be refined, but i put it forward as an idea. the developing world, and latin america in particular, faces a huge challenge: the challenge of reconciling the responsible management of economic policies. we have been in structural adjustment for 30 years, 30 years in which we have been asked to put our house in order economically; we have tried, some more than others, with more or less rigor. but after 30 years of structural adjustment, we have not been able to engage, we have not been able to connect structural adjustment with a new stage of sustained economic growth that creates decent jobs for people, that creates income and that increases domestic consumption and that consequently raises the living standards of the population. friends of this parliament, disillusionment with democracy is beginning to emerge in latin america. we are faced today with a dilemma that the gringos would define as the need to reconcile wall street with main street. in the face of the pots that ring in argentina, venezuela, ecuador, colombia or uruguay, we cannot close our ears or eyes, there is a voice to which we cannot turn a deaf ear. people start saying "how much democracy and where is the work, how much democracy and why so much poverty". the industrialized countries tell us that they believe in strengthening democratic institutions, the industrialized countries tell us that we must embark on the train of globalization and competitiveness and ordinary people say, "well, how do i meet the most basic needs of my family tomorrow?" i know that i am deliberately oversimplifying the argument, to say that there is a great dilemma in reconciling the responsible conduct of economic policies. thirty years of adjustment that has not worked should not lead us to irresponsibility. you must not tell us that we must return to populism. but something has to be done. women and men in latin america are starting to take to the streets to protest and in doing so they are directly or indirectly complaining about democracy. and that is dangerous. i say it myself, i am a fanatic of freedom, democracy, human rights and the environment. but i can't close my eyes to what i see and hear. peru has 54% of women and men who are sentenced to live below the poverty line, 23% sentenced to live below the extreme poverty line. and what do we tell them? we believe in democracy. in fact, there are some who still say "with fujimori, in dictatorship, we were better". something is happening in the region. i know that you are all very concerned about solving this enormous challenge of european integration, and perhaps by bringing this concern to your attention i am distracting you. but if i do, i'm not apologizing to them. i just want to say that there is a continent which is willing to buy and sell, which is willing to live together with democratic convictions, with the defence of human rights and with care for the environment. i hope that this process of european union integration, which i admire, will not lead to neglect of what is happening on a promising continent. in april or may the rio group countries will meet in lima, and i have deliberately asked that the central issue be the search for financial mechanisms to finance governance and democracy in latin america. democracy costs money, it's like a plant that after it's planted, you have to water it and we can't take it for granted. our hearts bleed when we see a sister nation like argentina. we are saddened to see a possible drag effect in the region and, however responsible we may be in the management of economic policy, there is no shield that can prevent a drag effect that will return the region to the pendulum of new authoritarianisms with different faces. watch your back! democracies can no longer be toppled by traditional military coups, but democracy can be weakened by the lack of concrete results for the poor. we have asked two international bodies to help us find financial mechanisms that will give oxygen to governance and democracy, beyond the agreements with the international monetary fund and the world bank, which set us debt levels, with which we have undertaken commitments on fiscal deficit levels. and i agree with you. we cannot fall into populism, because the consequences are hyperinflation, and hyperinflation makes the poor poorer. but what good is it to us not to have inflation? what good does it do to faithfully follow the imf's recipe? my government has just signed an agreement with the fund, but what good is it if it doesn't produce the results the poor expect and they start to lose faith in democracy? it is time to sit down together and think creatively about how to find financial mechanisms that go beyond the levels of external indebtedness and that, without breaking fiscal and monetary discipline, allow us greater degrees of financial freedom to invest in public works that generate jobs and that allow governance and democracy in the region not to be threatened. friends and friends of this parliament, two weeks ago there were regional and municipal elections in my country and my party did not do well. i could have used money, i could have given away, i could have done populism and, probably, the election results would have been better for my party. but i was not elected to govern for my party, i was elected to govern for all peruvians and i made the firm decision not to take government decisions thinking about the next elections, i decided to take state decisions, thinking about the next generations and for that i paid a very high price. (applause) irresponsible economic management would have meant bread for today, hunger for tomorrow. i was born in a small town 4,000 meters above sea level in the peruvian andes, close to the sun. i have had the opportunity to get where i am and to have the privilege of addressing this european parliament because of one thing: education. (applause) i know that my presence here may seem strange to many of you. here are some european parliamentarians who played me in the fight against dictatorship and corruption. i know that my presence here may seem strange to many, because after 500 years, thanks to teachers and education, there is in peru a president with an ethnic composition like this who, as a result of a statistical error, has become president of the republic. and from now on, i pledge to do everything in my power so that more women and men like me become presidents of peru. (applause) this reflection has to do with a state policy decision. i have come to ask my european friends: please, do not sell us weapons. i ask you, please, do not sell us planes, ships, tanks. let us re-prioritize our precarious public budget. when i took office last year, i made a promise to my people that i would not let them down. this year, 2002, i have decided to reduce military spending by 20 percent to refocus it on health and education for the poor in peru. and i'm going to do it for the next five years. (applause) i know you are tolerant and you will understand me. don't give us any milk. please don't give us your agricultural products, please... (applause)... because if you give us milk, give us wheat, it's unfair competition with peruvian farmers. (applause) with the love and admiration i have for this parliament, let me say quite frankly: the time has come to build a dual-carriageway commercial motorway. do what they ask us to do: open your markets. (applause) we are told that we should practice an open economy. yes, i agree. they say we should not subsidize our agriculture, i agree. but then they don't subsidize, then, their agriculture. open your markets. (applause) the reason is very simple, my dear friends, and i hope you will take it in the good sense of someone who admires this process of european integration: trade is work. if we can't get our products to market, we're gonna have more women and men out of work. if you ask us to do something that you don't practice, you're not going to help us; let's do it together. if we believe that globalization should be inclusive, let's join hands to include the poor in globalization, and one way to do that is to build a two-lane trade highway. i like equality. i know you do it with a lot of love. i know that in providing food aid you do so with a humanitarian sense, but let me tell you, with affection too, that the poor of latin america will be poor but have dignity. they don't want to be given crumbs, they just want to open their markets to place our products competing in quality and price. (applause) friends and friends, i have been given the opportunity to govern a country after ten years of a cruel dictatorship, associated with corruption, drug trafficking and arms trafficking. we have received a country with justified high social expectations. we've received a country with four years of recession. we have received a deinstitutionalized country. we have received a country that has lost faith in its politicians. can you imagine in europe having a prime minister or a president who walks out the back door of the government palace, hides under another nationality in japan, and resigns by fax? only in political surrealism can one imagine that. this fact has pierced the soul of the women and men of peru, who do not believe. and it is our responsibility to rescue faith and trust again. three days after taking over the presidency, there were already groups protesting in front of the government palace, a discharge of expectations. i am not here to sing any victory or triumphalism, but i can tell you that the economy has begun to grow in peru, that we have an economy with an inflation rate of less than 1%, that international reserves are at their highest level, that unemployment rates are beginning to fall slowly, although not quite as fast as we would like. and now i have the challenge that the macroeconomic achievements can be felt in the pocket. friends and friends, i am 56 years old and my path has been a long and difficult one, but i have learned that stones that do not kill, make stronger. today i'm here to share with you my personal conviction and to tell you that the most profitable investment that a family or a society like peruvian can make is to invest in the minds of its people. and that, as a christian, means investing in health, education and justice for the poor. investment in health and education, and you know this better than i do, is an investment that has high rates of return. the knowledge enterprise is a low-risk, long-term and highly mobile enterprise. populist governments may come and they will not be able to nationalize the knowledge that our people have. there may be over-privatizing governments coming and they may not be able to privatize what has been invested in the mind. today, at the end of this reflection, mr president, i just want to say that the time has come to work together to make freedom, democracy, respect for human rights and care for the environment not just a concern of latin america. today i want to share with you the reflection that the health of the global economy depends on the strength of democratic institutions and global security. the atlantic has shrunk. globalisation and competitiveness, using technology, must have a human face and be more inclusive. and we must achieve this through investment in health and education. mr president, i wanted to share these loose reflections with you, with you, ladies and gentlemen, because in april next year, in peru, the rio group countries will meet to examine specifically a proposal to find mechanisms to finance governance and democracy in latin america, to prevent the poor from beginning to lose hope in democracy. we have come to learn from the experience of the process of european integration. latin america is trying to build its own integration. the andean countries are trying to learn the lessons of this process that you are going through. we want an integrated andean community, a stronger latin america that serves as a partner for the european union, and i hope that at the rio meeting we can have observers from the european union so that, with their experience, they can inform us about this process. friends, by the privilege you have given us to share this reflection, i say to you that the millions of women and men around the world who today live on a dollar a day expect from the european union, from the industrialized countries, an effort to include the poor in the benefits of globalization by putting a human face on it, to allow democratic institutions not to be questioned and for the poor not to lose hope in democracy. (applause) i would like to thank
- i want to thank the president. he wonders, he said in his speech, if what he said was a distraction. rather, it was a call to action. we thank you for your message, mr president. i declare the formal session closed.
mr president, i understand it is not possible to request a change, but may one protest against a change made by the conference of presidents? today we should have been debating the napolitano report on the role of regional and local authorities in european integration. it is a vitally important issue, and parliament should have been ready to give its opinion on this to the convention before the end of this year. for example, this week the fisheries council is debating cod stocks and the common fisheries policy. scotland, which is hugely interested in that, at the moment has a walk-on role. the role of the regions in europe matters deeply to people all over europe and this parliament has, by a stitch-up between the big parties, declined to debate it, although we have had it before us since july. it is outrageous that this has been taken off the agenda.
mr president, this is a very acceptable suggestion, but there is a risk that, yet again, the members' general opportunity to question the commission at question time will be curtailed. will question time be extended by a compensatory period please?
mr president, on a point of order, whilst welcoming the forthcoming enlargement of the european union, i note that 1 january 2003 is the 30th anniversary of the accession of the united kingdom, ireland and denmark, each of which has made a distinctive contribution to this union. in britain the 30th anniversary is regarded as the pearl anniversary. some might regard britain as the grit in the oyster that has created the pearl. what is being done on 1 january to mark the 30th anniversary of the accession of these three great countries?
mr president, as you may be aware, there were a series of disgraceful riots in oldham in the summer of 2000, provoked by members of extreme right wing groups such as the british national party, the national front and combat 18. film footage that appears to be that compiled by the local police has got into the hands of the local british national party who are distributing it. apart from the understandable security concerns of those involved, the apparent collusion between members of the local police and the british national party can only cause concern to those who hope that the perpetrators on both sides will be dealt with by a system of justice that is blind to politics. i hope you will raise the matter with the british authorities.
mr president, on behalf of my group i congratulate mr bourlanges on the remarkable degree of consensus he has managed to build in the committee around the main proposals in his report. it is a difficult subject. as mr amato said, there is nothing quite as complex as simplification. in trying to address the issue of simplifying our hierarchy of acts in the european union, mr bourlanges has taken a very complex, difficult subject and tried to bring a certain rationality to it. for our part, we support his dual approach of, firstly, trying to rationalise the hierarchy by broadly defining three categories of acts: constitutional acts, legislative acts and implementing measures. there are obviously subcategories – we cannot simplify too much, unfortunately – but nonetheless there are these three main groupings. the other prong of his approach concerns the terminology or vocabulary, for instance regulations should in future be called 'laws' and directives in future should be called 'framework laws'. that seems sensible and would make our acts much more comprehensible to the public. i come to a point which is of particular importance, and which mr bourlanges touched on towards the end of his comments. it is this category of implementing act where we delegate the right to adopt certain types of act to the commission. there is already a problem of terminology about what we call these acts, but nonetheless when we, as parliament, and the council, as a legislative authority, delegate powers to the commission, currently exercised in the context of the comitology system, we need some fundamental change, some further steps forward on what has been agreed so far. mr bourlanges has indicated what we agreed in the committee, indeed amending his own original draft report, but coming to a text which will have a broad majority in this parliament. the position we agreed was that yes, we as a parliament, are willing – with the council – to delegate such implementing powers, provided that we have the opportunity to call them back where necessary. it is not that we want to immerse ourselves in all the technical details of implementing measures. it is not that we want to substitute ourselves for the executive, but we need the guarantee that we can call back the powers if we do not like the way they are being exercised by the commission. we have proposed that if either the council by a qualified majority, or parliament by a majority of its members – in other words, not a narrow majority on a thursday afternoon of 29 to 36 – decides to call back an implementing measure, then the commission must either withdraw the measure, or their original measure will be subject to the full legislative procedure under codecision to confirm, amend or repeal the act in question. this is a simple system, one that would enable us to delegate far more than we do now, but it will also ensure democracy and transparency. i commend it to the house.
mr president, mr bourlanges should be congratulated on having drafted a good report on an extraordinarily complex set of questions. it is a report which will be of great interest to the convention, which is itself studying these questions. the primary achievements are: firstly, to make a clearer distinction between legislative and executive acts; secondly, to rationalise the choice of the instruments available so that force will more clearly follow form and, thirdly, to bring in a clearer class of subordinate legislation which should contribute not only to the quality of primary legislation but also to the parliamentary scrutiny of what is passed. my main amendment on behalf of my group seeks to insist upon a separate amendment procedure for the second part of the constitutional treaty. it is essential that the policy chapters are susceptible to a softer form of revision than the existing unanimity, plus national ratification in all member states. if we fail to bring in such a softer procedure, it may never be possible to alter the political chapters. if the union insists on the same procedure for the first and second parts, what is the point of splitting the treaty in the first place? the ppe-de and pse groups used to support the lighter procedure and i trust that their spokesmen will be able to enlighten us as to why they now seem to have changed their minds.
mr president, i must begin by apologising for being delayed, thank to the vicissitudes of the european travel system. mr bourlanges's report is, in my view, an extremely virtuoso piece of work and, i must say, as an individual, i admire it very much. however, it reflects a very different tradition of political thinking from that in my own country. after all, what he has done is to create a theoretical template into which the workings of the european institutions and, in particular, certain aspects of the relationship between the european parliament and the other institutions should be inserted. i believe this is the wrong way around. rather, the best solution to the matters and problems he raises is to decide on the particular procedures, processes and mechanisms needed to handle most effectively the particular issues concerned and then to define and describe the workings of the european union in that way. quite regardless of the subject matter, some of which we conservatives like and some of which we do not, we shall be voting against the report because we believe it looks at its subject matter the wrong way around – in a way that we believe is wrong for europe.
mr president, you have given me the floor as rapporteur but in fact the name on the report is that of mrs damião. i would like to begin by sincerely thanking her for the hard work that she has done on this dossier. sadly, she is ill and is only slowly recovering. i know i speak for everyone when i say i wish her the fullest and speediest possible recovery. i would like to thank the council too for the adoption of a common position which strengthens the commission's original proposal and also incorporates a number of the european parliament's first reading amendments. parliament particularly welcomes the inclusion of a new point in the proposed directive to prohibit all activities exposing workers to asbestos fibres, except demolition work and disposal of waste products resulting from demolition and removal work. the whole thrust of the proposal is to protect workers engaged in those activities and repair work, which will bring workers into contact with asbestos locked up in the built environment for many years to come. it is with this in mind that in the committee on employment and social affairs we have adopted three amendments at second reading, designed to strengthen still further the common position. a quick word about each of those amendments: article 3(3) of the proposal derogates from important elements of the directive in respect of workers whose exposure is of a sporadic and low intensity. this was too open-ended for the employment committee and, therefore, we wanted to pin down that definition of sporadic and low intensity still further. amendment no 1 does this by specifying that member states, in accordance with their normal tradition and practice, will consult with both sides of industry and lay down practical guidelines for determining work of this kind. we think that is an important step in the right direction. amendment no 2 makes provision for breaks for workers obliged to wear individual breathing equipment because of their potential exposure. again, we think this is an important step. it is extremely uncomfortable to work for long periods in individual breathing equipment. the council had some resistance to amendment no 3 initially, but we felt it was important that we included a specific mention of sanctions and, in the end, we have included a text which has been used quite often in other social and employment dossiers in the past. we are quite pleased with that as well. overall, we have had very good cooperation with the danish presidency on this dossier – to such an extent that we feel we can reach agreement at second reading with the assurances we now have from coreper that the council will be willing to accept these three amendments adopted in the employment committee. it is my hope that, with these three amendments adopted and voted upon tomorrow, the danes can take this forward as an 'a' point on 20 december and they will be adopted very quickly. i say i hope that will be the case because the deadline for amendments on this dossier closed only a few minutes ago. i hope that no groups have taken advantage of that deadline to table amendments. if they have, i can say with absolute certainty that those amendments will not be carried in the house – we know that from the margins in the employment committee. but it would delay the adoption of this dossier beyond the danish presidency into the spring – the earliest would be march under the greek presidency. that would simply lead to a further delay of weeks, if not months, before this directive could be agreed. that would put back its final adoption and implementation within the european union and during that delay additional workers would inevitably be exposed to asbestos fibres and, over time, might die as a consequence of that exposure. so i hope no groups will take advantage of that deadline – if any have, i hope they will, even at this late stage, withdraw those amendments. therefore, i would hope we could include this on the voting list tomorrow. everyone has had the amendments agreed in committee for a couple of weeks now in translation. that would allow the commission to deal with this dossier at its meeting tomorrow afternoon and that, in turn, would allow the danes to deal with it on 20 december. if we do not find that additional amendments have been tabled or if they are withdrawn, i would ask you, mr president, to use your good offices to have this added to the voting list tomorrow lunchtime.
mr president, i wish to thank mrs damião for all her work and i hope that she will get well soon. every year 4 500 people die from asbestos-related diseases in the uk alone. it is predicted that 250 000 will die in the european union of these diseases in the next 35 years. medical and scientific evidence demonstrates that there is a real need for this directive. i am delighted that the production and marketing of asbestos will be banned across the eu from 2005. thankfully, it has already been banned in the uk. however, there are still millions of tonnes of asbestos in europe's buildings throughout the european union. those buildings will have to be demolished at some point, and the asbestos will have to be removed, repaired or maintained, with the consequent effect on the health and safety of all those asbestos workers. i welcome the fact that this directive will lower the exposure limit values for asbestos. i emphatically support the three amendments mr hughes has talked about. however, i was extremely disappointed that the committee on employment and social affairs changed its mind after first reading; my amendments, which were not accepted, would have halved the exposure limit value. the committee's reasoning, as i understand it, was that, since the council had not accepted my amendments, there was no point in going to conciliation as it would not have accepted them in future. however, we know from experience that the council quite often changes it mind during the conciliation procedure, and it seems a great shame that we did not pursue those amendments. had it saved just one asbestos worker's life, it would have been worth it. nevertheless, i decided against retabling the amendments because i did not have the support of the committee on employment or the other groups in this house. even though i would have liked to have seen the directive go further, it is still a very good directive and will save asbestos workers' lives across the eu. for that reason, i will advise my group to vote for this directive, because it is greatly needed.
mr president, like my colleague, mrs thorning-schmidt, i was looking forward to a midnight speaking slot, as this is a health and safety issue! it is quite symbolic that we are speaking about this matter at a reasonable time because it goes so much further than just health and safety. this morning in the united kingdom, in our flagship news programme, the today programme, unusually the question of asbestos was raised at another reasonable hour. it was raised because of the matter that mrs thorning-schmidt raised, namely the implementation of this directive. so effective has the work been on this particular directive and matter, and so effective is the way the debate has gone and the agreement between the political groups that member states are now looking carefully at the way we implement the directive. this morning the health and safety executive set out for the united kingdom exactly how this directive would be implemented, the way that even small- and medium-size enterprises would find a way through this health and safety legislation. it is important; it has huge agreement, but we must also understand the real dangers. not only will the member states start to implement this – and we must monitor it carefully – but candidate countries are using asbestos at a level we can only estimate, but it is quite a dangerous level. so we must set the tone through implementation of this directive, pay tribute to the way parliament has discussed this and ensure that we in the eu member states and the candidate countries make something of this directive to reflect the level of debate in this house.
mr president, my group takes a rather different view from that of the last speaker. we believe that it is right for parliament to be consulted. we believe that in a number of areas which are contentious – for example, the dangers of non-ionising radiation – not enough is known within the science for us to pass this by. my group will also support the amendment, which other colleagues and i have signed in the name of the socialist group, for the deletion of paragraph 4. why do we do that? not because we necessarily disagree with the scientific committee on the issue of whether radiation can be safe for foodstuffs, but because it is not the whole story. the question is, why is this being done? is it really for the benefit of the consumer? is it something for which there is a consumer demand? if that was the case, we would not have as many cases as there are, certainly in my country, of illegal and covert irradiation. this has been carried out because they do not want consumers to know about it. they particularly do not want people to know about and reflect upon the trade which is more concerned with cost-cutting than with the end product in terms of consumer satisfaction. mrs breyer referred to shrimps being taken from one market to another, peeled in one continent and brought back to another. this is not due to safety concerns or the attractiveness of the product: it is all about the profits that go into this business. in the light of the commission's options as presented, we, like the rapporteur, take the view that the list should not be further extended at this stage. the onus of proof continues to be on those who wish to do these things. the proof has not yet been provided.
mr president, i rather liked the introduction from the commissioner on this. i thought he got it right, with one exception: he was misreading paragraph 3. it is not as negative as he suggests. the original text from mrs breyer, which welcomes the commission's suggestion that the current list be regarded, has now become 'notes the commission's suggestion that the current list could be regarded'. that has been changed quite significantly. you need to look at all the changes that took place in committee. after all, food has been treated with ionising radiation for some 50 years, as the rapporteur rightly said. in my country, the uk, products include vegetables, fruit, cereals, poultry, fish, shellfish – not too many frogs’ legs! all that range, to a certain degree, is given this treatment. different countries have different lists. the common ground between us is that it must not pose a health hazard, is of benefit to consumers and is labelled. if there is a need and if it is safe, then why not? that is the committee's broad view. well, it is safe. the who says so. the eu scientific committee on food says so, and it therefore is an element of consumer protection in itself. there is a need, for instance, in hospitals, to protect the food of some very vulnerable patients from dangerous bacteria. it can protect food from contamination. what it cannot do is to reverse contamination or putrefaction in food. the commission came forward with a perfectly sensible communication – a discussion paper – with its options of the current eu list, plus shrimps and frogs’ legs, of the current wider member states' list, or of the current eu list alone. i suspect the answer is somewhere around the first and second options, but we are not at this stage dealing with the legislative proposal. the commission is in listening mode. we needed cool, calm reflection on this. that is a thousand miles from the threat of armageddon that we saw in the original report, with spectres of dangers, such as the long journeys that are actually of benefit to the developing countries in exporting their goods. the picture of the radioactive sources posing safety risks and risks to security through the acquisition of radioactive materials by terrorists seeking to make dirty bombs has been banished from the committee's view. we are looking for something a little more measured. the report in its original form was more like the description of the merovingian dynasty as despotism tempered by assassination. the reality is that we have a process that is safe if used properly. it can bring benefits and it should be considered carefully with proper risk assessment and risk management, but without scaremongering. the amendments that mrs grossetête and i proposed and the committee supported bring this report back to where the commission might prefer it to be.
commission. – mr president, i am grateful to parliament, and in particular the temporary committee on foot and mouth disease, for its hard work in responding to the lessons to be learned from the 2001 foot and mouth epidemic. in particular i wish to thank mrs redondo jiménez for her effective and objective chairing of the committee, the rapporteur, mr kreissl-dörfler, for a balanced, straightforward and future-oriented report, and the secretariat of the committee. my services and i followed your work very closely. we have attended all your meetings, hearings, missions and discussions and have given evidence and support whenever required. i am confident that you will find that the views of parliament are strongly reflected in the commission's policy response to foot and mouth disease. i will now turn to the key conclusions and recommendations in your report. first, the international dimension of community policy on fmd; secondly, the single market issues that arise and, thirdly, control measures. on the international dimension, i note the serious concern that poor controls on imports from third countries may have led to last year's outbreak and the calls for these controls to be strengthened. i wish to make a very clear distinction between illegal introduction and legal imports. illegal actions are obviously, by their nature, very difficult to eliminate. the commission has, however, made proposals within the framework of the hygiene package to withdraw exemptions from the strict animal health conditions and control procedures for imports. we have also adopted a decision to introduce tougher rules on the personal import of meat and milk products by travellers arriving in the eu from the majority of third countries. our awareness campaign in relation to this measure will begin on 1 january 2003. as for control on legal imports, the evidence indicates that community import conditions and controls at external borders have been effective. prior to last year's outbreak, the eu was broadly fmd-free for almost a decade. during that time hundreds of thousands of tonnes of fresh-meat products were safely imported. these imports included large quantities from disease-free regions in south america, where fmd is endemic and vaccination is practised. the outbreak last year could not have originated in south america as the o1 pan-asia strain of the virus is unknown in that continent. calls for a ban on such imports must be viewed in this light, yet such calls continue to be made. i find it difficult not to conclude that protectionist interests are involved here and may lie behind these demands. certainly, we must continue to insist on strict controls. we must equally reject pressures to turn them into thinly – or not so thinly – disguised barriers to trade. we must continue to pursue the eradication of fmd on an international level. to this end, we collaborate closely with international organisations, such as the fao and the oie, and will continue to do so. i was deeply concerned to read some of the proposed modifications to the report, which suggested measures that would dismantle the european single market. i therefore congratulate the committee on rejecting most of these suggestions and on its pro-single-market stance. as you are aware, most of our animal health legislation is in the form of directives. this approach provides sufficient flexibility for member states to implement harmonised measures. however, shortcomings in implementation have certainly contributed to the magnitude of the 2001 fmd epidemic. the commission has devoted much energy towards improving legislation where necessary and to reinforcing official controls in the community. one of the key features of the uk epidemic was the huge number of frequently unrecorded movements of animals. the commission has submitted a proposal to reinforce controls on the movement of animals. this proposal in particular introduced for sheep – as regards breeding and production – a mandatory residence of 30 days prior to despatch to another member state. it also limits the number of assembly operations in assembly centres, approved under more stringent animal health requirements. this has attracted the support of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy and of parliament. the commission has proposed to the council a major revision of the animal health and sanitary conditions applying to staging points where animals are rested for welfare reasons whilst in transit. the outbreak of fmd in the netherlands can be directly linked to such a staging point, in france. pending the outcome of the technical working groups in the council, the standing committee on the food chain and animal health unanimously supported a commission proposal to extend the strict measures adopted during the fmd crisis until the middle of next year. movement controls can only be truly effective if there are reliable identification systems in place. it is clear that the major weakness in this respect is in relation to sheep. the current provisions and, in particular, their implementation by member states have proved to be insufficient to enable the veterinary authorities to trace animals. the commission is making a new proposal for a regulation to require individual identification of sheep, with the option of future electronic identification. i hope the european parliament will also support this proposal. i should also mention another major development, the mid-term review of the common agricultural policy. the outcome of the review will have a decisive influence on the future direction of agricultural production in the eu. this in turn cannot be divorced from the health and welfare of animals. one of the features of the mid-term review is the heavier emphasis on quality rather than quantity. i welcome this trend from a consumer perspective. but it should also assist from the perspective of disease avoidance and control. regarding vaccination, the huge numbers of animals slaughtered and destroyed during the outbreak last year had a profound impact on public opinion. we cannot ignore this. in fact, we have fully to take into account the deeply held views of our citizens. our approach to fmd has to adapt accordingly. clearly, the rapid slaughter and disposal of infected or susceptible animals must be an important element in our disease control strategy. emergency vaccination must also play a central role, as appropriate to the circumstances. there have been deep misunderstandings over the role of vaccination and the commission's own position on this issue. i do not propose to repeat today what i have already said on this matter. my remarks now are therefore confined to future policy. the commission remains of the view that prophylactic vaccination of the entire susceptible livestock population or even particular species is not advisable for sound scientific, technical and economic reasons. the situation in the eu cannot be compared with the endemic fmd situation in south america or elsewhere. fmd is not endemic in the eu, and prophylactic vaccination is not appropriate in the eu. the commission takes the view that emergency vaccination should, however, be moved to the forefront of the response mechanism in the event of future outbreaks. the means are now available to detect infection in a vaccinated population and the commission – now supported by the oie – actively pursues further improvement of these tests. the forthcoming commission proposal for a council directive on fmd will reflect this position on emergency vaccination in line with the recent modifications made to the fmd chapter in the animal health code. but we must not be under any illusions: vaccination is not a miracle cure to solve all our problems. while it must play a much more important future role, it cannot serve as an excuse to weaken our efforts to keep fmd out of the eu, nor can it fully obviate the need for difficult measures in the event of future outbreaks. i will now turn to contingency planning. there are many lessons to be learned from the events of last year, but they are not necessarily new. the fact remains that success in avoiding future outbreaks – or eradicating them if they do occur – will depend on well prepared contingency plans, the main elements of which i outlined to the committee last september. contingency plans must be regularly reviewed, updated and tested by periodic simulation exercises. the lessons of the outbreak of last year are virtually identical to those of similar outbreaks in the past. the challenge is to act on these lessons. delayed by the outbreak last year, my services have now completed the inspections of implementation of the approved contingency plans and will continue to monitor the implementation of a whole package of measures adopted at community level for the prevention and control of major epidemic diseases. in this regard, let me emphasise that i reject the criticism of the commission at paragraph 54 of your report relating to commission inspections of contingency plans in member states. the food and veterinary office will continue to play a decisive role in this process of review and the commission will ensure that it can deliver the required services, even in an enlarged union, within the reserves allocated by the budgetary authority. i should like to mention the sensitive issue of compensation for disease-related expenditure incurred by member states. my services have carried out audits in the uk and the other member states concerned. payments to the member states will be in conformity with the results of these audits. moreover, the european court of auditors is preparing a separate report on the financial aspects of the outbreak. i have taken note of your request for harmonisation of the different compensation schemes applied in member states. i should recall, however, that the commission is bound to act on the basis of council decision 90/424. the commission has now finalised the terms of reference for an external review of the current compensation schemes and the elaboration of possible solutions for the future. but we should not be under any illusion that veterinary fund compensation should be made available to all indirectly affected members of the rural community. to conclude, may i praise once again the valuable role played by your committee as regards its contribution to the commission's approach to fmd. much work remains to be done, and the commission's proposal for a new directive on fmd will reach parliament very soon. i trust that the assessment of our proposal by parliament will benefit from the expertise acquired during the work of the temporary committee.
mr president, firstly i should like to thank mr byrne for his statement and all those involved in drawing up this report. when i first brought it to the attention of parliament, i had no idea that it was going to be the success that it has been. it has been a positive achievement, not just for the people of the united kingdom, and not just for the people of the european union, but also for the european parliament. there were many cases, as we travelled across the european union in our quest to find out what had happened, where people said ‘thank goodness you are organising a public inquiry’. this is the only true public inquiry into foot and mouth. it gave the general public an opportunity to voice its opinion. that is what it was about and what i had hoped to achieve. i shall read from a letter we received from the national foot and mouth association. ‘may it suffice to say that without this report, many would not have been able to deal with the epidemic and its effects.’ the epidemic had a catastrophic effect on people’s lives right across the european union, not just those in the agricultural business, but many people in the whole of the rural community. at this point i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr kreissl-dörfler, mrs redondo jiménez, the chairman, and the commission which helped us tremendously in the foot and mouth subcommittee, working with us every single day. i would also like to thank those people who submitted evidence to the foot and mouth subcommittee. we covered businesses right across the european union. there were people from the united states and many other countries. on one occasion some of my colleagues were sitting there almost with tears in their eyes while listening to the evidence being given. one lady summed it up when she said ‘they have taken away our dreams’. that was a direct reference to the british government. this must never happen again. this is why this temporary committee was set up. yes, the report has been critical of the british government and, yes, it has attacked it on many aspects, but if the government made mistakes we, as a committee, had to look into it. the report would have been wrong if it had not looked into it and then made a judgement because the whole principle of the inquiry was that we needed to know what had gone wrong – and things had gone wrong – and then put forward proposals. we needed to see how we could put in amendments to the proposals that mr byrne is going to bring out. i look forward with great interest to what mr byrne will say. i have one criticism of what he has just said – and here we will have to agree to disagree. in the united kingdom, we still only have two dogs – in fact they are still in training – to check imports, compared with the 3 000 people in the united states to cover illegal imports. mr byrne said that he was against any proposal that would control imports from countries where fmd is endemic. i would say to him that we still do not know where this outbreak originated. we do not know exactly how it was brought into the united kingdom. one thing we found out was that the us, australia and new zealand still do not have foot and mouth and they control their imports wholly. i will sum up by saying that we need to change legislation, but we need to change attitudes – welfare, transport, imports. i know the commission values the findings of this report and i look forward with great interest to its own report.
mr president, i wish to congratulate the rapporteur on his report, which is extremely important. it is vital that parliament gives a very strong signal that vaccination should be a tool of first resort in any future outbreak. i am very glad that our committee has come to that conclusion. i am also glad that we support a change in the law so that there is no automatic incentive to slaughter rather than to vaccinate. we recognise that in britain over ten million animals were slaughtered – many unnecessarily – because of the overriding priority that was given to the narrow economic goal of regaining export status as quickly as possible. it is right and proper that we make constructive proposals for the future handling of foot and mouth outbreaks. however, it is also right – where it is called for – that we are strongly critical of the past handling of foot and mouth outbreaks. i, therefore, disagree with the rapporteur that it is inappropriate and unjustified to criticise the uk government. such criticism reflects the evidence we heard, and if we do not learn from the past, there is no guarantee of any better action in the future. for that reason, i am saddened by attempts from the british government to water down this report, to rewrite history and effectively to whitewash the past. amendments by the pse group follow closely the briefing that all uk meps have received from the british government, that argues, for example, that there is no evidence for allegations of violations of animal welfare. that is untrue. i would remind them of evidence given by the royal society for the prevention of cruelty to animals to the national audit office inquiry, which says: 'in many cases there was very good circumstantial evidence that an offence had been committed.' the government says that a veterinary inspector worked closely at every slaughter. in fact there was often one vet supervising ten slaughters simultaneously – an impossible thing to do. the government denies that farmers were intimidated in connection with the culls and it asks for evidence. we have evidence in plenty. i would remind them that the committee went to knowstone in devon precisely to gather that kind of information. they allege that the lessons learnt in the inquiry show that the contiguous cull was effective in curbing the disease – again, untrue. the national audit office demonstrated that the epidemic had already peaked before the contiguous cull policies could have had any effect. they allege that the firebreak or pre-emptive culling was legal – again, not true. it is made very clear in the uk's new contingency plan that firebreak or pre-emptive culling requires 'the passage of the new animal health bill'. that bill had not been passed last year and, therefore, such provision did not exist for legally enforceable mandatory firebreak culls. people would have a lot more respect for this government if it could just bring itself to admit that it got things wrong. it matters, because for as long as it does not admit that, then there can be no guarantee that in the event of another outbreak the government will not act in the same way again. i hope that our report is one step in the process of ensuring that such devastation can never be allowed to happen again in the united kingdom or anywhere in the european union. (applause)
mr president, whether it is a jumbo jet crash in an isolated scottish village, a tanker wreck on an ecologically sensitive coastline, a terrorist bombing or a major civil disorder, the effectiveness of a response depends almost entirely on advance planning. the same applies to a major epidemic of a commercially important animal disease such as foot and mouth. in this context, however, the commission had assumed statutory responsibility for dictating the nature of planning undertaken by member states – the so-called contingency planning. it should also have monitored its adequacy. therefore, notwithstanding the obvious and manifest failing of the british authorities in this respect, clearly the commission's performance was disastrous. rightly, the temporary committee had identified this lamentable lack of diligence on the part of the commission. yet what is missing from this report is any indication of why the commission failed so manifestly in its duty. i rather regret therefore that the temporary committee has chosen to draw attention to, and i quote, ‘the high quality of the commission's work in controlling the crisis... stressed by the national veterinary authorities of member states concerned’. i would suggest therefore that, before leaping into the usual role of telling everyone else what is going wrong, the commission this time spends its time examining why, when the chips were down, it performed so badly.
mr president, bad farming practice was the root cause of the foot and mouth outbreak. pigs were fed improperly treated swill, which was bad farming practice. diseased pigs were not reported – bad farming practice. neighbouring sheep became infected. bad farming practice was compounded by stupidity when pigs which no longer showed physical symptoms but could still transmit the disease were sent to an abattoir. other animals became infected and this delayed the identification of the source of the outbreak. the outbreak farm was so severely infected that it was six months before it was safe to disinfect it. bad farming practice led to a situation where the disease was spreadeagled over 57 farms in 16 counties by the time its presence was confirmed. the result was the worst foot and mouth outbreak ever recorded, well beyond the contingency planning of any member state. the report does not shirk the horrendous consequences to farmers and to rural businesses, the heartache, the trauma and the financial losses. nor does the report shirk the operational problems faced by government. no one pretends that there were not mistakes of policy and failures in implementation, but the lessons-to-be-learned inquiry clearly shows that decisions made were justified by the available evidence at the time. the report is particularly good – indeed it is its main strength – on the measures needed to combat any future outbreak. of special importance is the need for effective monitoring of animal movements and traceability. that said, regrettably the report contains errors of fact. these relate to the legality and effectiveness of the contiguous cull. they also relate to allegations of animal welfare abuses and to biosecurity lapses allowing further spread of the disease. eight amendments have been tabled to correct these errors. as the chair said so revealingly during the committee vote, we are not dealing with reality. hearsay and hindsight have been the chief witnesses. the reality is that the contiguous cull was legal. it was legal under uk law; it was legal under european law. the cull was an essential weapon in bringing the disease under control. vaccination would not have worked in the uk situation. the reality is that the heroic efforts of government officials, veterinarians, farmers, police, the military and many others brought the disease under control more quickly than the smaller outbreak in the uk which occurred in 1966-68. that was the reality.
mr president, i too would like to repeat all the thanks that have been conveyed to all those involved in this excellent committee of inquiry, particularly the chairperson, mrs redondo jiménez, and mr kreissl-dörfler, both of whom played exemplary roles in the whole process. i would also like to register a note of thanks to the countless people in the united kingdom who helped organise our visits to the various parts of the uk during the course of our investigations. it was quite a challenge for many of them to deal with this rabble of argumentative poly-lingual meps who suddenly descended upon them, but on the whole those visits went extremely well. the report, as many speakers have said, is judicious and balanced. it is bold and forthright in exactly the right areas, particularly on vaccination and import controls. the report conveys some very clear messages about what should be avoided in the future and what should be done in the horrific eventuality that another outbreak occurs. on both of those points, it is clear that the report has already had an influence on the shift in public policy which is starting in the united kingdom. i would join mr sturdy and others in saying that the response, particularly on the issue of import controls – certainly within the united kingdom – is still too slow. insufficient resources have been allocated to that important task. i see that the pse group and the rapporteur have tabled some amendments to protect the reputation of the united kingdom government. i would only suggest to my colleagues that they should not be so over-sensitive. it is simply part and parcel of the independence of a committee of inquiry such as this that there should be some critical remarks. frankly, it is an aspect of independence that the government has deliberately shunned by refusing to hold its own public inquiry in the uk. some of the amendments which have been retabled seem to be just plain wrong. i pick out arbitrarily an amendment which says that there was no evidence of health or environmental problems arising from some of the burial sites in the south-west. i would invite my colleagues, for instance, to see and visit, as i have, the viridor site near kingsteignton in the south-west and then come back and say to me with any real confidence that they think there are no environmental or health effects. if they speak to any of the residents in that locality, they will see what a silly amendment that is. finally, i would ask colleagues to pay particular attention to paragraph 128 of the draft report. the eldr group will be asking for a split vote to delete the last sentence of paragraph 128. that last sentence suggests that any compensation in future should be conditional on appropriate insurance mechanisms being in place. we are very keen that a study should be made on the feasibility and the pros and cons of insurance systems, but we do not feel it is appropriate at this stage to make any future compensation automatically dependent upon the existence of insurance schemes.
mr president, i wish to say at the outset that the committee is very grateful that we secured this inquiry. as we are all aware, the initial decision to hold an inquiry was not without its difficulties. it was opposed by the uk government, which also expressed misgivings as to the duration of the inquiry. it felt that six months was sufficient. however, we would never have accomplished what we did had we not been allowed a 12-month duration. that was vital for us to undertake the task asked of us. on the matter of the three-kilometre contiguous culling, in my own nation, wales, up to 700 farms were culled of all their animals and only on 60 of those farms were there proven cases of the foot and mouth epidemic. i stress this because, in some of the opposing amendments, the socialist group implies, and i quote their justification: 'there was no evidence that animal welfare was violated in more than a handful of instances.' if animals were culled on this scale with no proven blood-tested evidence, it was a clear and blatant violation of animal welfare, and on a large scale. i am disappointed at mr byrne's unwillingness to countenance or even research into a prophylactic routine vaccination in future, and this at a time when the commission has advertised in farming publications – daily and weekly in the uk – all sorts of routine vaccinations to tackle all sorts of epidemics and diseases. on the matter of the legality of the cull in the uk, it is quite unacceptable that, based on two court cases alone in britain, the cull had a legal basis. in future we must have proper contingency planning. it is quite astounding that the government of the day in the uk had no tried and tested contingency plan in place. i also have grave doubts as to whether we have had sufficient consultation with civil society and simulation exercises to ensure that, if there were an outbreak tomorrow morning, we would all know what to do and how to respond to it. the epidemic in the uk was a catalogue of errors. regions like my own had no idea at all how to tackle the situation and no powers devolved to them to undertake their task of tackling it effectively. in the interests of communities everywhere throughout europe, it is vital that the same mistakes are not allowed to happen again.
mr president, as someone who was at the forefront in instigating the setting up of this committee, i would personally like to thank president cox for his invaluable help and all those members who have made this report and this committee such a resounding success. i would particularly like to thank mr kreissl-dörfler for his unstinting work, his readiness to listen and his even-handed approach. the visits to the uk and the netherlands allowed us to listen to everyone who was affected. i believe that the european parliament has delivered what my own parliament in westminster would not. what we have in this document is a fair and balanced report on the terrible devastation and suffering the disease brought to my country. let us not forget that foot and mouth disease is no respecter of borders. this blight could have appeared in any european country and could still hit at any time in the future. looking at the situation in the uk, the british government quite simply got it wrong. mr adam may try and blame everything on the farmers as usual – and he talked much about the farmers getting it wrong – but what about the government getting it wrong? there is no denying that mistakes have been made. that could be accepted by british farmers – we all make mistakes. what is not acceptable is that this government still refuses to accept they got it wrong and still refuses to apologise to those who suffered. look at mr adam's amendments and look at the latest british government briefing – they have learnt nothing! this disease did not just affect farmers, it affected hotels and tourism; it affected butchers and traders across europe. we must not allow this terrible slaughter of 10 million animals to happen again. i am pleased that this report contains a sensible and workable approach to vaccination in the future. our visit to the netherlands demonstrated the great benefits of emergency vaccination. this would remove the necessity for the huge funeral pyres and burial pits that were hallmarks of the british government's handling of the outbreak. those unforgettable pictures must stand as a lasting reminder of what could happen again if we do not learn the lessons of this most terrible disease. i am pleased that this report sets out plans for the future. it is vital that we have a workable and effective contingency plan in place. this report goes a long way to developing a positive approach for the whole of europe. the european commission has worked hand in hand with the committee, and it is no coincidence that tomorrow it will come forward with its proposals for the future. i commend commissioner byrne's team for their work. i would make one final plea to the british government: please listen and accept this report so we can plan for the future. the suffering caused last year by foot and mouth disease was simply unacceptable and it must never be allowed to happen again. i hope you will all support this report and the measures contained within it. europe's farmers and europe's rural communities deserve to know that they are valued. they deserve to know that europe's politicians are prepared. i hope that you will give this your support today. (applause)
mr president, no one on the temporary committee will ever forget the aftermath of that great foot and mouth plague of 2001. when we travelled the country we talked to the victims, those who could not be compensated, as well as those who were, those who could restock and begin again, hopefully in a more balanced and less intensive system of livestock production, and those whose lives were utterly changed, who had, as mr sturdy said, lost their dreams. i would like to be able to agree with every word in this report and i salute the rapporteur's attempt to produce, as the commissioner called it, a balanced, straightforward and future-oriented account. where should it begin? it has to begin with the outbreak itself, with what actually happened and with the apportionment of blame. a balanced report is one in which all those responsible accept some measure of the blame, including the uk government. i would point out to the house that there have been five separate reports in the uk alone, two by local authorities severely affected by the crisis. there have also been reports by the national farmers union and others who were participants in the whole tragedy. so to say that this is the first time we have looked at this is quite wrong. mr kreissl-dörfler has produced an objective account and one which seeks to be fair in its allocation of blame and responsibility. i am sorry that some of the amendments that have been tabled run counter to that intention. we should not be attempting 20:20 hindsight. we should not be using shock logic to invent legal rules that were allegedly broken. when i hear mrs lucas speaking i am reminded of a russian historian who once said to me that the wonderful thing about the past is that things are always changing there. you never know what is going to happen. the past is being rewritten here. that is not right. some of the allegations in mrs lucas's speech were factually incorrect and should not be in this report at all. i prefer to look ahead. i would like to think that we can salute others who have not been mentioned so far in this debate, in the blame culture in which it has been shrouded. firstly, the foreign vets, more than 2 000 of whom came to the uk and tried to help us solve the problems with the outbreak. also the farmers, the officials, the police who struggled through those terrible days in march and april before we knew where and how we could bring this under control. let us look ahead now: at inspections, movements of animals dead or alive, a fresh look at different kinds of agriculture, based on accountability, lessons learned – yes, including the lesson in objectivity which mr kreissl-dörfler and the chairwoman tried to bring to our committee and which persuaded most, though perhaps not all of us. finally, i would like to thank the commissioner. it is right that it should be this commissioner with his concerns and priorities who is replying in this debate. essentially, it is a matter, not just of animal health, but of human health and welfare as well.
mr president, as a representative for cumbria – the area most affected by this disease in europe – to think back 20 months is to remember the distress of farmers who, in many cases, saw their animals being slaughtered – although there was no evidence that they were infected – and, in particular, the distress of those who made their living from tourism in the lake district. all too often the cries of those people whose economy depended on tourists and whose contribution to the economy was worth six times that of the farmers went totally unheeded. we saw the pictures on our television sets: visitors were turned away because of the mass culling; animal welfare concerns were being disregarded; the fires were making a nonsense of the policies adopted by this european union in its attempts to address the concerns about dioxins spreading in our atmosphere. people were really upset by the illogicality of the situation: mountains, hills and footpaths were closed for no reason. at the same time, you could walk along a country road and the sheep and lambs would stick their heads out through the fences. people felt a sense of anger and despair. this must never happen again. i am glad that this report makes clear that the uk government's policy was wrong, and that we should be thinking about emergency vaccination if this situation occurs again. i also believe that, in order to take account of the wider considerations and in view of the relatively small role which farming has in our economy these days, we also need to look at preventive vaccination as a long-term solution to difficulties of this kind.
mr president, firstly i would like to add my congratulations to the rapporteur and to all involved in bringing about this report. it is a balanced report and has been a good initiative. it has been good for this parliament because it has proved that it could produce a report that the national parliament was afraid to. i would like to comment on one of the commissioner's remarks. he said that the effect was the same as other diseases or previous outbreaks of foot and mouth and we need to act, but the question is how do we act? that is what has to be addressed. this report and investigation brought home the wider effects. coming, as it did, on the back of bse in the united kingdom, this disease wrecked the rural economy and destroyed many farmers in the uk. i come from northern ireland, and mrs doyle has referred to the fact that she comes from the republic of ireland. the reality is that we were very lucky. let us not underestimate this. we were not all that good, but we were very lucky. a load of sheep left longtown market, went all the way across the irish sea, were dropped off at larne in the middle of the island of ireland and it took a long time to detect them. let me be clear: we need better controls there as well. what will remain with us is the sight on our tv screens of the burning pyres. it brought home to us how horrific the situation was. there has to be a better way of controlling it. ring vaccination has to be the way in which we look at trying to control it. we should put in place more resources and more finance for research and development to achieve a traceable vaccine, so we know that animals have been vaccinated. i will finish by re-echoing what has already been said on border controls: border controls are totally inefficient. meat is being brought into the european community, into the united kingdom and other countries, and it is not being caught. we are going to have to deal with this as other countries have done. they have been more effective than we have been. we must ensure that our ports and airports are properly controlled in every way. the truth is that this disease can strike anywhere and at any time. i hope it does not, but we must be ready if it does.
mr president, in this chamber we are very frequently engaged in debating what we consider to be the great political issues. but i seem to remember that when we were elected in 1999 our greatest concern was how we made our debates relevant to our electors. i want to tell you that the area that i represent here in parliament – the constituency of wales – is a country that was markedly affected by the foot and mouth outbreak. this debate is very relevant to people in my constituency who suffered from what has been described as a community tragedy. there was an impact on a really human scale. we sometimes do not recognise the sense of isolation that was felt by many farmers and by other people living in rural areas because of the devastating economic and other impacts of this outbreak. i therefore want to begin by thanking the committee for visiting welshpool, builth wells and sennybridge and meeting people within my constituency who said to mr kreissl-dörfler that the european parliament was the only official body that came to listen to their views. that addresses, in my view, the issue of the relevance of the european parliament. setting up the committee has been a worthwhile exercise. secondly, i am sorry we had such difficulty in establishing the committee. i am sorry it was such a struggle. i am sorry that the british government was so anxious about its own position – that there might be any criticism of its position – that we struggled for some six months to get the committee up and running. we all recognise that it was just one group that was opposed to setting up the committee. mr kreissl-dörfler, though coming from that group, has been a paragon in approaching this issue in a non-political way. his report is first-rate. his report has endeavoured to address the real core issues that are of concern. contrary to the views of the people who said that this exercise was going to be irrelevant, commissioner, we are looking forward to your statement tomorrow, and to having a statement that addresses the concerns outlined by the committee that have emerged in the course of the last year. others have touched upon the details. i do not want to do that. all i want to say is this: this is a report that had almost universal support in committee. i am sorry that some additional amendments have been tabled because we should cling to the consensus that is within the report. it is the best example, in my view, of the european parliament addressing the concerns of voters in a practical way. it is a huge example for the future relevance of the european parliament. it is a tragedy that at the last minute there are some people who still feel it is appropriate, rather churlishly, to protect the reputation of the uk government. we are engaged in much more important things than that. i ask you to look at the report as it came out of the committee and to respond accordingly, commissioner. (applause)
mr president, as some colleagues may know, i live in cumbria at the heart of last year's foot and mouth outbreak. i and many of my friends, neighbours and constituents lost our animals. for us the pyres were not on the television screen, they were over the garden fence. i would like to make one thing absolutely clear: the vast majority of those affected were good farmers whose husbandry bears no relationship to that of the few described by mr adam. because of my own involvement i have, quite rightly, not played any direct part in the inquiry's proceedings, but it seems clear to me that its findings make a valuable contribution to drawing the right lessons from the 2001 outbreak. i would merely like to make four comments. firstly, what occurred in cumbria, in the united kingdom – and i have said exactly the same in debates in the uk parliament and house of lords – was exacerbated by mistakes made by the united kingdom government's handling of the outbreak. secondly, while those whose physical assets were destroyed received compensation, those whose livelihoods were damaged to a similar extent by administrative measures introduced to fight the disease received nothing. this loss, which flowed directly from what the government was doing and was entirely foreseeable, was equally real. their contribution to the fight against the disease was equally valid. in my view, an injustice has been done to them. thirdly, the evidence now emerging in cumbria suggests that the public health consequences of the outbreak are much wider-ranging and much longer-lasting than was supposed at the time. i would like to end with an appeal beyond this house to the commission and the governments of the member states: learn the lessons of 2001. do not let other people go through what we did last year.
mr president, i also wish to thank the chairman and rapporteur of the committee, mrs redondo jiménez and mr kreissl-dörfler, who have been excellent in the way they have handled this committee. in particular, i thank them for allowing the committee to visit northumberland, in my region, where the disease originated. i do not have time to cover all the issues now but i want to point out in particular that it is very likely that the disease was caused by illegal imports of meat. one of my great concerns is that, although this is well known, we still do not have proper controls in place at our ports and airports to prevent further illegal meat imports. there is much anecdotal evidence in the uk that large amounts of illegal meat are still entering the country. i would ask the commissioner to address that in his response tomorrow, because it is a time bomb waiting to go off. the disease could easily happen again anywhere in europe. people were particularly grateful to have the opportunity to submit their comments to the committee members in person. never again must we see the enormous funeral pyres all over the landscape of the north-east of england, which had such a devastating effect on the tourist industry and all related industries, not just agriculture. above all, despite the efforts of some members of this parliament, i hope that we will learn the lessons from the outbreak of this disease and ensure that it never happens again.
mr president, i would like to request that the vote on the damião report on asbestos be added to the voting list today. it is a matter of urgency. we have only the three amendments before us that were voted in the committee on employment and social affairs. no new amendments have been tabled here in plenary. those amendments have been available for over two weeks in translation. if we can vote today, the college of commissioners, as i understand it, could consider the matter this afternoon. it can then be taken at council on friday of this week under the danish presidency. the danish presidency has worked very hard to agree these amendments with us, and this would allow us to close the dossier at second reading without going into conciliation. i hope it can be added to the voting list today.
- mr president, i wonder if it is possible to get a set of headphones. i do not appear to have a set at my desk and i must apologise to mrs thors, my finnish is not that great.
mr president, this concerns the translation into english of the term ‘loi organique’, which has been rendered as ‘organic law’. we are not very familiar with this concept in the english language. i note that the commission document – the so-called ‘penelope’ document – uses the term ‘institutional law’ for its english-language version, which is at least a little clearer. i propose that we harmonise our english-language terminology with that of the commission, which would make things clearer all around.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i think it addresses quite correctly a complex but urgent issue - that of bringing war criminals to justice in the european union. as a former home secretary of the united kingdom, mr kirkhope has a good understanding of the complexity of this issue and has demonstrated in his report the benefits of action at european level. the council text has been amended so that some articles which might have violated the subsidiarity rules (those concerning the regulation of investigations and prosecutions rather than the exchange of information) are now in line with that principle, at least in my view.
in writing. - the british conservative party does not believe that mutual recognition is necessary in this area. the forfeiture of rights should remain a matter requiring intergovernmental cooperation. the british conservative delegation therefore supports the rejection of the council proposal in this form.
mr president, british labour members voted against the report because our amendments to remove errors of fact were not carried. these errors remain in paragraphs 15, 22, 25, 26, 30, 31, 32 and 33. in addition, the following paragraphs contain statements which are not supported by the evidence and findings of the lessons to be learned and royal society reports: paragraphs 6, 16 and 25. the following paragraphs contain statements not in line with the balance of evidence presented to the committee or contain errors of fact of lesser importance than those to which amendments were tabled: paragraphs 3, 7, 9, 11, 20, 21, 34 and 57.
mr president, i voted against this report, not because i do not support the recommendations on the way forward in the event of another unfortunate outbreak of foot and mouth disease, but because of the basic inaccuracies in the preamble. i prefer to vote for fact and not fiction and, because certain people wish to obscure the truth with political fiction, i have voted against. it has been claimed that over 10 million animals were slaughtered during the foot and mouth outbreak but owners have only claimed compensation for 6.5 million. farmers, i know, are not slow in coming forward. there is no evidence of breaches in animal welfare legislation. if there was, surely there would have been prosecutions, since animal rights groups within the uk are amongst the most active in the world. finally, the report hints at breaches in environmental legislation due to such events as the burning of dead carcasses. the environmental agency within the uk carried out an investigation of the procedure used in the foot and mouth outbreak and concluded that there had been no breaches. the report is, therefore, unfortunately basically flawed.
mr president, on behalf of the european parliamentary labour party, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur for the fair, open-minded and assiduous way in which he has carried out his task. this report, when he looks ahead, is an excellent report and provides useful guidelines for future action. unfortunately, the committee and the plenary have chosen to amend the text in relation to what happened in the past, in such a way that my delegation found it impossible to support it and indeed voted against it. we strongly reject the questions about the legality of the culls because the courts in the united kingdom upheld their legality. we strongly reject the idea of breaches of animal welfare legislation because there have been no prosecutions as a result of investigations of those claims. we strongly reject the claims concerning breaches of environmental legislation because the environmental agency has conducted its assessment and come to the conclusion that there was no environmental harm. we reject the claim of biosecurity lapses because there was no evidence of the spread of infection from carcasses being moved or by official personnel. we reject the figure of 10 million animals slaughtered because farmers have only claimed for 6.5 million and this is a fantasy figure being used for political gain.
in writing. - while the report of the committee set up by the european parliament makes some important recommendations on how to improve the management of future foot-and-mouth disease outbreaks, some members are using their retrospective wit to launch totally unjustified attacks against the uk government. it is quite right that the report of the committee should underline the scale of what is the worst outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease the world has ever known. it should be remembered, however, that by the time the alarm was sounded, the disease had already affected 50 farms in 16 different counties. i am well aware of the devastation it has caused to so many people and communities in north yorkshire and beyond. i know that they need help to recover and assurances that, both in the uk and at european level, we will do everything we can to ensure that such a devastating outbreak never happens again. i hope that we will concentrate on these sensible and practical proposals put forward by the commission and other studies carried out on this disease - including the need to prevent the importation into the european union of infected meat and meat products.
in writing. - like my british labour colleagues in the pse group, i voted against this report. as chairman of the european parliament's intergroup on animal welfare and protection, i am of course particularly interested in the kreissl-dörfler report. i support the measures proposed in the report to prevent a similar foot-and-mouth disease outbreak in the future. i reject the attacks on the legality of the slaughter. although unfortunate, these cullings were at the time seen as the most effective measure to end the epidemic. it's very easy to show retrospective sagacity. the approach of the uk government to slaughter had been approved by the european commission. a report like this requires accurate data. when, for example, the statistics cited seem to contradict the official figures published in the united kingdom, this calls into question the broader aspects of this report. for this reason and with the reservations i have expressed earlier, i voted against this report.
in writing. - the foot-and-mouth disease outbreak has caused serious damage to my constituency in the east of england, and i had hoped that this report from the european parliament would do justice to the losses suffered by farmers, the tourism sector and our community as a whole. the way in which the committee of inquiry has carried out its task has given me hope that we can really help to learn from this disease, to combat it and perhaps even to prevent an outbreak of this magnitude from occurring in the future. however, as other members of the house have pointed out, the final report was subject to amendments tabled by parliament's political groups suggesting violations of the law which did not occur, while citing erroneous figures on the number of animals killed. i had hoped that this issue would be considered more important than a minor issue to gain political points. it didn't. in these circumstances, i am announcing that i will vote against this report in the final vote. i nevertheless continue to support the original recommendations which will guide our future legislation and ensure that europe plays a constructive role in the fight against future foot-and-mouth disease outbreaks. the people in my constituency expect no less.
in writing. - as a member of the british labour party in the european parliament, i will vote against this report. although it contains some interesting suggestions for preventing future outbreaks of foot-and-mouth disease, it is seriously flawed in a number of important respects. in fact, it is inaccurate in its references to the legality of the slaughter, alleged violations of animal welfare legislation, alleged violations of environmental protection legislation and biosecurity errors. it also states that 10 million animals were slaughtered, while the farmers report only 6.5 million. this report is so riddled with errors that it cannot be supported.
in writing. - i fully support the measures put forward in the report which would prevent any further outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease comparable to that which has devastated farming communities across the country, as well as in my own area of yorkshire and the humber. however, some of the elements contained in the report require some clarification. first, the slaughter was carried out in accordance with the legal provisions and after consultation with the european commission. secondly, the number of animals slaughtered should be the same as the one put forward by the farmers, that is to say 6.5 million instead of 10 million. thirdly, no criminal prosecution for violation of animal welfare legislation has been carried out and no environmental damage has been identified by the environmental protection agency. fourth, there is no evidence of spread of infection through carcasses during transport or by staff. since these points were not sufficiently clarified in the vote, and although i support the provisions to prevent further outbreaks of foot-and-mouth disease in the future, i have decided to vote against this report in the final vote.
in writing. i fully support the measures in this report to prevent any further outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease on a scale comparable to that experienced by the united kingdom and the west midlands region which i represent here. the report by mr kreissl-dörfler contains important guidelines which could be useful if future legislation were required to combat a new outbreak in any region of the european union. however, i reject a number of incorrect observations and conclusions in this report, in particular those relating to the legality of slaughter, alleged violations of animal welfare legislation, alleged violations of environmental protection legislation and biosecurity failures. since the farmers put forward the figure of 6.5 million animals slaughtered, i also reject the claim that 10 million animals were slaughtered during this epidemic. despite the many positive aspects of this report, i shall vote against it because of the points i have made above.
in writing. - the south-east of england was one of the first areas affected by the foot-and-mouth disease outbreak in the uk. as such, this report includes a large number of measures needed to prevent an outbreak of a similar scale in the future. however, several erroneous elements introduced by amendments with a strong political flavour distort this report. in particular: observations on breaches of animal welfare legislation. none of the complaints resulted in any prosecution. the failures in biosecurity. the investigations show that no infringement has been found. the slaughter declared illegal. the courts have ruled in favor of the government's action regarding the adjacent slaughter. this measure was considered necessary to stem the spread of the disease. the european commission was informed at all times. violations of environmental protection legislation the environmental protection agency has analyzed the matter and has not identified any environmental damage. in south-east england, labour mps believe that statistical errors and a political disinformation campaign have helped to paint an inaccurate picture of the epidemic and the uk government's fight to end it.
mr president, like other speakers this afternoon, i welcome the successful conclusion of this budget process. it is certainly one of the most peaceful that i have known and my congratulations on the excellent work done by our two rapporteurs. there are in any budget process successes and failures. we in our political group, as mr ferber has indicated, feel we have had more successes than failures in this budget process. three issues stand out, and i would like to mention them. the first refers to the improvement of the quality of budget execution. we insisted from the beginning that we should pick up on the commission, council and parliament declaration of december 2000, specifically looking to reduce outstanding commitments to a normal level by december 2003. to that effect, we suggested the appropriations for staff should be put in the reserve. as a result, we are now promised a document for the pdb 2004 setting out how we are going to eliminate abnormal outstanding commitments by the end of 2003. i think that we have some way to go, but this is a step in the right direction. secondly, so far as appropriate involvement of parliament in cfsp measures is concerned, what concerned us most was to how to get parliament fully involved in consultation and information on how the monies will be spent by the council. for that purpose, we withheld money in the reserve at first reading, so that we could have a proper negotiation with the council on second reading. and now we have a joint declaration in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement, setting up for the first time a way in which parliament will be fully involved in consultation and information, including in political dialogue on the cfsp. we also have put funds into the budget so that the commission can come forward with a study establishing cfsp priorities over the next five years. i very much hope that this study will be completed. last and not least is the question of successful implementation of the commission reforms. for my group, this is an essential point. we therefore suggested that we should have some overall view of this and, for that purpose, on first reading, we put 500 staff into the reserve – the additional posts requested. lo and behold, as a result of this, we now have a comprehensive report which i was just discussing with my colleagues – including commissioner kinnock this morning – observing that progress has indeed been made. but we would like it more widely known that progress has been made, but there are other methods under discussion in the council at the moment and decisions to be taken before we face the electorate again in june 2004. therefore, i think that on these three items, the 2003 budget has been a success. we had a strategy and we had some muscle enabling us to achieve that, by withholding monies or posts so that action could be taken. we must be vigilant over the next few months and ensure that progress continues to be made on these three items because none of them has been fully resolved in this 2003 budget. but it is thanks to parliament's powers and the determination of our political group to use them that we have made progress on those three items so far. i end with a word of warning: current proposals in the european convention seem to be aiming to restrict parliament's power in the budgetary procedure – we should make sure that this does not happen. (applause)
chairman of the committee on budgets. – mr president, since we are congratulating ourselves – everyone has made very complimentary speeches about the role of the committee on budgets – i am reminded of a story once told to me by vice-president schmid. a former chairman of the committee on budgets and a former general rapporteur went on a skiing holiday. whilst they were out skiing they had an accident: they fell down a deep ravine. they were stuck and could not get out. twenty-four hours later, people realised they were missing and they sent out a search party. when the search party reached the ravine, it looked down and saw these two figures. they shouted down: ‘are you from the budgets committee?’ they replied: ‘yes, we are!’ they shouted back: ‘we are from the red cross.’ the reply came: ‘we have no money’. (laughter)that is the image that most people have of the committee on budgets. however, with this budget we have been extremely kind to virtually everybody who has come along. anyone who has been involved in this procedure knows about the faxes, e-mails, telephone calls and the knocks on the door as attempts are made to lobby for anything that can be gained from this budget. however, on this occasion the rapporteurs have worked extremely well to ensure that the priorities of the committees, the different political groups and those with outside interests who have lobbied effectively are taken on board. we have a budget which reflects considerable good will on the part of this parliament. in fact, there is so much good will that, as i said in committee, we have too much money in the budget, especially in some areas in category 4 where the money will not be spent. however, it is there, and it has been achieved through the good work of the rapporteurs and the committee and through our joint efforts with the council and the commission. it must be said that there have been a good deal of firsts in this budgetary process, not least because of the attitude of the danish presidency. we have all congratulated them, and they have worked exceptionally hard to ensure that we finally have a budget of which we can all be proud. there is normally considerable lobbying at this final stage, but not on this occasion. the very few instances of lobbying we have encountered concern one or two lines relating to category 4. our negotiations in the conciliation with the council and the commission have actually proved fruitful. in category 4, every single amendment requested by the committees has been delivered, except on those lines concerned with echo – we are convinced that the money can be found – and the global health fund. we do not have the eur 80 million that was requested, but we have eur 42 million from the general budget and a guarantee that the european union will have a seat on the board of the global health fund. from that point of view, it is quite good. however, the one message that needs to be conveyed, amidst all these congratulations, is how the money will be utilised throughout next year, because our weakness in this parliament is that we do not monitor how the money is being spent. mr ferber urged the commission and the council to ensure that the money is well spent. it is our job as well, and the committees in this parliament have to ensure that they are monitoring month in and month out. the last thing we want is a 15% return to the member states at the end of the day, which is what happened this year when we gave back eur 15 billion. the member states are happy about that, but it is not good budgetary practice. (applause)
mr president, i too would like to congratulate both rapporteurs, who have attained good results. i would particularly like to thank mr stenmarck for his cooperation in working with me on the other institutions' budgets and, crucially, the implementation of the front-loading exercise. this means that those budgets which at the outset were eur 66 million over the ceiling, are now within an acceptable margin. this should help us in the 2004 budget as well. the start of 2003 was a difficult budgetary year. not only did we have major preparations in the institutions for the forthcoming enlargement, but the strains of working within a rigid framework agreed in berlin were all too apparent, especially in category 4. i agree with what mr färm said earlier about the straightjacket system within which we have to work. it has been a real juggling act for both rapporteurs, especially on our main budget. i have observed over the last three years a year-on-year crisis situation. whilst the eu's obligations and global needs are growing, the finances are not. one of the fundamental problems for parliament is the lack of influence on the whole of the eu's budget, particularly category 1. while we, as parliamentarians, are committed to budgetary rigour, our inability to influence 50% of the eu budget is frustrating because we cannot fully translate political priorities into budgetary ones. therefore, i would like to congratulate both mr stenmarck and mr färm, particularly mr färm, for achieving what he has done in delivering on most of parliament's priorities. the reality of enlargement is upon us. however, until we have the outcome of the convention and the full extent of the new role of the institution is established, it will be difficult to put direct plans into place. although we have begun preparations in this budget and some minor adaptations have already taken place in this house, the reality of enlargement has not fully sunk in within the institutions. we have not properly begun to address the full implications of enlargement. let us just look at the three places of work. concerning strasbourg, there are likely to be something like 100 new meps plus their assistants as well as their council counterparts and additional commission staff from the new members of the european union. in practical terms, that means that there are likely to be 2 000 to 3 000 more people around once a month in this city. even now the hotels are struggling to cope. i know we are known as a travelling circus but, come may 2004, we may literally have to camp out in our tents because there will not be enough hotel rooms as a result of the enlarged parliament. combined with this the transport links – especially the air links – are far from satisfactory for current members. therefore it is absolutely essential that the convention grasps the nettle and looks seriously at the three places of work. how can these be reduced? it is important that the council and the convention recognise that they have to take this political decision. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, it gives me great pleasure to say that the budget for 2003 has gone wonderfully well. it was a privilege to be in on the mid-term and end-of-year conciliation meetings where there was constructive and sensible debate and deals were done. i would like to praise commissioner kinnock for his reforms at the commission, although there has been one blind spot. i am delighted to see mrs schreyer here today, who hopefully is going to talk about accounting control. during the passage of this budget we in the conservatives and the european people's party tried to indicate that we needed better and tighter accounting control. if we did not get that, we would not release certain amounts of money and allow certain staffing levels. this is absolutely vital. it is a great pity that the committee on budgets takes one forward look at the budget, but then encounters budgetary control implications, and there is a bit of a gap between the two. there needs to be a seamless thread, and i am delighted that mrs schreyer is here to address that issue today. looking ahead, it is vital that we have the common agricultural policy reform carried out to programme and not delayed, because this is so vital to enlargement and the sensible payment of reasonable subsidies – i say reasonable and stress that word – to the accession countries. i praise the fact that we get good value from the european union budget. we have brought down the percentage of gross domestic product spent on the budget successfully, so that it is now just over 1% at 1.02%. i praise everyone involved, particularly the rapporteurs, on a very successful budget outcome.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i would like to make a very brief comment on some of the questions that have been raised: first of all, of course, on the implementation of the budget. i should like to mention here that, in this budgetary procedure, a very good arrangement has been made again, particularly with regard to pilot projects and preparatory measures, namely that a vote on implementation aspects can be held beforehand so that what is decided by the budgetary authority in the budgetary procedure can also be implemented swiftly by the commission. mrs buitenweg asked about the environment, also in preparation for the tasks that will arise with enlargement, because environmental laws - quite rightly - must be implemented from day one, if there are no transitional arrangements, but transitional arrangements must also be observed. the directorate-general for enlargement will have 18 additional posts for preparation for enlargement when you have completed your vote on the 2003 budget on thursday, and more will be available through implementation, so that 33 additional posts will be available to the directorate-general for the environment during the course of 2003. i would like to take up what mr walter said in his contribution on the adjustment of the financial perspective in the context of enlargement. i can assure you, mr walter, that the commission has made it very clear that the adjustment of the financial perspective is not something which is decided in advance, but is to be decided jointly by parliament and the council on a proposal from the commission. i agree with you, the maximum amounts have now been decided in copenhagen, but what is to be done, so to speak, in terms of precise adjustment must be done in a joint effort. i would be very pleased if we could set the timetable as envisaged by the forthcoming greek presidency of the council, so that the main discussions can indeed take place at the first trilogue. mr graefe zu baringdorf - he is not here now - raised the issue of parliament's decisions on agricultural expenditure. the commission fully shares the view that in future this distinction between compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure, and therefore the distinction between the right of parliament, should be abolished and the european parliament should be given full budgetary rights. i believe that this budgetary procedure has once again shown that the european budget can only gain from it. (applause from the centre)
- this debate is over. the vote will take place on thursday at 11.30 a.m. (the sitting was suspended at 4.55 p.m. and resumed at 5.00 p.m.)
- the agenda calls for the commission's communications on the future of pension systems and the modernisation of accounting.
the commission. the report is neither optimistic nor pessimistic. we have two pieces of objective evidence. the first is the problem of population ageing and the second is the increase in life expectancy. taking both of these into account, there are specific policies in the member states in which raising the age limit for entering the labour market - in most countries now considered a prerequisite - appears as a key option, and alongside these are policies which will help older people to remain in the labour market. i think we can avoid the smaller pensions by the logic i have just mentioned.
i very much welcome your remarks, commissioner. i would like to pick up on just one point, when you said ‘member states must make much more effort to enable employees to stay longer in employment’. i agree with that. my question really is: what is the commission, rather than member states, doing, and in particular what are the eu institutions doing, not just to allow people to stay longer but also to employ older people in the first place? my specific question is: is it true that there are still some eu institutions that have age barriers so that if you are over a certain age, you cannot be employed by them? have those barriers come down yet? if not, when will they come down?
the commission. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would remind you that two years ago we adopted the anti-discrimination directive, which must be adopted by all countries by july 2003, and that according to this directive there can no longer be any discrimination on the basis of age. so since july 2003 it is a european framework. the second question on the subject of parliament: i said in my speech that we should find a clearer role for the european parliament in the open method of cooperation, and we have discussed with the committee responsible how we could strengthen the role of parliament in the open method of cooperation within the assembly. as regards the report's main points, i was clear that pension reform policies are national policies. of course, there are dimensions of these national policies which are european, so that a country cannot pursue a policy of pension reform without taking account of the stability pact, the internal market laws or the employment strategy. so i would say that this is a matter of national policy.
mr president, does the consultation process which was used by member states reflect the public's confidence that they will have a decent pension at the end of their working lives, given the current state of the finances and markets of the member states? have any of the member states examined, in particular, the issue of how pension funds themselves operate, given that they are, as ms jensen said, big financial players on the market? how much are they investing in the issue of corporate social responsibility themselves? how much are they looking at ethical investment which might then deal with issues such as quality of work, keeping older people in the workforce, training and a whole raft of measures at the same time as dealing with the pensions question itself?
the commission. i would like to say, mr president, that i agree with the first question and with what i said in my introduction, that the problem is not simply raising the retirement age, unless this is accompanied by policies to help the elderly to remain in the labour market or, in many cases, to enter it, which is why i referred not only to the stability pact but also to the employment strategies. i would like to remind you that one of the main objectives of the employment strategy is the integration of the elderly. this will be achieved through specific proposals and measures relating to their training, with specific incentives. i would remind you that commissioner monti and i recently decided that support for the elderly in the first phase of their integration into the labour market is not considered to be state aid. so, this is the approach. we cannot raise the age limits if we do not at the same time introduce policies to support the integration of the elderly. in answer to mr fatuzzo's question on the internal redistribution of pensions, it should be stressed that the model is purely national and it is indeed a decision of each government as to what kind of pensions it will give where, depending on the model it has used and the principles it has formulated. but i must return to one of the axes of the strategy, which is the axis on pension adequacy, where again policies are defined in a concrete way today, indicators tomorrow that have to do with sectors of the population that are at risk of being excluded, with particular problems such as single-parent families, to which you referred, or the issue of women. the member states should therefore state in their reports what they have done for each of these approaches. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take part in the negotiations on the accession of the new member states to the european union. as regards mr pronk's question on the question of 60 or 65, there is no directive setting the retirement age in the member states. the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the proposal, which i hope will be adopted by the council. today all countries have a minimum age of 65. we have an exception in france, but there are other conditions, and the nordic countries, which are trying a new approach, tend to abolish the age limit - it can go up to 67 or 60 - but the pension is adjusted accordingly. finally, on the management of financial institutions and bodies: i am not sure i fully understand the essence of the question, but my answer is that as far as public pension schemes are concerned they are obviously subject to the general framework of fiscal stability of each country, as far as private pension funds are concerned. i would remind you of a recent commission directive which introduces important safeguards for the safe management of the money of these funds.
- the next item is the commission communication on the modernisation of mrs schreyer's accounts.
mr president, i welcome the commission statement and i am pleased to see we are becoming more avant garde, emerging from the dark age of accounting that the commission presently inhabits. it is interesting to hear that you are going to check the receipts of commission monies – who gets contracts, where tenders go. you are going to change your bookkeeping rules, your it systems and your project management. but what do you preside over now? what has the commission been doing for the last few years? why has it taken so long for this reform to be introduced? more importantly, having now confirmed that every allegation levelled by mrs marta andreasen was correct, where was the part – maybe i missed it in your statement – where you apologised for the personal slurs on mrs andreasen's background and character, made on and off the record by your press service? could you now say that the disciplinary process against your former chief accountant will stop and she will be brought in to drive through these reforms that she told you you needed this time last year? finally, who ever signed off the commission's accounts in 2001?
mr president, on a point of order, i listened with great interest to the questions by mrs stauner and mr heaton-harris who both asked the commissioner to comment on the allegations made by mrs andreasen and on whether, in fact, she was not completely justified. i notice the commissioner did not reply to those questions. mr president, please invite the commissioner to do so because, as two members have asked the same question, they are entitled to a full response.
mr president, on a point of order, i appreciate your comments but this is one of the fundamental problems we have with the commission at present. mrs sandbæk has written to you, commissioner, asking to see a copy of the signature of your former, former chief accountant on the 2001 accounts. i asked who that person was. i was told in the past that they were signed whilst that person was in post. that person left the commission's employment on 31 december 2001. they were either the quickest prepared set of accounts in history or something magical happened. i am not convinced by what you have said today and i very much doubt whether the people in the public gallery are convinced. i would just appreciate some frank exchanges and honesty between you and those of us who are interested, because mrs andreasen told you what was happening. she wrote to you and met you, and you chose to ignore here. what happened is a disgrace to you and your institution. realistically, you have to bite the bullet and get on with reforming the accounting system properly, and you could do with mrs andreasen's help.
madam president, it seems like only yesterday that the commissioner and i were talking about other issues regarding the safety of some of these foodstuffs. does the commissioner still believe that his statement of 28 june was a necessary and sufficient answer to the concerns that have been raised? he has just told us that the fvo missions to brazil and thailand, and probably elsewhere, were cancelled because 100% testing is now in place within the member states. if the commissioner did not say that, then i misheard him. it is certainly true that in some of those member states – notably germany and the netherlands – considerable concern has been expressed about the degree of nitrofuran residues in poultry and the extent to which even a very sophisticated member state cannot guarantee by itself the degree of testing. the issue is not only what happens within the member state – as the commissioner knows, there have been a whole series of rapid alerts during 2002. i would like to know how many rapid alerts throughout the european union have been proclaimed in this calendar year as a result of this continuing anxiety about carcinogens like nitrofuran when residues are discovered in imports. i would like to know whether or not he feels that poultry imports from countries like brazil give cause for serious concern. i would like the commissioner to put on record the opinion of the commission and its own residues experts on the number of tonnes of poultry from the states in question that have passed into the european union without proper inspection. my information is that something like 2000 tonnes of brazilian poultry have entered the eu in this way. how close does the commissioner believe we are to achieving 100% safety testing in the member states? why are these missions being postponed? is the sanco dg under pressure from other directorates? are there questions here about endangering trade talks, meaning that one should not throw suspicion on any other states? if that is the case, it is not a sufficient answer to give to those whose primary concern is – as is the commission's – food safety. finally, how soon will these proposed missions take place? the commissioner said earlier today in the debate on foot and mouth disease that he did not like disguised forms of protectionism – nor do i. however, i do not like disguised forms of concealment either, where there is a risk. if the money is not available and that is why these fvo missions have been postponed – tell us so. there are members of the committee on budgets here now. parliament is very keen to support you, but we need candour in order to do it.
commission. – madam president, i wish to begin by thanking members for their interest in this proposal and especially mrs ries, the rapporteur, for her constructive work, as well as the delegation of the european parliament in the conciliation committee. this is an important directive, as it would introduce a ban on substances that have been identified as dangerous brominated flame-retardants posing unacceptable risks to human health and the environment. it is a far-reaching proposal as it bans the marketing and use of all articles containing these substances. the proposed directive will therefore encourage the marketing and use of safer alternatives. furthermore, the proposed directive provides not only for the protection of human health and of the environment but it would also preserve the internal market, as it would introduce harmonised rules throughout the community. the conciliation procedure that is about to be concluded has benefited from the fact that the risk assessment and the risk reduction strategy for ocatabde became available in july of this year. we were therefore able to include 'octa' in this directive. the commission believes that this is a positive outcome. considering the discussions about the extension of the ban to the third brominated flame retardant, decabde, this requires further examination and finalisation of the currently ongoing risk assessment. simultaneously, a risk reduction strategy will be developed. this is an important step in the procedure. it will allow the right balance to be found between the protection of health and the environment, on the one hand, and the need for effective fire protection on the other. as the risk assessment procedure and the risk reduction strategy will be completed in the next few months, the commission will soon be able to propose justified measures. in conclusion, i am very glad about the successful cooperation between the european parliament and the council and hope that this important directive can now be finalised.
madam president, like the previous two speakers i welcome this report and i praise the rapporteur for her work. the initial proposal to ban the use of the flame retardant pentabde was not considered by parliament to be adequate, as closely related substances – octabde and decabde – were not included. furthermore, parliament was dissatisfied with the speed at which the risk assessment was being carried out, as this was delaying any real concrete decisions. no one underestimates the value and importance of these substances: they are very effective flame retardants and they save lives. however, they appear to have dangerous effects on the environment and public health and, therefore, we felt something had to be done. i am sure that parliament is pleased that the original proposal is now developed and that octabde has also been banned. however, parliament cannot be totally happy about the fate of decabde, which remains to be decided. parliament would like a clear date for action on this. the fate of this remaining substance is still hanging in the balance. we need clear reassurance from the council and the commission – by way of an insertion of a paragraph in the text during conciliation – that prompt, immediate action will be taken when the results of the risk assessment become available, as promised, in june 2003. i hope the commissioner will confirm that tonight. on this basis, the pse group can support this proposal, which will be put to the vote tomorrow morning.
mr president, now i know at last how european laws are really made. they are made in the council of ministers building by exhausted people shouting at each other in corridors in the middle of the night – and the rapporteur and the commissioner will know exactly to what i am referring. if i am asked to give an example of the way in which the principles of sustainable development can be put into practice, then this directive may well be it. if i am asked about the burden of new regulations which parliament sometimes places upon industry in the cause of environmental improvement, i will proclaim this directive as an example of the way in which industry and parliament can work together. it is a splendid piece of legislation. it is not the end, but it is a good beginning and much credit goes to both the commission and our rapporteur. i am particularly pleased with the principle of individual producer responsibility, which has been so firmly embraced. within the last week we have seen two good illustrations of the way in which industry is responding to it professionally and effectively. four of the major manufacturers of electrical goods, including our chief lobbyist, electrolux, have teamed up to develop a common approach to waste management which aims to be both innovative and cost efficient. and the mobile phone manufacturers of the world have agreed to cooperate to ensure the environmentally sound management of their end-of-life products. my principal concern relates to – and i echo mrs doyle's words – the implementation of the directive. just a few weeks ago government representatives in that room in the council committed themselves to this legislation at the conciliation meeting. it is all supposed to be transposed into national law in about 18 months' time. but judging from our experience with the end-of-life vehicles directive, that will not be the case so far as many member states are concerned. the uk government has still not transposed mr florenz's legislation. i hope the commission will take advantage of the european convention to present some proposals to change the enforcement procedures to stop member states getting away with breaking their commitments and playing the system. finally, the text of article 4 was the matter i referred to in my opening remarks. i tabled the draft to try and deal with the problem of printer cartridges, many of which are not being recycled for anti-competitive reasons and are instead ending up in poisonous dumps in china. i hear that, sadly, the uk government is trying to wriggle out of the intended requirement to prevent producers from making their reuse difficult by claiming that these products are consumables. it will probably take a british judge to make them recognise the obvious truth, that a cartridge fitted with an electronic chip is an item of electronic equipment. i hope that other member states will take the lead in this and in other respects in putting this directive fully into practice, and show by example just what a commendable piece of legislation this directive will prove to be. i wish you and members of the conciliation delegation, and the commissioner and her staff, a merry christmas.
mr president, the concerns about increasing quantities of electrical and electronic equipment entering the waste system have been well rehearsed. there can be no dispute that this type of waste is a problem. furthermore, there is no dispute that the problem will continue to grow. however, there is a world of difference between agreeing that something is a problem and agreeing with a proposed solution. my purpose in making this address, therefore, is to enter into the record my total disagreement with this directive. my central objection is that the directive is economically illiterate. its effect will be to create massive quantities of materials in a highly volatile market. when quantities increase as a result of this directive, the value of recycled materials will drop, making the economics of recycling extremely uncertain. on this basis, producers and eventually their customers, are being asked to sign a blank cheque. neither does any serious consideration seem to have been given to the problem of labour recruitment. salvaging materials is highly labour-intensive yet the work is unattractive. either wages will have to go up sharply to meet the demand for more staff or the scheme will be bedevilled by labour shortages. the recycling plants required to meet this directive are highly capital-intensive. with such uncertain returns it seem unlikely that there will be any commitment to providing the necessary facilities. finally, i have to add to a list of objections that is by no means complete the fact that, as we have learned to expect from eu legislation, the system is highly bureaucratic, adding massive overheads and a totally unnecessary burden on industry. it also requires member states to create yet more criminal offences to regulate the commercial market. is turning our businessmen into criminals really what european unity is really all about? is this really what monnet planned? surely there is a better way. logically, if there are tax breaks for companies which use recycled materials and import controls which favour equipment with high proportions of recycled materials as well as tax breaks for companies that process the materials, this would create a market. one could find that, as with the car batteries' recycling – before the eu destroyed it – a new market would be created. properly designed such a scheme could permit end-users to be paid for delivering waste material, which is exactly what happened with car batteries and the reason why – before the eu intervened – we managed to recycle over 80% of car batteries. with that degree of cooperation the most expensive part of the scheme – collection costs – are minimised. it seems that, whenever there is a choice between a simple and effective scheme and one that is costly, bureaucratic and inefficient and also criminalises the business fraternity, the european union always goes for the latter. if you need an explanation as to why there is growing disenchantment with the european union, just look at this directive and the many more like it.
mr president, i agree with everyone who has spoken tonight. this is a substantial and very important proposal. when fully implemented it will bring about a transformation in the culture of recycling in many member states. the rapporteur can be truly proud of his work and he is to be congratulated on it. the requirements in these two proposals: firstly, to ensure recycling of substantial quantities of waste electronic and electrical goods, and, secondly, to ensure substantial reductions in the amount of hazardous substances in these products will be technically and financially very difficult to achieve for many people. patience must be shown with some member states that are starting from scratch and have very little infrastructure for recycling. in particular we cannot expect the new accession states to achieve easily or quickly the high levels of recycling of these products that already exist in some more advanced member states. we can be pleased that individual consumers can expect to return their waste appliances free of charge, and that the primary responsibility for collection and disposal of waste electrical and electronic goods will be with the producer. however, we may see the unfortunate situation of local authorities – and consequently local taxpayers – dealing with orphan and some historic waste. in that situation, the governments that have agreed to this proposal have a responsibility to support financially this necessary work. despite all the difficulties that i foresee in implementing this proposal in parts of the union, we are taking a very important step tonight and tomorrow when we vote on it – it brings us all a very practical step forward towards a sustainable future for the european economy and a sustainable future for all.
mr president, on behalf of the group of the european liberal, democrat and reform party, i would like to congratulate the president-in-office on the successful conclusion in copenhagen of an outstanding danish presidency. it is rare in my experience for a presidency to receive such wide praise from all sides of this house. the improvement in relations between the council and parliament has been notable, and we owe much in this regard to the role of our former, much-esteemed colleague, mr haarder. the outcome of the summit is a tribute to the negotiating skills of mr fogh rasmussen and the persistence both he and his team displayed. their decision to focus single-mindedly on enlargement paid off handsomely: europe can now reunite. however, we must not be complacent. the full application of the copenhagen criteria, both in the new countries and in the existing member states, must remain a matter of concern. moreover, there are referenda to be won in all the new countries – referenda in which each and every one of us can play an important part, if we so choose. copenhagen offers bulgaria and romania the prospect of greater pre-accession aid and the objective of membership in 2007. while these two countries will clearly be in the next wave of enlargement, we should continue to be guided by the principle that each candidate will be judged on its own merits. liberal democrats would have preferred an earlier review of turkey's readiness for accession. however, turkey is clearly now on the path to membership and, if the copenhagen criteria are met by the end of 2004, my group will hold the governments to their commitment to open membership negotiations. an agreement on the united nations plan to reunite cyprus would have been the icing on the cake of the copenhagen council. nonetheless, we remain optimistic that agreement can be reached so that a united cyprus can sign the accession treaty in april 2004. we hope that turkey will seize the opportunity to confirm its european vocation by putting pressure on mr denktash to reach a compromise. however, celebrations over the historic decision to reunite europe – and i welcome the very prominent role played by liberals in the council, commission and parliament, whether those on the benches in front of us apply that label to themselves or not – should not be allowed to overshadow another significant breakthrough at copenhagen. that was the agreement with turkey to allow the eu's rapid reaction force to go ahead and have access to nato's resources. europe's security and defence ambitions can now be put to the test as the eu takes over operation amber fox in macedonia. this may pave the way for more ambitious missions in the future, including peace-enforcement operations in accordance with the un charter. a wider europe must be prepared to shoulder its responsibilities in the world, whether in the middle east – i congratulate the council on its firm declaration on that conflict – or elsewhere. we must be a bulwark for freedom and democracy and a force for justice. in building that strength, we owe much to denmark. (applause)
madam president, winston churchill once spoke of an iron curtain coming down over europe. today we can safely say that the iron curtain has not only been lifted but has been dismantled, packed up in its box and consigned to the attic of history where it will serve to remind us of the horrors of the past. we have a lot to celebrate today. copenhagen reunited europe 13 years after the berlin wall came down and 21 years to the day after martial law was imposed in poland and already these things feel as if they belong to a different age. i congratulate the danish presidency and the commission on bringing to a successful conclusion ten sets of parallel and very diverse negotiations, bearing in mind that only a couple of weeks ago, it seemed as if we would not do it. i think it is impossible to under-estimate the importance of what has been achieved in copenhagen. however, at the risk of being accused of putting a dampener on our celebrations, i must point out that we are not there yet. there is still a lot to be done. the candidate countries still have to meet our standards and they must not be allowed to slacken their efforts. the commission still has to draw up its final report on the candidate countries, and we must ensure that the process does not degenerate into a messy argument about the imposition of safeguards. we still have to get the process ratified by parliaments, including, in particular, by the european parliament. we will scrutinise the treaties with care and attention to detail and no one should take parliament's vote for granted. we still have to sell enlargement to the people, both in the eu and in the candidate countries. we cannot take the people's assent for granted. notwithstanding mr rovsing's remarks just now, we must still make the kaliningrad solution work, and work in a way which does not undermine the sovereignty of lithuania. we must still ensure that the financial arrangements actually work and we must also ensure that parliament's role in those financial arrangements is fully respected. we still have to reform our common agricultural policy before it bankrupts us financially and politically. we still have to decide how an eu of 25 or more can work, because failure to reform our decision-making process will guarantee that this enlargement is the breaking and not the making of the european union. a lot has been done, but there is still a lot to do. we must not lessen our efforts towards bulgaria and romania, nor must they assume that 2007 is a guaranteed date of accession. i welcome the decision taken concerning turkey – although i would have preferred the date of 1 may 2004 – but this must become a defining moment in our relations with turkey. we guarantee that negotiations will begin if they meet the copenhagen criteria by december 2004, but equally, we must be clear that, if the criteria are not met, then turkey's accession will be off the agenda for the foreseeable future. we must stop playing games with each other. i welcome the determination to resolve the cyprus issue and would point out that, because we have always said that we would not allow third parties to veto our future, this is forcing us finally to reach a settlement in this long-running debate. prime minister, i am told by my government that in copenhagen, you were always well briefed, determined, clever and gave real leadership. if we are to overcome the obstacles ahead – institutional change and the need for political and economic reform – we need such leadership more often and then we can really celebrate. (applause)
madam president, one of the great disadvantages of this parliament is that it is never short of superlatives when it comes to heaping praise upon the presidencies that take place in this regular six-monthly cycle. the disadvantage is that when we really have some genuine praise to give, it does not come with the force that is deserved. for my part, mr rasmussen has been an outstanding president of the council. i would like, on behalf of my party, to congratulate him, coming from – and here i adopt what our president said – not one of the largest european countries. i had said smallest but i obey the president's edict on this. i am bound to say too that my own prime minister may have some personal aspirations for the presidency of the council if it works on a five-yearly cycle, but i very much hope that mr rasmussen has now entered the field in that regard. it is quite right that reference was made to the visionary words of pope john paul many years ago. i want to make some reference to margaret thatcher's own words at bruges. these words have sadly become synonymous with euroscepticism, but the real message that margaret thatcher gave at bruges was about a wider europe. in those circumstances her message about europe not becoming so inward-looking is one that has been carried forward by mr rasmussen and is one that we all celebrate today. i also endorse the remarks of mr verheugen. i distance myself from what mr abitbol had to say about him because he was quite right in talking about the moral obligation that we have to candidate countries, about the fact that democracy and human rights are the battle that these countries have taken forward. sometimes we adopt too much of a patronising attitude towards these candidate countries. we have to recognise that both parliament and peoples will need to ratify entry. i hope we learn the lesson of nice. that is a message for all of us here. the élites within europe do not recognise that we have to treat these countries with the respect that they deserve, not only because we want them to vote positively on entry, but because the institutions that we have must become more accountable and more responsive. that is what the convention is supposed to be all about. we have a structured design for six countries which is now difficult to operate on the basis of 15 countries and which shortly will be a mechanism that will have to serve the interests of 25 countries. the convention should not become tied down in a debate covering only institutional matters, but must shift its focus to demonstrate how europe can become a much more accountable and responsive institution for the future.
mr president, i wish, on behalf of my group, to make a number of short points on institutional questions that have arisen from the historic copenhagen summit. firstly, the agreement that the new commission should take office on 1 november. i welcome that agreement, but it must be clear – which it is – that the new parliament must be the one to approve the new president and commission. the details of this must be worked out, as mr barón crespo said earlier, in an interinstitutional agreement between our institutions. i would like to see november become the permanent changeover date. why should we, every five years, have a half-year period where the eu's work comes almost to a halt, while we first have the european elections and then an outgoing commission that needs to be replaced by a new one that can only start work the following year in january? it would be good to introduce this on a permanent basis and not just on this one-off occasion. secondly, the issue of the signing of the new treaty that emerges from the convention, containing a constitution. it is fair enough that this has been set for may, when the new member states will legally be members and can sign that new treaty. however, i would not like to see the new date being used as an excuse for having a long, drawn-out igc from autumn 2003 to may 2004. we must keep to the idea of having a short, sharp igc in autumn 2003, with the participation of the new member states, to approve the results of the convention, which we hope will not need to be changed. my third and final point is the question of the number of seats in this parliament for hungary and the czech republic. under the nice plans they are allocated two seats fewer than belgium, portugal and greece – although those countries have a comparable population with hungary and the czech republic. the czech republic and hungary are right to ask for equality. whether that is achieved by cutting the number of seats for the three current states – which may be difficult – or by raising the number for hungary and the czech republic, the issue must be addressed in the accession treaty.
in writing. - as a former customs 2000 rapporteur, i have an active interest in european customs cooperation within the eu and voted in favour of the mollar report, which improves the exchange of information. in all areas of freedom, security and justice, a balance must be struck between the freedom of individuals and the need to urgently combat the increase in organised crime. it is hoped that the customs investigation file identification (fide) will make a positive contribution to the fight against organised crime within the eu.
mr president, i would also like to welcome this report and the new directive. the passing on of contaminated blood can and does have fatal consequences and i welcome strongly the proposals to regulate the transportation of blood and to ensure supervision by qualified staff, which represent an important step forward in this directive. i would like to thank medical staff at addenbrookes hospital in cambridge and at the norfolk and norwich hospital, both of which are in my constituency, who have given me help and advice so that i could contribute to this directive. they want to convey the importance not only of qualified staff to supervise the process but also of training for all those who handle blood, because human error is the biggest source of accident in this respect. finally, the voluntary donation of blood – which is an important principle for us in britain in particular – has the added benefit of ensuring the highest possible voluntary screening-out of the health risk associated with blood transfusion. we should be thanking and congratulating all those millions of people in britain and throughout europe who give blood. we should also appeal to the 94% of people who do not give blood to do so in future.
mr president, yet again this parliament finds itself debating another maritime disaster. we are now faced with a disaster of such magnitude that it is no longer just a transport issue, it is also an environmental, social and fishing issue, which is why my group believes a committee of inquiry is needed to ascertain what went wrong with the prestige. on behalf of my group, i express to the people of galicia our sadness at their tragedy and our solidarity and support in their battle against this modern-day black death that is threatening their livelihoods and damaging their shores. this parliament would be fully justified in saying to our own council of ministers and to the imo: 'we told you so!' the parliamentary records are full of calls from this body for action on maritime safety. from the estonia to the braer, from the sea empress to the erika. we have highlighted flags of convenience, inadequate port state control, single-hull tankers and deficient crews and yet, despite our best efforts and the support of the commission, our own council of ministers has failed to heed the warnings and take decisive action and has been instrumental in ensuring that the imo is one of the most ineffective bodies ever. i say to the people of galicia that it should be our own council of ministers and the imo, not them, with oil on their hands at this moment. they have let the people of galicia and all of us down on this issue of maritime safety. the council of ministers does not want a committee of inquiry, as there are probably too many skeletons in its cupboard for that. however, it is shocking that the ppe-de group opposes such a move. it is a clear snub to the people of galicia. they seem to be more concerned about protecting political friends than protecting the people of europe. this is the worst ecological disaster for years and the ppe-de group calls for a hearing – pathetic! the time for talking is over. what we need is action – to ban the flags of convenience in our waters; to improve our port state control; to ensure that the ships of shame are detained; to ban all single-hull tankers; to ensure that those responsible for these disasters pay the full cost of the damage that they caused; and last, but not least, to ensure that the prestige is the last tanker to spread its black death over our coastline. mr haarder, take the message back to the council: no more blocking, delay, subsidiarity or hiding behind the imo – action is what we demand! (applause)
rapporteur. – mr president, we have spoken much in recent weeks about the enlargement of the european union. that enlargement extends our borders to russia, to ukraine and belarus – it is hardly surprising if issues of border control and immigration policy are centre stage. but when it comes to immigration, no country is an island. a real debate is needed at european level, and not the kind of distasteful sloganeering that we suffered at the seville european council. as a policy issue, immigration is simple. unless we open our markets to goods from poorer countries, thus helping their people to prosper, we will take their people. and unless we set our own immigration policy, either anarchy will reign or – more worryingly – criminal gangs of human traffickers will set that policy for us. what a pity that our governments did not listen a little more carefully to the advice of the canadian government about how, if we wished to get on top of the trafficking in people, we should open our front door a little to legal migration, in order to close our back door more effectively against illegal migration. i congratulate commissioner vitorino on the proposals that he brought forward a couple of years ago at the beginning of this whole debate. i deeply regret that member states did not adopt them as proposed. the debate has been dominated by the repressive aspects of migration policy and has shown scant regard for its humanitarian aspects. the strategy has hardly been one of small steps as the commissioners suggested – one of ‘faltering feet’ is perhaps a better description. i had the honour of chairing the committee on citizens’ freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs in this house for the first two years of that discussion. i regret not only the eu’s failure to establish effective and complete policies on immigration and asylum, but also its failure to ensure responsible stewardship of our economy which is intimately linked with immigration. the commission’s review of the european economy in 2002 shows the devastating economic consequences of stagnating population growth, which could lead to the rate of potential economic growth falling by 1% of gdp per annum for the next 50 years. what should we do? well, exhortations to procreation have never been known to work. the evidence suggests that the higher our living standards become, the less people will want to have children. so for economic reasons too, we need a mature debate about a policy of managed migration. i hope that this afternoon’s debate will contribute to achieving some joined-up thinking on immigration policy. i have been asked to report on the readmission agreement with hong kong. i regret that parliament has been neither consulted nor kept informed during the negotiations on this readmission agreement, that we find ourselves in the position of having to deliver our opinion after the agreement has been initialled – and, moreover, after the agriculture council on 23 december adopted the decision authorising its signing. according to rule 97 of our rules of procedure, throughout the negotiations – and here i quote: ‘the commission and the council shall inform the committee responsible regularly and thoroughly of the progress of the negotiations’. i deplore the fact that did not happen, all the more so because this is the first readmission agreement negotiated by the community. in the case of future agreements, i ask that parliament be kept informed about the state of negotiations by the commission and the council. readmission is about the return of persons found irregularly on our territory. few in this house would deny the need for a policy of return. it is an integral part of any credible immigration policy. effective return safeguards the integrity of asylum policies and of regular immigration programmes and it acts as a deterrent to irregular migration. return has risen to prominence essentially because of the way in which our over-stretched asylum systems are being used as alternatives to a closed-door immigration policy. when the council adopted its return action programme at the end of last month, i am sure it took into account the many advantages of assisted voluntary return, as well as the possibility of forced return. the advantage of assisted voluntary return is that it permits return in a non-punitive and a cost-effective way. it has been shown to work in germany, in the united kingdom, in the netherlands and in belgium. it is more convenient and it is less costly, both financially and politically, than deportation. it has been almost exclusively a european phenomenon and we need more research on the sustainability of return under avr programmes. but our policy needs to be rational, driven not by prejudice, but by a sober assessment of our needs. it must be carried out by governments who ought to resist the temptation sometimes to deport in order to seek approval from the mob. that policy must also address gender and health issues which are vital in this debate. the readmission agreement on which i have been asked to report is the first readmission agreement that the community is entering into. i share the commissioner’s appreciation of the willingness of the hong kong authorities to negotiate this with us. there is a danger that today’s debate will be confused with a debate on hong kong tomorrow which reflects concern about the implementation of article 23 of the basic law. some may argue that hong kong is not a safe country. i accept the assurance given on 10 december by donald tsang, hong kong’s chief secretary, when he gave his personal guarantee about the free flow of information and the freedom of speech remaining essential characteristics of hong kong society. nor have i any doubt that the hong kong administration is competent to administer a readmission agreement. moreover the agreement itself refers to international commitments to the protection of vulnerable persons. however, what concerns me about this agreement is that it is the first in what will be a series of such agreements. authorisation has already been given for the negotiation of such agreements with many countries – some of them have even been initialled. the fact is that some of those agreements will be far harder than this one. therefore, i would ask the commission this afternoon to clarify a number of issues. the first concerns the scale of voluntary and forced repatriation promoted by the member states, the categories of people involved and their countries of origin. are the measures that member states have adopted adequate and effective? since this house is also very concerned to ensure that the policies of return and the readmission agreements we negotiate respect fundamental rights, i would also ask how the commission proposes to ensure that the rights of individuals are respected in the event of repatriation, especially if this occurs on a large scale. is the commission sure that the readmission agreements it is proposing are compatible with our obligations under international refugee law? will the commission commit itself to establishing joint monitoring mechanisms with the countries with which we make readmission agreements? the house would like answers to all these questions. i would also like to know why the european parliament is never mentioned in the commission’s communication on a community return policy. i would like clarification as to which coherent and transparent financial instrument will be used for the return policy in question and readmission agreements in particular. the role of the european parliament as one arm of the budgetary authority is clearly important in this, and i would be interested to know whether we will, from a financial point of view, need a new legal base for this policy. the human rights clause in the readmission agreement used for hong kong is not strong enough to protect us against all eventualities in such agreements with other countries. we should recognise that, while concluding the agreement with hong kong was a relatively easy matter, as we were able to offer them visa-free access to the eu in return, cutting a deal with countries such as russia and morocco will be not a whit as easy. we will need to provide incentives for many third countries to cooperate with us, rather than threatening them with economic sanctions, as mr blair and mr aznar proposed in seville. that is why i welcome the commission’s recent communication on integrating migration issues into the union’s external relations policy. if we join up the dots between this paper, our development policy, the negotiations on readmission and our economic need for immigration, we will be demonstrating the joined-up thinking we so urgently require in immigration and asylum policy.
mr president, we all acknowledge that there have been two problems in the achievement of common asylum and immigration policies: lack of speed and lack of balance. on the speed problem, there has been a spurt on asylum policy under the danish presidency. i too pay tribute to the energy of mr haarder. however, on the question of balance, i still feel very frustrated that legal migration and rights of migrants have been neglected. there is so much criticism of migrants who fail to integrate, but little is done to assist them through, for example, family reunification or rights of free movement. let us take, for example, the reception conditions directive which highlights the classic danger of the ‘lowest common denominator’ approach imposed by the unanimity rule. this is not mr haarder’s fault. after apparent agreement on the text last april, debate was reopened. the result was that the germans got their way, and consequently there is no requirement to allow asylum seekers to work if a decision on their case is not forthcoming within a year. the british have got their way in that member states will be allowed to refuse reception assistance where the asylum seeker cannot show that he has made his claim as soon as possible. if there was qualified majority voting and codecision with this parliament, neither clause – i am sure – would be in this text since a more progressive majority would have prevailed. on the question of return, are we forcing women to return to afghanistan, to an environment described by human rights watch as being just as oppressive as it was under the taliban? spied on by teenage boys, women are marched to hospital and forced to undergo abusive gynaecological examinations to prove their chastity. they still have to wear the burkha, which is medieval. i suggest that we cannot guarantee the security of women returned to afghanistan. i would like assurance that we are not returning women to afghanistan.
mr president, there are two aspects to this issue: firstly, the problem of excluding unwanted migrants from the european union – or at least controlling their access; and, secondly, the reasons for migration. excluding population pressure, political instability and regional war, it is clear that the main pressure stems from economic disparities. in short, the bulk of immigrants seeking access to the european union member states are economic migrants. therefore, any successful policy must deal with not only the exclusion issues but also the causes of migration. here it seems clear the european union is making things worse. virtually all its external policies in respect of third countries and its policies towards the candidate countries seem geared to causing migration from less-developed countries. the union has rigid quotas, tariffs and other protectionist policies restricting trade with third countries. while it subsidies its own industries – especially agriculture through the unreformed common agricultural policy – and it dumps subsidised goods on the world market, all of this destabilises third-world economies. in terms of fishing agreements, the union pillages third-world waters, instead of encouraging local industries. it also takes skilled, educated workers from these countries, depriving them of the building blocks of economic development. all of this cruelly exposes the imperialism of the european project. instead of getting on with practical issues, you launch upon idealistic common policies. these policies are making the problems worse. it would make far more sense to stop damaging third-country economies, rather than embarking on these extraordinary new ventures. in other words, leave immigration control to the member states – a policy that my party supports – and address the failures of existing policies. there it seems to me, in deference to the council member present, you must try harder.
when i tabled this question two months ago i did not know that, coincidentally, there would be a debate this afternoon on immigration and asylum. i would like to thank the president-in-office for that reply. i do not underestimate the importance of the exchange of best practice on national integration policies and i pay tribute to the measures put in place in denmark under his stewardship. however, we still do not have this directive. what kind of timetable is there to get this directive agreed? it will give the estimated 20 million people who are legally long-term residents in the european union the legal framework of rights and obligations that will help to integrate them. is it not ludicrous to keep calling for mobility of labour to boost economic growth while preventing those 20 million from going to work in another member state? they are a rather obvious category of people who might be inclined to do that. is there a timetable, is there a target date for getting this directive agreed?
mr president, i would like to thank the minister for his reply, but i must say that the fact that mr solana is so detached from the process of settlement of the dispute in the island of cyprus fills me with great disquiet. would the minister agree that it is fear for their security that is proving the principle obstacle to turkish cypriot compliance with the annan proposals? would he not also agree that peace-keeping on the island will be a central responsibility for the european union, through the process of settlement and following this process, for a considerable period before tranquillity and stability truly return to that poor strife-torn place.
mr president, the fact that negotiations are taking place is no secret: that was why i was able to ask the question – we do not disagree on that – but the problem lies in the content. it is awfully nice of the council to tell us that it will inform us afterwards, but we – the only democratic body in the eu – would like to be consulted as it negotiates whether or not it is currently written in the treaty. the principle is real exposure. i have a suspicion that the president-in-office is personally in favour of transparency. he should therefore tell us what is really going on. i would like to wish the president-in-office a happy christmas and say thanks to him for being with us over the last six months, because i have a terrible feeling that we will not see him again.
mr president, i commend the rapporteur and welcome this excellent initiative. apart from being an important social phenomenon and a way to improve psychological and physical health, sport is also an excellent educational instrument which helps young people acquire important social skills. that is why i strongly and warmly welcome the celebration of the european year of education through sport 2004. i am most looking forward to seeing the positive impact that sport will have on the lives of young people from disadvantaged communities as a result of this programme. it will present sport as a way of improving the social inclusion of these groups and communities. nevertheless, i regret that both the council and the commission rejected parliament's amendments providing for the organisation of school competitions which would have allowed winning schools to attend the next olympic games in greece. that said, however, i welcome the council's recognition of the will of parliament on this issue.
mr president, the value of sport as a tool to promote national identity and further integration has long been recognised. not for nothing have both democratic and totalitarian governments used taxpayers’ funds on sporting activities. in terms of the construction of europe, the role of sport was formally recognised by the communities in the adonino report presented to the milan european council in june 1985. there can be no question that this issue was seen as a major asset, enabling the communities to foster active engagement of the citizens of europe in the construction of that project. therefore, whatever the fine rhetoric that might flow from this house, the true aim of this particular european year is to promote further european integration. in other words, this is naked propaganda. it is not a coincidence that the year has been declared to coincide with the olympic games. members of this house may think otherwise, but this is a cynical attempt to hijack the games in order to promote the european agenda. it is therefore outrageous that european taxpayers’ money is to be spent on this project. the sum of eur 11.5 million may be a small amount in the grander scheme of things, but it is still a lot of money. there is no justification. we are not here to finance such naked and cynical propaganda.
mr president, i was going to say on behalf of my group that we are pleased to see that a green paper is forthcoming, but perhaps i am in the minority in saying that i am pleased to see that a green paper is forthcoming in the sense that something is actually happening. the promise of future consultation and feasibility studies is to be welcomed, but this should not be an excuse for doing nothing. in that sense i agree with my colleagues that something has to happen sooner rather than later. process can be important, and we must get that right. i would like to make two points on behalf of my group, the first relating to competition. competition is excellent – we agree with the internal market – in that it is a way of raising standards generally and can also be a way of raising standards in the services concerned, but not for its own sake. perhaps it would be interesting to look at a country outside the eu – switzerland – in terms of energy policy. recently the swiss had a referendum to ascertain whether they should liberalise their energy provision, presently provided by their local cantons. swiss citizens voted against this because they were not satisfied that choice in that sense would raise standards – it might just prove confusing. that question was put to the citizens of switzerland. we, on the other hand, are waiting for a framework to establish how we should introduce such choices across europe. the second issue of particular importance to my group is universal services provision. this guarantees social cohesion across europe. taking my own constituency, for instance, and the current issue of broadband, letters are flooding into my office from constituents in rural areas who complain that broadband is available in certain cities, but not for them. such matters have to be resolved so that we can provide the same level of service to all our citizens and therefore guarantee the social cohesion which is so important to europe. it is ridiculous that the convention and its working groups are currently discussing these issues. these matters call for coordination as we move forward with the development of europe. so it is good that something is actually happening, it is good that there has been a statement, but let us get on with it.
mr president, it is the right of any member of this house to raise a point of order properly under the rules, not just some members of this house. if you are to refuse an electronic check on the third part of amendment 139, which was properly called for immediately after that vote was announced, i would be grateful if you could explain to the house on what basis you are refusing that check. unless this house accepts that explanation, which i do not, i ask you to make that check.
mr president, mr färm, the rapporteur, has said all that i was going to say. i simply wanted to thank the presidency but also the sessional services for all the work they do to ensure that this process goes through so smoothly. (applause)
mr president, you still have to ask the president-in-office of the council whether the council agrees with this budget.
president of the council. - mr president, parliament has now had its second reading of the 2003 budget and i note that the agreement reached between parliament and the council at the meeting of 25 november this year has now been confirmed in the 2003 budget. however, there are still some differences of opinion on the classification of expenditure in the budget, where the council reserves its rights. but the council can accept the budget resulting from parliament's second reading. at the end of the danish presidency, i would like to say that i have always had great respect for the european parliament and i can assure you that this respect has not been diminished by the positive cooperation which i have been fortunate enough to experience over the last six months. i would also like to thank in particular the chairman of the committee on budgets, mr terence wynn, and the rapporteurs on budgets, mr göran färm and mr per stenmarck. from our first meeting in this budgetary procedure, which began with a meeting in copenhagen, i have met with a very high level of competence and a great deal of goodwill for the fact that we each took up our responsibilities and found the solutions which make me feel that i can rightly congratulate parliament on the budget which has now been adopted. thank you for your cooperation and for your attention. (applause from the centre)
mr president, given the tragic nature of the disaster off the coast of galicia and the other member states which have since been affected by the oil tragedy, there is great solidarity and support in this house for our colleagues in galicia. therefore, i would urge the house to support the switching of eur 30 million. this money would otherwise have been used to compensate those who lost their livelihoods when we failed to renegotiate the morocco agreement. since those funds are no longer required for compensation, they will be earmarked for helping the victims of the prestige tragedy. i would urge the house to support this and show solidarity with the beleaguered fishermen and families in galicia. (applause)
mr president, in normal circumstances this procedure, as it is being proposed by the commission, would be totally unacceptable. the prestige accident occurred on 19 november. six days later parliament's delegation was in a conciliation meeting where we agreed on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for the remaining eur 27 million for the restructuring of the spanish and portuguese fleets. all this could have been dealt with differently and in a different time frame. the proposal as it is violates certain principles. firstly, it violates a procedure that is transparent. secondly, it violates the principles of specificity of the budget established by the financial regulation. it violates last year's decision to mobilise the flexibility instrument for the restructuring of the spanish and portuguese fleets, and it also violates the principle of sound management since there is no margin left under heading 2, which implies that decommitments and then recommitments have to be made to make the necessary funding available. having made all that clear, let us look at the political and the pragmatic approach. we, in the committee on budgets, are political and pragmatic people – not just budgetary people as people seem to think we are! (mixed reactions)as mr gerhard schmid said to me a short while ago, not everyone believes in god but they all believe in the committee on budgets! (laughter)the commission proposal at least gives us the chance to use this year's budget – the 2002 budget – and that would be a better solution for taxpayers, to make sure that we are using money from this year, rather than getting supplementary own resources for next year. whilst condemning the procedure and making it abundantly clear that this calendar of the commission should not in any circumstances represent a precedent, i can recommend, on behalf of the coordinator of the committee on budgets, approval of the urgency. (applause)
in writing. - today's resolution on the copenhagen summit congratulated the danish government on its excellent presidency of the council and on the fact that we are celebrating today the most important enlargement in the history of the union. ten states will join us, most of them relatively small, and six of them have recently gained their independence democratically. in scotland we are often told that as a small country we would not have a significant position in europe if we were to gain our independence democratically from a larger entity in europe. on the other hand, in the current fisheries negotiations we were warned not to get our hopes up, because the united kingdom lacks strong allies in europe. there are five million danes and five million scots. i applaud the enormous achievement of this ancient little nation of europe. i look forward to the day when my own ancient nation can play a similar role. the idea that small states are worthless while big ones can be the weight is not true, and it has been shown. i voted for these ideas, but also for the great satisfaction of seeing this union enlarged without damage.
madam president, i begin by declaring an interest as the joint president of the hong kong friendship group, joint, that is, as with my good friend and colleague, mr de clercq, from the eldr group. the first point i would like to make – and this has been alluded to by my friend and colleague, mr cushnahan – is that hong kong cannot pass law under its constitution if it contravenes the international standards of human rights. my second point is that all countries need security legislation. i would argue that even what is proposed is milder than the recent homelands security act passed in the united states, without much obvious protest from this house. we asked the hong kong authorities to ensure that the article 23 proposal would not be used to silence opposition. i shall give a couple of quotes. a few days ago on 27 november, mr antony leung, the financial secretary, was in the european parliament. from the minutes of the meeting he attended – and i quote: 'he gave a very personal reassurance of the government's commitment to upholding the rule of law and the guarantees of human rights and freedoms set out in the basic law and enshrined in the hong kong legal system'. that was in front of our members very recently. a few days ago, on 10 december, the former financial secretary, now acting chief executive, donald tsang, said in a speech in hong kong: 'the free flow of information, the freedom to say and do what we want are the very fabric of hong kong society'. i put it to you that there is concern. i also look forward to having a clear and detailed provision and would like to see a draft bill for us to debate. but let us concentrate on getting good legislation, and not fall victim to those who want to campaign against the prc by proxy.
