my question concerns the forms of cooperation which you think we should develop with the european union in yemen, for example in the field of small and mediumsized enterprises or perhaps also in the field of energy and water supply, because communication and the building of links could play a special role in the future.
my question relates to the memorandum of understanding signed in the energy sector: do you think it is possible to achieve further development here together with mr oettinger or mr de gucht?
if we improved relations in the energy sector, on the one hand by increasing the supply of european equipment to make better use of the energy resources there and on the other by buying energy from there as compensation, it would be a win-win situation for both sides.
are they the interests of the big transnational companies, which want to make profits without respecting social or ecological agreements?
this has to make us think, because we always say that we are the ones who want to be the global leader in the fight against climate change.
for one thing, it is probably because we are not the biggest emitters, with our 14% co2 emissions.
the last environment council showed very well how different the views are.
if we subtract these cdms, these joint implementation measures, and these other measures, and only take into account our own measures to reduce co2 emissions, we see that our balance sheet is not as good as we always pretend.
we should consider whether we should not be more flexible in our negotiations, because the common fight against climate change is important, but the methods that lead to it can be quite different.
the only concrete outcome of the copenhagen climate summit was to limit global warming to two degrees celsius.
this minimal compromise is disappointing to us, especially since it is up to each individual state to accept or not to accept the agreements on climate protection targets.
we should promote sustainable and climate-friendly development that allows us to use the earth's resources fairly, for ourselves and for our future generations.
it has not been long since it became clear that emissions trading was being used for profit and abuse.
- i have to refer to the conference on corporate social responsibility held in stockholm on 10 and 11 november 2009. the swedish presidency, which organised the conference, and the then future - now current - spanish presidency came to the conclusion that the european union should take a global lead in this respect, should serve as an example for the important subject that mr désir raises in this question: the social responsibility of companies in creating markets, fighting corruption, protecting the environment, defending human dignity and human rights at the workplace, since, moreover, the european union is the largest economy in the world and the largest contributor to development cooperation.
i also believe that, in the context of the economic crisis, it is even more important to work in this direction and to work in the direction of competitiveness, environmental protection, linking with it and social inclusion.
i know that many of you do not like to hear this, but in its existence as a natural gem it is also a hopeful area for sustainable and modern tourism, which can and could be developed positively with small and mediumsized enterprises, especially in the danube delta, but also along the attractive river routes.
this teaches us an important lesson: the danube - every river - is a lifeline that must be protected and accompanied in its life and where it must be done with particular sustainability.
here, sustainability and care for the natural environment are paramount.
we expect a lot from this project: the expansion of environmentally friendly mobility, away from the road to the ship, the transfer of goods to the railway, the modernisation and bundling of industrial structures where it makes sense, cooperation on environmental issues and tourism - ecotourism in particular will be in demand - and of course the focus on research and development.
i am thinking in particular of inland waterway transport, which could very well cope with an ecological technological boost.
the danube should and must be a transport route, it is a source of energy - we have a large number of power stations - the danube is a nature reserve, it must be protected in terms of biodiversity, but it is also a protected area for leisure and tourism.
in order to further develop the quality of life for all people living in the danube region, we need a joint, sustainable and above all environmentally friendly development of the entire danube region as a key european region of the 21st century.
they are, of course, in the economy, but also in culture, environmental policy, energy security and neighbourhood policy.
the european added value of a macro-region will be demonstrated, particularly in the areas of biodiversity conservation and sustainable energy production.
in addition to issues relating to the river itself, such as the improvement of water quality and the ecological situation, the programme to be drawn up by the commission could also have synergy effects in economic and administrative terms.
but if you approach the matter with the sober, rational eye of a man who has not been a civil servant, who has not been a burden on any social system, who has not been active in any public sector - as the majority of members of parliament have been - and in the light of the concrete experience you have here, you say: for god's sake, how can i save my money, which i have often earned very honestly, from this waste?
we may not have that one phone number, but if you compare that to the united states of america -- say, climate change -- who should we call?
we need a sustainability pact for all policy areas, alongside the stability pact for the currency, to increase credibility and regain lost trust.
it will be necessary to develop the deficit procedure, the exit strategy and europe 2020 into a common approach in order to reduce public debt, tackle deficits, promote innovation and create growth and jobs in a sustainable way.
in these times of economic, financial and climate crisis, the citizens of europe expect you to lead.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
both strategies must be accompanied by sustainable growth and employment policies.
the baltic states are also expected to develop their energy markets in the light of the eu's energy policy.
what is the plan for infrastructure in the baltic states and for the diversification of energy transport routes and sources?
the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
for decades, the country has failed to invest its oil revenues in sustainable development and infrastructure development.
i believe that this requires a well-trained workforce, alongside a functioning energy supply and infrastructure, and not one wave after another of economic refugees flooding the labour market as cheap labour.
the disaster is, of course, also a consequence of international global warming.
one of the key problems in the energy industry is, of course, energy storage.
this is a major challenge, particularly in the case of renewable energy.
the more renewable energy we have, the more opportunities we have to make our environment much more energy efficient with smart grids and ultimately also to put incentives in households, to reduce consumption and also costs with smart metering.
the increase in efficiency will play a very important and central role in the future, not only in energy production but also in energy consumption.
addressing the growing demand for energy while protecting the environment, especially in relation to man-made climate change, is one of the eu's biggest challenges in the coming period.
in this context, it is of the utmost importance that energy infrastructure projects in the member states are known at european level.
this will make it possible to work more efficiently on a european energy solution.
this text on data exchange on investment projects in energy infrastructure provides a good overview of existing energy infrastructures in europe.
central monitoring also offers the opportunity to detect at an early stage whether europe is becoming too dependent on one energy source.
overall, the report represents progress towards a modern energy mix.
the aim of this motion for a resolution is to require member states to provide accurate information on their energy infrastructure projects.
the commission must be informed of the start or end of an energy project so that it can make new or amended project proposals and thus have a significant impact on the energy diversity of the member states.
it also reminded ukrainian politicians and public authorities of the need for political and economic stabilisation, which could be achieved in particular through constitutional reform, consolidation of the rule of law, the implementation of a social market economy and renewed efforts to combat corruption and improve the economic and investment climate.
- a fundamental and comprehensive reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp) is welcome, particularly in the context of sustainable fisheries management.
we need practical and efficient solutions which, if well-established, provide a sufficient livelihood for the sector, secure the supply of consumers, and at the same time ensure the conservation of biodiversity and the protection of the marine ecosystem as a whole.
it must be possible, in a competitive environment such as europe, to finally put in place concrete guidelines, and that is what i would like to see - and that is my approach - not only for small businesses but also for large companies.
− the additional protocol to the convention on cooperation for the protection of the coasts and waters of the north-east atlantic against pollution is part of a network of regional agreements on the protection of the marine environment concluded by the eu with individual member states and neighbouring third countries.
each of these conventions covers different parts of the seas surrounding the eu countries and is designed to allow individual or collective action by the parties in the event of accidental or threatened pollution of the waters or coasts.
the report does not address the problems of a completely unregulated market: european standards are not always met, whether in terms of quality and safety standards or environmental and health requirements.
you know, there are polls that say that only 30% of european citizens believe that co2 is having an impact on the climate.
two major changes are coming: one is - as you said at the beginning - to expand foreign policy, because climate, energy and other issues are part of foreign policy, and the other is to create a strong, effective foreign service.
copenhagen - if we are talking about energy policy - has shown that if we are divided and divided, if each head of government thinks he has to produce in particular, we will achieve even less than we would otherwise.
in the context of the eu 2020 strategy, the agricultural sector in particular is making a significant contribution to the new challenges defined by the eu, such as environmental and climate protection, renewable energy, biodiversity, and sustainable growth and employment, especially in rural areas.
a key element in shaping the immediate future must be the sustainable economy.
this is a goal which we must achieve step by step, not least because of climate change.
the question of raw material security will also be a matter of increasing concern in europe in the future, so we should already be setting the course for a sustainable use of resources and positioning european policy in this direction.
a possible tax on financial transactions could reduce the immense volume of speculative capital that has repeatedly affected the real economy negatively in recent times, and thus represent a step towards sustainable growth.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
i have to say, madam president, in the future, if methane, with its much higher warming potential than co2, is increasingly leaking out of the arctic ocean through the thawing of the seafloor, we have a highly dangerous new variable in the sensitive climate system - a variable that needs to be studied more closely as soon as possible.
the arctic will not only give us a climate-related headache, it also holds a lot of potential for conflict.
the oil and gas reserves that are believed to exist there could guarantee europe's energy independence.
it would therefore be important to know which sewage treatment plants and which waste water treatment plants are considered here in order to improve the river water accordingly.
my second question is: how can hydropower be used more for energy supply, but above all also for water storage, so that we can have more security of supply in europe in the field of energy?
i speak for myself and i want to say to my colleagues: for me nuclear technology is not the answer, and it is not a renewable energy for me.
it is therefore very important for us to reduce co2 emissions, but on the other hand this reduction must not be at the expense of the environment, i.e.
we cannot save co2 on the one hand and ruin our environment on the other.
2010 is the year of biodiversity, and it is very important that we also state in these papers that all investments, all measures must also be seen from the point of view of preserving our environment for our children, for our future and for biodiversity.
this means that all financial resources must also be used in a way that guarantees safety, prevention and sustainability, and this must be given special attention.
of course, with climate change and the resulting shift in water cycles, more severe storms will not be completely avoided.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
- i abstained in the vote on the 'resolution on investment in the development of low-carbon technologies', which, although it contains several sensible proposals, also favours the development of nuclear energy, which i oppose because of the great risks involved.
but if europe is to remain competitive with other global players, it will need to massively increase its funding for research, especially in the field of new energy.
the development of new low-carbon technologies in the energy sector will hopefully not only safeguard existing jobs in this sector but also create many additional highly skilled jobs.
i believe that the best way to do this is to invest in solar energy and carbon capture and storage.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the effects of the nuclear accident.
this new focus on energy will also improve the security of energy supply within the eu and increase independence from foreign suppliers.
a goal that will also have positive social and economic effects in the long term is to create a sustainable energy mix for europe.
the need for a rethink is not only due to the ever-decreasing use of fossil fuels and the climate impact of non-renewable energy sources.
i do not think that nuclear power is a bridge technology that is very suitable for europe to move towards a sustainable energy future.
it must be environmentally friendly, energy efficient and particularly cost-effective.
the comments on climate policy, which persistently refuse to engage in a debate with the ippc's critics and treat its findings as dogma, are also problematic.
you have mentioned five points, but the context, the idea that the eu 2020 will include economic, social and environmental issues, is lost, at least we see the danger.
only the so-called coral tunnel can remove this needlehole, this obstacle, in a sustainable way.
mr president, we agree with you that it is a question of competitiveness and social security in a europe of sustainability.
the new commission tax plans for the revision of the energy taxation directive, which would tax energy products according to their energy content, are to be rejected, as climate change, which is largely a natural phenomenon, has not been tackled by a pure focus on co2.
as the epp's environmental spokesman, i am also concerned in this context to create as many sustainable jobs as possible and to create added value on the labour market through europe's leadership in environmental protection.
in order to make the transition to a new and sustainable industrial age, we must no longer see job creation and comprehensive environmental protection as opposites.
-is the aid for the sustainable development of haiti?
my question relates to the volcanic eruption, which will of course have an impact on the fine dust and co2 emissions.
do you think it is possible to evaluate the particulate matter pollution to be taken into account in the future in order not to jeopardize jobs?
and also climate change, which, yes, affects the people equally, the people, on both continents, for example, with what is happening to the glaciers.
will you speak out against mega-projects like the dam at del monte on the river shingu in brazil, which is being planned at the moment and which will destroy swathes of living space for the indigenous peoples and is also not the best solution in terms of energy consumption?
i would like to know from you what the commission, and what you as high representative, are doing to preserve the environment in the amazon area for the peoples living there, and for all of us on this planet.
it is not just about energy supply from turkmenistan to kazakhstan.
and if multinational companies can sue governments for environmental and health policy decisions in their own lawsuits thanks to free trade agreements, then at the latest it is clear that the european union has apparently learned too little from the past financial and economic crisis and continues the erroneous path of neoliberalism.
europe has repeatedly committed itself to high environmental standards.
i would remind you of the water framework directive, which clearly aims to contain these risks, but of course also the commitments in the area of biodiversity.
i have to say, madam president, smart, sustainable growth, actionism, reforms, economic governance - a lot of nice words, high goals.
the community's europe, a credible political union, sustainable growth, sustainable employment and innovation, social cohesion and sustainable competitiveness are our goals.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policies and to monitor the implementation of the union's policies and actions in the field of climate change, in particular through the european environment agency.
europe 2020 must set in motion concrete projects for growth, jobs, research, innovation and sustainable competitiveness.
we also need a europe 2020 fitness check for national budgetary, tax, research, energy, innovation and social policies.
i am afraid that this is the way the conservatives want to re-introduce nuclear energy through the back door.
the promotion of low-carbon energy sources is a well-known argument of the nuclear lobby.
as an austrian, i do not see nuclear energy as renewable energy.
− with resources running out, electric vehicles can certainly become a genuine climate-friendly alternative if they are developed further.
however, this is only possible if they are truly resource- and environment-friendly in both their manufacture and operation.
the automotive sector is also characterised by a large number of complex regulations (such as those concerning safety and the environment), so competition law must take account of the specificities of this market.
we have over 160 million buildings in europe and these buildings need to be subjected to thermal renovation in order to use as little energy as possible and to reduce overall energy consumption accordingly.
40% of the energy is used to heat the buildings.
we hope that by 2020 we can achieve the target of 5% of total energy consumption through thermal remediation.
i believe that this is the best way out of the crisis, because it will of course also allow for new tax revenues, replace energy from the fossil sector and thus reduce the consumption of fossil energy and allow the use of renewable energy.
the first is the energy saving potential of residential buildings in the coming years.
it's of little use, then, if, despite a great energy-efficient renovation, the building is empty because the rent is soaring.
even in the name of climate protection, i do not think that renovations should involve undue interference with the property rights of citizens.
with zero-energy buildings, that's one of the things.
in 2008, the eu committed to reducing energy consumption by 20% by 2020. improving the energy efficiency of buildings with the aim of low-energy homes will not only reduce energy consumption.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the energy performance of buildings, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
− easy-to-implement energy-saving measures have been implemented many times in recent years, but it is difficult to estimate the actual energy saving potential that can be easily achieved without extremely complex renovations.
the whole thing must not end up with magnificently renovated energy-efficient buildings standing empty because of exorbitantly rising rents.
in general, even in the name of climate protection, the right to property of citizens must not be unduly interfered with during renovations.
energy-saving solutions are sometimes very costly and not always fully developed, so it is not enough to simply prescribe something, but incentives must be provided.
the impact of the energy project is not clearly measurable, which is why i voted against it.
- i voted in favour of this report because i am particularly concerned that legally binding social and environmental standards should be included in international free trade agreements.
are you sure that the oil rigs far away from us - in the north sea and the baltic sea - can really withstand the other storms that we have to expect in the context of climate change?
the european union has taken the right path in reducing co2 emissions by 20% and replacing them with renewable energy, and we can achieve a great deal by increasing efficiency.
as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and as the shadow rapporteur on biodiversity, i am of course personally concerned by this disaster.
we should also focus all our mental energy and our financial resources on investing in renewable energy.
the commission has taken many steps, and now it is time to consider and implement concrete alternatives, such as the expansion of the transeuropean high-speed rail network, which can also contribute to reducing co2 emissions.
i am convinced that we need consolidation and growth, but both terms are always linked to another aspect, namely socially acceptable consolidation on the one hand and sustainable growth on the other.
- if the energy label is introduced, it will soon become clear whether it is accepted by consumers, if it is understandable to them.
consciousness has changed in this respect, so that more attention is paid to energy efficiency classes, especially in the case of electrical appliances.
of course, the public procurement procedure should set a good example, but it cannot be imposed on member states to procure only products with the highest level of performance and energy efficiency class.
apart from the fact that this is not very sensible, the extra travel would not only create unnecessary costs, but would also waste valuable working time.
this also means strengthening the education sector and investing in education, research and innovation as the foundations of a sustainable social market economy, a sustainable and more environmentally conscious economy.
it is obviously necessary to support bulgaria in the closure of kosloduy and the associated economic and environmental problems, such as the safe disposal of radioactive waste, the promotion of renewable energy resources or the retraining of staff.
political dialogue between the eu and our southern neighbours is not limited to migration and economic agreements, but also covers areas such as disaster prevention, energy and the environment.
only through better cooperation between the mediterranean countries can projects that improve environmental protection be implemented.
that is to say, the need to move away from high military spending, which we also criticise in this report, which has also increased in recent years, towards spending which actually benefits the population in the social, cultural and ecological fields.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in order to reduce europe's dependence on russia for energy supplies, natural gas from the caspian basin is to be piped through the south caucasus to the eu.
- until there is a satisfactory solution to the disposal of radioactive waste, it is not surprising that the candidate countries do not know which option to focus on.
what cannot be is that eu financial aid is paid to increase the protection of people and the environment and the fuel elements are then sold, while the possibility of their use for military purposes cannot be ruled out.
of course, it would be in the interests of the safety and the environment of the whole of europe if a solution to the disposal of nuclear waste were found, the resale of nuclear waste must be stopped in any case.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its obligations under the treaty.
i think it is essential that we also pay greater attention to ensuring that this growth is sustainable on the one hand and that, in particular, the consolidation of the budget of the european union, but also of the individual budgets of the member states, ensures that this consolidation is socially compatible and that, above all, this consolidation does not forget the legitimate interests and demands of young people, namely their right to the best education and training and their right to a job.
finally, particular attention must be paid to the sustainable and traceable use of resources.
one thing is clear: the capacity of our member states is very tight, and the sooner we recover, the sooner the eu recovers, the sooner we will be able to provide long-term, sustainable aid.
on the contrary, we need a reliable, predictable, sustainable framework that allows people to live and work in decent conditions and thus earn a living.
a key model for a sustainable, fair and circular economy, in my view, is the eco-social market economy, whose core area is small, structured, multifunctional agriculture.
this sustainable form of agriculture is capable of developing regional autonomy, ensuring food security and covering both ecological and social aspects.
the eu cannot preach environmental friendliness, make car driving more expensive with bio-diesel regulations, and then cut off secondary lines from rail traffic with privatisation regulations and dictate freight corridors on the major routes at the expense of passenger traffic.
this includes a healthy environment, and this includes healthy food.
this includes eating healthy food from a healthy environment and getting adequate exercise.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation.
it is essential that sustainable technologies be developed and promoted, especially at a time of increasingly scarce resources.
the sooner the eu has managed the consequences of the crises, the sooner long-term and sustainable development assistance will be possible.
these guidelines incorporate equality between women and men as a necessary element not only for the recovery of employment in the crisis, but also for the realisation of the new model of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth for the next decade.
because it must also be a sustainable social model that must cater for a population that is expected to age significantly in the next twenty years and whose care cannot continue to be exclusively in the hands of women.
but as we all know, it is extremely important to deepen relations with russia, because, in terms of energy policy alone, russia is probably europe's most important partner.
− especially at a time when nuclear energy, backed by billions of dollars in subsidies, is being marketed as climate-friendly, it is important to promote the expansion of renewable energy not only in the eu but also worldwide.
i can only advise all of us to protect our environment.
natural disasters of this magnitude have drastic consequences for the countries concerned, not only in terms of humanitarian and environmental impact, but also in terms of economic impact.
the european parliament's commitment to promoting the sustainable development of aquaculture and its emphasis on its overall importance is very welcome.
in many member states, pond management and fish farming are already subject to high environmental standards and requirements.
but today i would like to speak primarily in my capacity as shadow rapporteur on biodiversity and as a member of the environmental health and safety committee.
we need to develop these aquaculture farms in a sustainable way for two reasons - which have been mentioned several times today - namely, on the one hand, because we want europeans to eat a healthy diet, and to do that we need healthy food from a healthy environment.
the sustainable development of aquaculture is the key to meeting both these needs.
i would also like to ask that special attention be paid to research and development and that the appropriate financial framework be set up so that we can guarantee its sustainability in the future.
if you add to this the fact that the waste from feedingstuffs, faeces and antibiotics used in fish farming are a major source of pollution, it becomes clear that only if clear guidelines are set can aquaculture be a truly environmentally friendly alternative.
i consider it particularly important to intensify relations between the eu and russia, not only for reasons of energy policy but also for historical and cultural reasons.
- i am in favour of the sustainable development of european aquaculture, fish farming and pond management, and of the establishment of better conditions leading to an increase in their competitiveness.
for these reasons, i support the european parliament resolution p7_ta(2010) 0243 on the sustainable development of european aquaculture.
i would like to make a few brief comments on the basic elements of europe 2020. progress can certainly be made when the work for more growth is combined with the goal of sustainability.
i think we have succeeded in resolving a quasi-contradiction, because we all want to expand transport systems, but also a sustainable future.
the report sets out the conditions for making this future truly sustainable, and i only hope that we will succeed in putting these conditions into practice here, so that they can be lived on the ground.
we have just recently established the 'niederösterreich mobil' platform in lower austria, a platform where all stakeholders and stakeholders work together to create future and sustainable local mobility.
and with regard to the danube strategy, i would like to stress that we need to develop the danube, but above all taking into account this particularly sensitive ecosystem.
would it not be useful, in the interests of sustainable transport, to stagger and coordinate the different holiday arrangements of the member states at european level?
the european transport network is heavily congested, citizens spend hours commuting to holiday destinations, and the negative consequences of these seasonal peaks are obvious both for the environment and for citizens and consumers.
the creation of sustainable jobs, the promotion of education and training and the promotion of equal opportunities for women and men are important issues to be addressed.
− the eu has signed many environmental and animal welfare documents, but it often fails to implement and control them, for example in the area of fishing quotas.
although under certain conditions aquaculture can be a source of environmental relief.
in general, the delicate balance between environmental and animal welfare and the economy must be maintained.
- we are still far from achieving sustainability in transport.
i support the rapporteur's proposals to promote the creation of sustainable jobs and to promote training and further training, while at the same time, through active consultation, strengthening the plans of the unemployed and those seeking employment and reintegrating them into the world of work.
- it is important to make good use of existing raw materials in the interests of the environment, which means recycling bio-waste where waste cannot be avoided.
citizens' environmental awareness is constantly increasing and is helping to achieve the goal of protecting the environment and climate.
there are traditional differences between member states in how bio-waste is used, for example, for energy production.
the system of paying out only a part of the bonuses, in this case 20 or 30%, encourages efforts towards more sustainable corporate governance.
this is a fundamental change towards more sustainability, towards economic efficiency and please away from gambling.
reducing red tape, simplifying, improving efficiency - three keywords that stand for the right approach to change the existing directive on industrial emissions.
we need the associated efficiency gains to protect our environment more effectively.
in recent years, new technologies and sustainable farming have reduced co2 emissions by 12%.
the agricultural sector is thus at the forefront of climate and environmental protection.
the creation of minimum standards and the resulting reduction in pollution will also require industry to make a concrete contribution to the protection of our environment.
industrial activities require a high level of environmental protection.
this applies in particular to air pollution control, water protection and biodiversity.
at present, european regulations on industrial environmental protection are too fragmented and do not yet achieve the desired level of use of best available techniques to raise the level of environmental protection.
the central strategy is to tackle pollution at source.
the second implementation report in 2019 will show whether the use of best available techniques is now the norm in the eu to ensure a high level of environmental protection in the industrial sector.
2010 is the year of biodiversity and this regulation creates an important prerequisite for action against climate change and for the conservation of biodiversity.
this deforestation accounts for 20% of global co2 emissions and is a major cause of biodiversity loss.
by prohibiting the placing on the european market of illegally harvested timber or timber products, the european union is demonstrating that it takes its responsibility for the conservation of biodiversity seriously.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment.
the decision today is therefore intended to bring moderation to managers and more sustainable thinking.
the measure of paying out only part of the bonuses is intended to create an incentive for sustainable economic activities and to deter irresponsible risk-taking.
− while it is good that the eu is committed to environmental protection, this document is essentially a revision of existing texts and does not introduce any new elements in the field of industrial emissions.
but disasters like this again make you want to check the whole energy field.
i think we are becoming aware that this dependence on fossil fuels has many, many risks, and when we think about the future of energy supply in europe, we must always take this into account.
that is why our very strong criticism of renewable energy sources, whether it be the sustainability criteria for biofuels or the ugly landscapes with wind turbines, must always be seen under the assumption that the alternatives are actually more dangerous, conventional energy sources.
the global consequences for the ecosystem are devastating.
moreover, a greater focus on renewable energy can be a response to the world's increasing energy consumption.
bp's risk analysis for the oil rig assessed the possibility of an accident with serious environmental hazards as unlikely or almost impossible.
i can only support, commissioner oettinger, your efforts to achieve the highest level of safety from a european point of view, in the interests of healthy people and a healthy environment.
the second pillar is particularly important for my country, austria, when we consider specific environmental and investment programmes.
the world's population is estimated to grow to nine billion people, and at the same time, we are facing the effects of climate change, such as water scarcity and drought.
in europe we have great legislation, including on the future of biodiversity.
we would like to hear from you how you intend to ensure that food safety, consumer protection, animal welfare and environmental protection are respected in this trade agreement.
i think we've talked a lot about sustainability, we've been talking about sustainability for two hours, but there's certainly one thing that's not sustainable - because obviously every president has exactly the same problem: that you don't know when to sign up so that you're taken into account.
let us know if there is no obvious desire to talk about such an important topic as sustainability.
sustainability is obviously not possible here if you have to ask every president to come to his parliamentary right and speak here.
another problem is that the eu imposes high standards of quality, animal welfare and environmental protection on its farmers, but then allows imports from countries where these standards do not apply and where production is naturally much cheaper.
− the sustainable development of european aquaculture, fish farming and pond management, and the establishment of a better framework are essential for the competitiveness of the european fisheries industry.
as in the agricultural sector, we impose high environmental, animal welfare and quality standards on our domestic fish suppliers, which are naturally reflected in the price.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the dangers of ionising radiation.
the content of free trade agreements must be tailored to the specific situation of the countries concerned, particularly in the areas of trade, social and environmental standards.
i welcome the commission's proposal for a declaration on social and environmental standards.
and there is uncertainty within the profession as to the direction that agricultural policy in europe will take, what kind of agricultural production will be required in europe in the future: only intensive, productive and industrialised agriculture or multifunctional, sustainable and above all all all all-encompassing agriculture?
society expects the right policy measures to ensure sustainable production in europe!
the eu's food prices are so high that it is difficult for an eu producer to compete without them, and so high are our social, quality, animal welfare and environmental standards - the standards we cannot or do not want to control when importing food.
the peasant woman is an elementary element in the rural environment and in the rural structure.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european network of national experts in the field of the environment.
this can only be achieved through a sustainable economic model that brings a wide range of positive side effects for the environment and for our citizens.
a stable framework must be created in which the eu's green employment potential can be fully developed, in order to ensure the sustainable development of the economy.
i am voting for this report because economic growth, environmental protection and social cohesion go hand in hand and complement each other.
not only should new 'green' jobs be sustainable, but the economy and society as a whole should contribute to this new way of doing business.
the potential of the green economy must be fully exploited, and europe's global role as a progressive, sustainable and environmentally-friendly economic union must be further enhanced.
for example, it refers to optimised employment potential for women and men in the new sustainable economy, decent work, socially just change and meeting skills needs.
i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
it is not possible, of course, to have unrestricted freedom of movement in the eu - mobility, as has been called for on several occasions today - on the one hand, and the waste of passports and citizenship on the other, thus encouraging uncontrolled immigration into europe.
i am particularly concerned not just with the creation of jobs, but with the creation of high-quality, sustainable, good jobs.
i have to say, madam president, the 2011 budget is currently being discussed and in this context the council has proposed, together with the commission, to make available funds from the competitiveness innovation programme, which includes the 'intelligent energy for europe' programme, the ict support programme and the 'entrepreneurship and innovation' programme, but also funds from the seventh framework programme, as well as agricultural funds for the iter fusion reactor science project.
the commission has also taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's policy on the environment is not distorted.
20% less greenhouse gas emissions, 20% share of renewable energy, with 10% of fuels to come from renewable sources.
these are the european union's ambitious objectives to combat climate change and achieve energy independence.
the regulatory environment should be strongly improved.
however, if the advertising industry is the only one to be considered as a postal user, then there will of course be a success, because the business environment has undoubtedly improved for them.
the commission has also been active in the area of environmental legislation, with a number of initiatives in the field of environmental protection, such as the european environmental audit, where member states have delayed implementation in order to avoid it for large projects such as the temelin extension.
the european union and turkey have very good economic relations and of course we need to continue to develop trade with turkey, so as to bring about sustainable economic growth for the european union on the one hand and for turkey on the other.
the facts and figures are on the table, they are in this report, and it is clear that we have a moral obligation to preserve biodiversity, but also an ecological and an economic one.
many citizens do not mind that biodiversity is being defended, people understand that.
biodiversity is a matter for all of us.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
the massive bee deaths in recent years, which are not yet clear whether they are due to a reduction in biodiversity or to genetically engineered plants, show that our knowledge is flawed.
not only are the effects of biodiversity on the stability of ecosystems still largely unknown, we don't even know regionally what variability is present in an area.
the year of biodiversity 2010 should therefore be used to fill gaps in knowledge and raise awareness.
on the one hand, to enable countries and municipalities to include biodiversity considerations in sustainable development of settlements, but also in wetland protection, water restoration and so on, on the other hand, so that the average citizen can make his contribution.
the agricultural reform can be used to move away from mass production towards more sustainability and the promotion of landscape management.
we also need to develop strategies to ensure that energy plantations and biodiversity do not compete for the same area.
the commission has recently published a report by the jacques delors group on the possibility of establishing a european energy community.
i am very glad that he is doing so, because i believe that it would be a very important element in the progress, in the advancement of the european unification process, that we establish here a common european community on energy matters without changing the treaty.
i think that the commissioner has mentioned this too, and the more we go into solar energy, into wind energy, the more we have to expand, because then we have to ensure, together with increased storage capacity, that if solar or wind energy is not being supplied at the moment in the right quantities, other energy producers can take over.
if we are to face them, we must face them together - in the sense of a common european external energy policy, but perhaps also in the sense of a common action by european gas companies to obtain better prices and better conditions and, of course, the development of infrastructure such as nabucco and others.
the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that the community is not able to take action on its own.
the next gas dispute will show whether the european energy early warning system is worth the paper it is printed on and whether the competence salad after lisbon has been solved.
on the other hand, the basic powers of energy policy should remain in national hands, and the report goes too far in some respects.
− 2010 is the year of biodiversity.
the report by mrs esther de lange is a positive contribution to the conservation of biodiversity.
i support this forward-looking report because i am convinced that initiatives to conserve biodiversity are essential to avoid future conflicts.
a healthy environment, biodiversity, the protection of fertile soils and clean waters are the basic prerequisites for ensuring the food supply of the world's population for future generations.
but biodiversity is unthinkable without farmers.
agriculture is already making a major contribution to environmental and climate protection, for example by storing co2 in the soil or by using natural methods.
i would like to emphasize one more thing in the current economic climate: i do not understand the idea of using the red pen in education, lifelong learning and social action.
where do you need to show more energy, more focus, more commitment?
however, they make a very important contribution to the conservation of the alpine region and thus to sustainability.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european environment agency.
in the current economic climate, efforts must be directed towards a possible re-definition of priorities within the budget, taking into account the european added value of the eu budget.
if we do not want to see a deserted and desolated area, it is not enough to promote these areas separately, for example in the context of landscape conservation, but geographical and economic weaknesses must be balanced in a sustainable way.
however, they make a very important contribution to landscape conservation, sustainable management, organic food production and alpine tourism.
in addition to peace efforts in the balkans, it is important to improve relations with russia, another country not included in the european neighbourhood strategy, although it is an important strategic partner for europe not only in terms of energy supply.
the starting point for all of us must be to create the highest safety standards for people, for the environment, so that such disasters can be prevented in the first place.
however, i would say that it is important that we continue to explore for oil and gas in europe as a whole in order to diversify our energy sources.
i am thinking of the seveso ii directive, the environmental liability directive and the third maritime safety package.
this is all the more so since the commission is apparently planning a carbon pipeline network and wants to sell emissions from european power stations to the north sea oil industry.
we have not even got the disposal of nuclear waste under control, although this technology has been used for decades, and now suddenly dangerous greenhouse gases are to be dumped into the north sea.
all necessary steps must therefore be taken to ensure that such an environmental disaster never occurs in eu waters.
secondly, to ensure the highest safety standards and to create binding eu minimum safety standards, and thirdly, to guarantee the highest environmental protection standards.
i think it is of the utmost importance to examine the ability to respond to accidents and to create a common european and hopefully also a worldwide system to prevent such environmental disasters.
and one of them is, quite rightly, biodiversity.
as you know, the conference on biodiversity is coming up in nagoya, and i have the honour and pleasure of being a member of the parliamentary delegation and co-author of the resolution to be voted on in nagoya to promote biodiversity.
while the european union and many authorities in the member states are working very intensively and with the commitment and support of ngos to protect species, this conversation once again showed that for many people, protecting and preserving biodiversity is a kind of luxury.
so for the people, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of conservation and biodiversity is hardly a priority.
the issue of biodiversity is also far from being as high on the political agenda as issues such as economic growth or security.
because what is often forgotten in the discussion of biodiversity is the role of animals and plants in our ecosystem.
with vital goods and services such as food supply, carbon sequestration and water regulation forming the basis for economic prosperity, social well-being and quality of life, it is an essential element of sustainable development.
this may result in these habitats no longer being able to provide the valuable goods and services of the ecosystem.
some regions with high biodiversity are also declining.
ladies and gentlemen, this year is the year of biodiversity, it is already october, and this news has not yet reached many europeans.
let us work together to ensure that biodiversity is given the value it deserves and needs to provide its ecological services in the future.
i don't have the details, but it actually shows us that the debate about biodiversity has obviously not arrived in europe yet.
fisheries ministers are likely to decide on increased fishing quotas again, and biodiversity is again a marginal issue.
i have to say, madam president, 2010 is the international year of biodiversity.
at european level, there are already excellent instruments for the protection of biodiversity.
biodiversity is and remains an important issue for the european union.
biodiversity goes hand in hand with safeguarding europe's food supply and thus offers a promising future for future generations.
european agriculture is aware of its important role as a promoter and preserver of biodiversity.
through soil carbon sequestration or nature-friendly farming, our eu farmers are actively contributing to the conservation of biodiversity through their activities.
the european citizens must be made aware of and mobilised to promote the fundamental importance of biodiversity for our nature, our economy, our lives and the future of our children.
we want a europe of a sustainable social market economy, of fundamental rights, without discrimination, full employment, a comprehensive social clause, social cohesion and services of general interest, defined in a subsidiary way.
the future challenges for our cohesion policy - globalisation, demographic change, climate change and energy supply - are all interlinked in a very complex way.
we must therefore make cohesion policy more efficient, that is, we must make each project more sustainable.
− biodiversity is the basis of life for all people, which implies that biodiversity and natural habitats must be preserved.
the decline in biodiversity and ecological systems is particularly acute for poor populations, who are often dependent on natural products for their survival.
− although studies estimate the current loss of wealth due to biodiversity losses at around eur 50 billion/year, this issue is not on the international political agenda.
at european level, there are already excellent instruments that need to be targeted and coordinated with climate action to maximise the value of investment.
the investment in biodiversity conservation will pay off.
− this report calls for a simple, fair and transparent transition system after 2013. the key challenges of cohesion and regional policy were identified, among others, as climate change, which will also have a considerable impact on the austrian regions, to varying degrees, as tourism and agriculture and forestry will be among the most affected sectors.
−already some 30 years ago, people were thinking about how best to use and manage fisheries resources in a sustainable way.
i would like to ask why the committee on industry, research and energy has not delivered an opinion.
above all, reducing existing unemployment in europe must remain at the heart of our efforts, for example through investment in the economy, industry, tourism, energy and climate policy, by safeguarding existing jobs and creating new ones.
i have a small question about cross compliance and biodiversity, which you have already raised today.
proper farming can help to preserve biodiversity and stop species from dying out.
it is not the commissioner for the environment alone who can create awareness.
the commissioner, my question to you is very specific: what will you do to raise awareness among those concerned - and i mean among policy makers, consumers, but above all among the farmers concerned - of the value of biodiversity and the related ecosystem services?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in all its aspects.
late payment causes serious disruption to the business environment and the internal market and has a direct impact on member states.
we expect to see controls in the future to ensure that the funds are used in a way that is traceable and sustainable.
the creation of the energy community in 2006 has established an integrated european energy market for gas and electricity, and the planned inclusion of ukraine is intended to further strengthen energy supplies to eastern europe.
the commission is called upon to act as the coordinator of the energy community.
the energy supply of our member states must not be allowed to become a frivolous plaything in the price war between russia and ukraine.
so we must have good talks, but we must also be tough and secure the energy supply for our member states.
the climate debate has been transformed into a debate on justice, and at the preparatory conference, emerging markets made it clear that they do not want to make concessions in cancún.
my specific question to the commission is whether the establishment of a tariff quota for ethanol is seen as a really sustainable and efficient way of helping the people of pakistan.
can it be estimated whether the sustainability criteria required for import into the eu are also met for the production of bioethanol?
the measures must be clearly designed to ensure that aid is provided in a sustainable manner.
i have recently had the pleasure of visiting the european production facilities of the international trade committee, small companies which have to produce under very difficult conditions: excellent quality, fair pay, good working conditions, a reasonable working climate.
it is not just the environmental damage that we are suffering from.
it is not enough as we like to do to protect the environment within the eu, as we know, air and water have no borders.
i therefore find it incomprehensible that no clear rules are being made here when rich industrial nations are offloading their environmental problems to the third world.
on the positive side, shipping companies are now taking action on their own in the field of environmental and animal welfare.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take this into account in its future work.
their role in the climate system and thus in human health should not be underestimated.
− it is important and right to support the poorest countries with targeted and sustainable development assistance.
while recognising that smes are the backbone of the european economy, the measures envisaged in the report create a difficult environment for small businesses and craft enterprises in particular.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in addition to fishing quotas, no-take zones and aquaculture regulations, particularly in ecologically sensitive regions, solutions will have to be found for soft coastal tourism, military exercises, shipping, oil and gas extraction, sand and gravel extraction, as well as protection measures against environmental disasters such as the recent toxic mudslides.
i therefore expressly support the amendment tabled on paragraph 30, which states that 'agricultural imports into the eu may only be authorised if they comply with european standards of consumer protection, animal welfare, environmental protection and minimum social standards'.
you mentioned the energy issues.
the commission has today published an energy paper energy 2020 .
we want to do it with them, but they're not the only partners, especially when it comes to climate change.
a second important point where we have similar fundamentals but very different approaches is climate action.
small-volume funds in particular, which have been highly risky businesses, now need to rethink and have the chance to establish themselves with a sustainable business model.
the bonus system we have introduced for bank managers will also be applied to hedge fund managers to ensure sustainability and to minimise risk.
because, moreover, waste, for example, that mining subsidies are paid out to billionaires, are not considered as mistakes.
sustainable animal husbandry policy must take account of all stakeholders, i.e.
− research and development are essential components of healthy economic growth and are essential for the eu's objectives, such as climate change or energy efficiency.
the idea is to address future challenges such as climate change, energy and food security, health and population ageing in a meaningful way and to take them to a transnational level.
the resolution adopted today already contains proposals with a high added value potential: 'smart cities' - with emphasis on improving the efficiency and management of energy, transport and infrastructure, and 'raw materials' - security of supply, including sustainable extraction & processing, recycling and substitution.
critics say the organization has failed to meet the demands of the 21st century, such as the global financial crisis and environmental issues such as climate change.
russia is essential to the eu not only as an energy supplier but also as a strategic partner.
this includes current measures such as organised crime, terrorism, cyber threats, trafficking in human beings and drugs, energy security, and measures related to early warning systems and conflict prevention and management.
in my opinion, the levy system is the most economically sound and sustainable system.
in my opinion, the levy system is the most economically sound and sustainable system.
− to help boost the economy, during the financial crisis that turned into an economic crisis, four to five billion euro from the eu budget was diverted to energy projects from other funding categories that had not been used up.
as announced by the commission in its presentation of the energy strategy 2020, a trillion euros of investment is needed over the next few years to expand europe's outdated electricity grid.
it is expected that it will be the consumer, not the energy sector, who will have to bear the costs.
energy research will be particularly important in this respect, provided that the focus is on technologies which are actually cheaper.
the focus on nuclear power, which is not cost-effective in the face of expensive, unresolved final storage, in addition to potential environmental disasters, must be stopped.
acceptance of unauthorised gmos or setting a threshold 'for accidentally occurring gmos not yet authorised in the eu' - and not yet subject to conclusive scientific testing - would result in a flood of gmo authorisations in the us and especially in developing countries, with an increased risk of health and environmental concern, particularly under the conditions of testing capacity in such countries.
this would mean that non-eu countries would increasingly influence the eu's authorisation practice and thus impose an ever lower level of safety of the authorised gmos in terms of health and the environment.
i believe it will continue to be very important in the future that consumers know what potential environmental toxins they are carrying with them when they buy an electronic or electrical item.
- in recent years, environmental disasters have increased.
in particular, heavy rains are increasingly turning into floods, with devastating environmental consequences and horrific financial losses.
− although the environmental problem is overshadowed by the middle east conflict, there is a foreseeable future need for technology in these regions.
the drinking water strategy of jordan and israel is gradually leading to a reduction in the river's flow and an increase in water pollution.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
traditional, smaller-scale coastal fisheries may be more likely to ensure sustainable management of fish stocks.
the loss of species in aquaculture is also increasing, and in the long term this is damaging the whole ecosystem.
i reject the subsidy because i believe that the use of coal and the associated co2 emissions are in principle contrary to climate protection.
money that could be invested in renewable energy is literally being thrown into a deep pit.
i believe that the key issue is to look for sustainable alternatives to energy production.
the green group's argument that this is harmful to the environment is a false one.
commissioner oettinger has recently published a series of documents on energy policy, involving huge investments.
i wonder where, for example, in the energy sector or in the transport sector, investment can be made to achieve this green growth or this green job creation.
competitiveness is a key issue that we need to address if europe is to remain competitive in order to achieve our objectives of sustainable growth and social growth.
we must ask the commission to place its overall programmes for the next few years under the heading 'increasing efficiency', namely increasing efficiency in the field of energy, in the field of the use of resources and raw materials, but also in the field of education.
the aim is to provide young people with new, sustainable skills adapted to the new conditions of the labour market.
it is in these difficult times that there is an opportunity to invest in renewable energy and energy efficiency, for example, and thus to strengthen environmental and growth policies.
the extension of the directive is also intended to cover the treatment of hazardous waste.
this, together with the shorter and shorter innovation cycles, is also leading to more and more electricity waste.
the new version of the rohs directive addresses hazardous substances which could harm the environment and human health.
on the other hand, the results of the commission's study do not seem to be entirely conclusive, at least as regards the potential damage to the environment.
however, i agree with mrs van brempt, mr turmes and others that we must go a step further, because - if i may say so - a sensible, ecological energy policy is almost like a carrier rocket for green growth, for green jobs.
of course, some things in the environmentally oriented energy policy are even more expensive today.
but when you think about environmental profitability, what it means for european industry to be a leader, it is also very important for jobs.
i agree with mr reul that we need a lot of energy sources.
but we must know where energy efficiency, energy saving and renewable energy are going, because these are the engines of a future european economy.
i am really shocked by what people like mr griffin are spreading in the name of climate change.
so what fascism has to do with climate change is an absolute mystery to me.
i'm also concerned that we really have an increasing rate of greenhouse gases in our atmosphere.
this needs to be communicated, and if we can't do that, we don't have the support of the public, and that's why people like griffin can also link fascism to climate change.
secondly, let us create the energy revolution with the incentives we value.
because weather is a local phenomenon, and we're talking about climate, a long-term global phenomenon.
parliament has already made a clear commitment to climate action on several occasions.
the environment ministers, who are often very ambitious, are often left alone.
it will respond to climate change with all its adverse consequences for man, indeed for mankind.
the climate conferences are aimed at getting a successor to the kyoto protocol, which expires in 2012. progress in the fight against climate change is more than urgently needed.
overall, the eu is on a relatively good track to meet its climate targets.
but it is urgent that we in the eu, with the us and china on board, seek a legal basis for a global climate agreement.
in these difficult times, strengthening environmental policy is also a huge opportunity for economic policy, for example by investing in renewable energy and energy efficiency.
scientists are explicitly warning of the ecological disaster that is looming: no access to water for the animals, collapse of the ecosystem, destruction of biodiversity and damage to local tourism, which accounts for at least 23% of tanzania's income.
i therefore appeal to the council and the commission to say a clear no to this ecological and economic madness.
the european union has a great responsibility in the areas of human rights, social standards and environmental protection in its existing and future trade relations.
in each negotiation, the eu can make a statement and demand fair employment conditions and sustainable use of resources.
the report also mentions the apparent negative effects of climate change.
the problem of anti-dumping shows the importance of including environmental and social standards and the use of trade policy safeguards in the negotiation of free trade agreements with third countries.
we must not open the door to social dumping, but must also integrate sustainable approaches into trade agreements.
this clearly shows the european parliament's concerns about social, environmental and production standards.
and the implementation of european waste hierarchies, for example, is still not complete.
the commission has intervened, but this intervention has not led to the fact that what we have recognized as correct and important in europe in the field of waste disposal is finally being implemented there.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the dangers of ionizing radiation.
the commission has also been very active in the field of the environment, and has been very active in the field of the environment.
- i voted for the report because human rights, social standards and environmental standards should apply not only in europe but in all countries.
it is the direction of fair trade and above all fairness to people and the environment.
this means that more attention should be paid to human rights, environmental and social standards.
however, the eu is constantly pushing its limits, especially in the area of human rights, social and environmental standards, when other countries with which it has bilateral trade agreements have different views on these issues.
the commission has also been very active in the field of the environment, and has been very active in the field of the environment.
factors such as the use of pesticides, unsustainable farming methods, the lack of food due to the increased cultivation of monocultures, climate change, as well as pathogens and parasites, all contribute to a significant decline in honeybee numbers.
this has an economic impact as well as an environmental one, since more and more honey has to be imported.
this has negative effects on the whole environment and agriculture, as bees act as important pollinators.
although we must move away from fossil energy, nuclear energy is not an alternative here.
the potential for danger is still too great and the question of the final disposal of nuclear waste is still unresolved.
the promotion of carbon poverty is a well-known argument of the nuclear lobby to downplay nuclear energy.
but even climate change cannot be used as a justification for the expansion of nuclear energy.
− a sustainable european energy strategy is the basic prerequisite for ensuring energy security and must therefore cover all aspects of energy supply.
optimal energy supply is also important for a thriving economy, providing and creating employment.
the energy sector must also have the necessary resources to ensure independence and security of supply.
the signs of the future must be recognised and investments made in renewable energy sources and green technologies.
i support the aspects of the report which call for action to develop a sustainable energy policy in europe with a strong international presence.
- the rapporteur's report aims to improve energy supply in europe, which is desirable in itself.
but this will be achieved by increasing the eu's influence in the energy sector.
energy policy is a very country-specific matter.
there is no consensus in europe on the use of nuclear energy and renewable energy sources in particular.
that is why, and because i am convinced that we should still be able to determine for ourselves the form in which we obtain our energy, i am convinced that it is more sensible to leave energy policy in the hands of the nation states.
− i regret that the european parliament did not find a majority in the resolution on the climate conference calling for a global tax on financial transactions, the proceeds of which could be used, among other things, to combat deforestation and desertification.
i am pleased that the objective of limiting global warming to at least 2 degrees has been adopted, without excluding from the negotiations a limit of 1.5 degrees celsius, in order to ensure the survival of all countries, peoples and ecosystems.
− the forthcoming cancún climate conference is expected to agree on binding global limits for co2 emissions, as the kyoto protocol expires in 2012. while the european union is committed to a 20% reduction in co2 emissions by the end of the decade, parliament is even calling for a 30% reduction.
so far, the climate targets have not been met, and setting a high percentage will not improve this.
especially if emissions have been partly shifted with emissions trading.
we have a strong environmental awareness here in europe which is far from being present in some of the so-called emerging countries.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the effects of the crisis.
− the fact that the european economy has had to reduce its production due to the crisis and now produces fewer emissions is not an argument for the reduction of co2 emissions to 30 per cent called for by eu climate commissioner hedegaard, after the minus 20 per cent mark due to the economic crisis was now easily achievable.
but climate action can only be successful if it is undertaken globally.
it is of little use to reduce co2 emissions throughout the eu while at the same time exporting climate-damaging industries and the special waste of the industrial nations to the third world.
so yes, to climate change, but not at the expense of companies and not alone.
− the eu has a responsibility to integrate environmental aspects of trade into its international trade policy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
in the interests of enhanced sustainable growth and increased competitiveness, particular attention must be paid to eu cohesion policy.
the tasks of eu farmers are diverse and increasingly responsible: producing food at the highest quality and animal welfare standards, while respecting the climate, the environment and biodiversity.
the common objective is to limit global warming to the famous 2 degrees celsius.
we must break the equation that more economic growth means more energy consumption.
we are particularly challenged here as politicians, because we have the normal technological progress, which is also characterized by the fact that we have more energy-efficient products and economic methods.
but we have to be able to reduce our energy bills, despite higher economic growth.
economic history also shows that the societies that have been most successful in the long term have been those that have put this efficiency - whether in the raw materials sector or in the energy sector - on their banners, and we europeans with our high standard of living are particularly challenged here.
we need to drive energy efficiency if we are to realistically achieve our climate goals.
it would also be a great opportunity to attract cities and municipalities to a major european project on energy efficiency, energy saving and, of course, other areas of energy policy.
the commission's commitment to sustainable and inclusive growth takes into account the 2020 environmental and climate objectives and calls for investment in green technologies, which will create jobs.
this includes in particular the democratisation of africa, the improvement of the living conditions of the people in africa, but also the sustainable extraction of raw materials, which benefits both sides.
instead of questioning the european practice of export subsidies, which seriously undermines the self-sustainability of african states, they lose themselves in empty words.
− improving energy efficiency across the eu is a key requirement for a sustainable european energy strategy.
it is the most cost-effective and fastest way of reducing co2 emissions while increasing security of supply.
i welcome the fact that the report highlights increased investment in energy efficiency in buildings, the creation of new jobs in the construction sector and in smes, and that these measures can help households to reduce their expenditure by up to eur 1 000. the need to improve the energy efficiency of the whole transport system by shifting transport from energy-intensive modes such as lorries and cars to energy-saving modes such as rail is also highlighted.
i welcome the aspects of the report which call on the commission and the member states to give due consideration to the field of energy efficiency, while ensuring that the many legal requirements already in place at eu and national level in this area are also respected.
− energy efficiency is a field with great future potential, where the eu has already gained a lot of experience and where the leading technology players are located in the eu member states.
in addition to the obvious environmental benefits, this sector also has the potential to stimulate economic growth and create jobs.
of course, these can offer enormous potential for energy savings.
finally, we must not go so far as to impose energy efficiency measures which are so expensive to implement that people cannot afford to live in them.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of national experts in the field of environmental protection.