finally, the revision of the cotonou agreement should provide for an increase in aid and financing to acp countries to help them take action to deal with climate change.
they are the only safeguards against the hateful climate that is creeping into our own countries.
so my second priority is to try to find another strategy for the post-copenhagen, for the climate change issue.
the first is that we must appoint a figure within the european union who is responsible for the matter, a mr or mrs climate change, who would have the competence to negotiate on behalf of the 27 member states, not as was the case in copenhagen, where the danish prime minister, the swedish prime minister, the president of the commission, mr sarkozy, mrs merkel, yourself, mr brown were present.
and this common interest is, in my view, the mechanism of emissions trading.
the aim is to eradicate poverty and gradually integrate the acp countries into the world economy, while maintaining the objective of sustainable development.
the review comes at a time of global financial crisis, rapid climate change, food and energy prices under pressure, and the debate over land use and the sustainability of foreign investment.
it's time to tackle climate change holistically and make a big push for renewable energy.
mr president, i support the environmental goals for 2020, but i have some serious doubts about some methods.
i'm thinking in particular about what we can do to get to a more sustainable transport system.
the targets prescribed that we would try to reduce aviation emissions by 10% by 2020 through the international civil aviation organization (icao), but also to achieve a 20% reduction in maritime emissions through the international maritime organization.
on the subject of intra-european transport, i heard commissioner-designate hedegaard defend an ambitious transport package for the climate at the hearings.
mr kallas seemed a little less clear, but i would remind the commission that transport is responsible for 25% of co2 emissions.
you need a mix of measures, but i ask you to work on them and thereby contribute a major stone to a more sustainable policy.
this sector is one of the most fundamental parts of the fight against climate change.
european agriculture is preparing to move towards more sustainable production models, with more responsible water management, less energy-intensive models, less dependent on chemicals, aware that biodiversity and the preservation of ecosystems are both key to reducing environmental pollution.
- after the failure of copenhagen, we can sit here and whine and complain on the sidelines, but that is a waste of energy.
europe is the only continent with concrete and ambitious laws to reduce co2 emissions.
all consumer products that the chinese want to sell in europe in the near future will have to meet the strictest european environmental standards.
that is not enough, but what makes me optimistic is the realisation that investing in the climate is also good for your own pocketbook, for the economy and therefore also for employment.
because this key trading player, this country that has a permanent seat on the un security council, that is growing and developing a democracy, that we need to fight climate change, this country needs to be a partner, that we tell its four truths, but that we respect for the efforts it makes.
finally, to put member states' taxation on a sustainable basis will require far more profound changes: to continue reducing burdens on labour income and to compensate for this by introducing a progressive taxation on energy on non-renewable resources and a taxation on financial transactions and capital gains.
and i also expect - and i agree with what mr belet has said - that there will be very concrete plans to put the car industry back on track and indeed to give it a future geared to what we greens call the green new deal, the combination of climate action and ecologically sound approaches.
the chemistry is related to european climate policy.
after the failure of the copenhagen conference, will europe embark on a single-track approach to reduce co2 emissions by 20% by 2020?
the fact that we have not had a commission with real powers for six months is something that should not happen again in the future, especially in this period of economic and financial crisis, when there are big issues like climate change, copenhagen and so on.
the same is true in other areas – on climate change, on foreign policy and on defence policy.
the challenge remains to ensure coherence between the different policy areas, such as environment, social and economic, and to ensure that external communication is such that eu policy is more transparent and understandable to all citizens.
the blind focus on liberalisation, high stock market prices and macroeconomic growth has obscured the social and sustainable face of the eu.
the way in which man is dealing with natural resources, the way in which man is destroying habitats and overexploiting wild plants and animals, the way in which man is illegally trading in wild fauna and flora, all this means a continuous deterioration of biodiversity on spaceship earth.
and that biodiversity is crucial.
i therefore ask all colleagues, especially those from the southern countries, the epp, the s&d, to make very explicit efforts to ensure that the recommendation of the committee on the environment to keep bluefin tuna in cites annex i is upheld.
i am therefore pleased that the structural funds are increasingly taking into account the financing of investments in the housing sector, particularly in the field of energy efficiency, but we must go further.
it has recently become clear that they are also active in the framework of the emissions trading scheme.
the traders buy carbon credits from vat-free sources in other member states and sell them to companies in their member state at a price including vat.
the problems are well known: the un method no longer works, the united states and china have behaved as adversaries in the fight against climate change, and the european union has not been able to speak with one voice.
to maintain its leadership, europe will need to be climate innovative and offer something other than the single goal of global emission reductions through the highly speculative greenhouse gas emissions trading system, a tool that the us government has just rejected.
it is time to change the method and propose a 'technological' bridge between industrialized countries and regions and micro-states that are mainly exposed to climate change.
the hopes of tomorrow, those of an agreement at the next cancún summit, the most important ones of a common world vision, will come from the addition of ambitious measures in the field of clean technologies, energy efficiency in buildings and transport, and the promotion of green jobs.
- i voted in favour of this resolution because it calls for a stronger stance in the negotiations on a global climate policy.
moreover, the absence of an international agreement is no reason to delay further eu policy action to deliver on earlier eu commitments to reduce its emissions by 20% by 2020. the ep reiterated its intention to reduce the rate to 30%.
the ep is right to state explicitly that the initiatives taken to promote and encourage the green economy, the security of energy supply and the reduction of energy dependence will make it increasingly easier to meet a 30% reduction commitment.
hence the important self-criticism that the eu has been unable to build confidence in the negotiations through previous specific commitments to international public financing of climate efforts in developing countries.
the fishermen are fiercely opposed to the ban, and scientists and environmental experts are sounding the alarm.
- i voted in favour despite the fact that i thought the original text of the committee on the environment was stronger, especially as regards the reference to bluefin tuna.
the whole process was also accompanied by a constant dialogue with civil society and a comprehensive trade sustainable impact assessment.
the fta would also break new ground in promoting the protection of the environment and respect for labour rights, containing comprehensive commitments on a range of social and environmental standards.
ambitious, for one, in terms of reducing our ecological footprint.
so it's not just about climate, and from that perspective, to get back to the -20% figure seems to us to be quite below what is really needed.
without strong fiscal convergence, we will not be able to both rebalance our public finances and put our taxation on a sustainable footing.
we think of energy, we think, of course, of taxation on financial transactions.
the structural problems identified, such as overfishing, underinvestment, overcapacity of the fishing fleet and waste (how many tonnes of fish are discarded daily because they are unfit for consumption?
all the more reason to opt for small-scale, innovative and sustainable fishing.
on the one hand, the report states that european fishing fleets should no longer overfish the waters of developing countries, but on the other hand it also states that fisheries policy always takes precedence over environmental and development policy.
the report also acknowledges that there is a major problem of overfishing and that sustainability should be the guiding principle of policy, but it fails to recognise that the capacity of fishing fleets and the subsidy and quota systems are at the heart of this problem.
it is becoming increasingly clear that consumers must now play a responsible and active role in sustainable, ethical, social and ecological consumption.
the picture must therefore be reoriented and include indicators on the social and environmental aspects of these choices, which are becoming increasingly important.
finally, the examination of the acquis should include legislation on energy consumption, transport, the environment, digital technology, etc.
the need to include long-term indicators in the consumer markets scoreboard, for example market shares, quality, advertising, transparency and comparability of offers, enforcement and consumer empowerment indicators, social, environmental and ethical indicators, and indicators for measuring consumer recovery and harm, is also of great importance.
the only two points of disagreement i see in this report are the rejection of the green amendment to draw lessons from the energy market failure and our amendment calling for a revision of the toy directive.
commissioner, i am delighted to welcome you for your first presentation and to repeat what i said to you at your hearing, to congratulate you on the enthusiasm you are instilling in our debates, you who are embodying climate diplomacy in some way, with, of course, our parliament at your side again and again.
my question, which will be easy for you, is somewhat similar to that of my chairman of the committee on the environment, since i am also convinced that europe must now make sure that the climate dimension is systematically integrated into all its trade agreements with third countries, with a european carbon tax if that is the only language understood by those who do not want to grasp the scale of the challenge.
another question, perhaps a little more iconoclastic, from me, a proposal that calls for a reaction from you in any case: could not the european parliament and the commission, the institutions, also set an example by declaring themselves carbon neutral, that is to say by offsetting their co2 emissions to at least assume - but this is only one aspect - the environmental cost of our travel in strasbourg?
too many women are victims of violence, often physical, of course, but also verbal, psychological and often in the family environment, and are ashamed to admit it.
but a number of events have also illustrated this clearly: i am not going to go into the details of the situation, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of putting forward a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
- the adoption of the 'small business act' by parliament in march 2009 launched a series of policy proposals to make the business environment in europe more sme-friendly, including through administrative simplification.
there were high hopes for the lisbon strategy, whose economic, social and environmental objectives were as necessary as they were ambitious.
environmental dimension do not occupy a transversal place.
we are still a long way from a truly comprehensive strategy for sustainable development!
it must also take account of the negotiations that await it in the fields of energy, climate, industry and agriculture.
greens and environmentalists want the eu 2020 strategy to be transformed from a purely gdp growth strategy into a broader political concept of the eu's future as a social and sustainable union that puts people and environmental protection at the centre of policy and aims to create wellbeing and the best opportunities for all.
in our view, gdp should include a range of indicators of well-being, as well as indicators which take account of broad external economic factors and pressures on the environment.
then we are facing climate change and resource scarcity, and all this means there is a need for investment in infrastructure, in education, in research and innovation, etc.
we need to implement the financial transaction tax; we need to implement the carbon tax, both to shift behaviour and to provide income.
the lesson that i take from copenhagen is not just that we missed the climate agreement.
you said in your reply that the council is very aware of the balance of the commission's proposal between the economic, the ecological and the social aspects.
you have indeed achieved results in the field of the labour market and r & d. you've been preaching the status quo on climate policy.
he also points out that we must compete in a global context, that we must therefore take account of the competitiveness of our maritime sector, but at the same time we must also strive for more sustainable transport and that we must therefore, in other words, counter the risk of de-flagging.
the second important point - and this has been mentioned many times - is the impact of shipping on the environment.
it is a sustainable means of transport in itself, but there is still much room for improvement.
the only way to create an attractive profession is to have it in a safe environment.
let us work towards an attractive investment project on the railway that is good for the citizen, good for the environment and good for employment in the context of eu 2020.
mr president, chaos, paralysis, cacophony, catastrophe, disaster - there is no shortage of words in the press to describe the closure of european airspace and its consequences.
a critical attitude on the part of the committee on budgetary control has led, for example, to the introduction of a statute for members of parliament, to the introduction of a statute for assistants, to our critical examination of the purchase of buildings here in strasbourg, to the introduction of an emas procedure which has reduced the environmental impact of our work.
we've managed to reduce co2 emissions by 17%.
we've managed to reduce our waste streams by 50%, compost or reuse.
all initiatives to reduce global warming are welcome.
as was the case yesterday in the european parliament, where 1 500 elected representatives from major european cities pledged to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions by more than 20% by 2020. the adoption today of the le foll report on the adaptation of european agriculture to climate change is part of this same logic.
it should be noted that the agricultural sector is responsible for almost 10% of co2 emissions.
agriculture has much to gain from anticipating the adverse effects of climate change: flooded areas, reduced arable land, deforestation, uneven yields.
the sustainable aspect of agriculture must therefore be promoted.
clearly, european agriculture has a major role to play in the fight against climate change.
there are ways: fixing carbon sinks, supplying renewable energy, new irrigation techniques.
i voted in favour of my colleague, mr le foll's report, because i am convinced of the important role that our agriculture will play in the fight against global warming.
i welcome the adoption of paragraphs 18 and 20 on respecting and improving soil quality by fixing carbon dioxide and using biomass for heating, which will significantly reduce the negative consequences of climate change.
i want to be firmly confident in the future of a more sustainable cap.
a public bank like yours cannot meet all the needs of the market, but you must be a catalyst: a catalyst for the transformation of our societies, for the transformation of our economies, so that they can meet the two critical challenges of this time which are, on the one hand, learning to live within the physical limits of our planet - that is of course the climate issue and the issue of resource depletion - but also meeting this growing challenge of social cohesion, both within the european union and on the planet as a whole, since you have a mission in the field of development which is not negligible.
when you look at the investments you're funding in energy today, in 2009, three quarters went to 19th and 20th century technologies and only one quarter went to renewables.
because buildings are responsible for about 40% of the co2 emissions.
we will gradually reduce these emissions to zero over the next few years.
i myself have worked for ten years on the committee on the environment and i am still working on it.
− the construction sector is a sector with enormous potential for energy saving.
the sector is responsible for 40% of energy consumption and 35% of total greenhouse gas emissions.
improving the energy efficiency of buildings is the most effective way to reduce energy consumption and emissions.
by 31 december 2020, all new buildings must be nearly energy neutral.
minimum energy performance requirements will also apply to the renovation of older buildings.
nearly energy neutral buildings are buildings with very high energy performance.
the near-zero or very low amount of energy they consume must also be supplied to a very significant extent by renewable energy sources.
that shall be done by 1 january 2017. this directive is an important contribution to the fight against climate change.
i particularly welcome the adoption by a narrow majority of paragraph 70 calling on the commission to systematically include legally binding social and environmental standards in trade agreements negotiated by the european union.
the industries have in recent times given priority to exploration and extraction, to the detriment of safety and the environment; 800,000 litres of crude oil have been pouring into the gulf of mexico every day for nearly a month, and the environmental and economic damage is going to be catastrophic.
finally, if it were still necessary, this is a very good reason to invest more quickly and more in renewable energy.
this means bringing in the financial sector, imposing a financial transaction tax, but also a tax on banks and it is not a matter of choosing one or the other; this means putting those who have benefited most from their situation pension - think of the energy sector - this means stopping giving gifts, as in all the tax reforms that have been done, to the richest in society or to companies that take advantage of tax niches and really tackling tax evasion.
it is regrettable, however, that no mention is made of the ecological crisis, which may have far more serious repercussions in the long term.
the response to the ecological crisis and climate change should be a much more inspiring part of europe's action.
what we need is a new european green deal, a green deal with an approach to agricultural policy, with less emphasis on arable land and more on the quality of our food and the sustainability of farms, a research policy that does not disappear taxpayer money into a financial abyss, like the iter reactor, for example, but that emphasizes renewable energy, sustainable transport, innovation in green technologies, structural funds that should be allocated according to criteria to combat climate change and concentration in road infrastructure is not really an innovative policy in this area and, finally, a fisheries policy that does not contribute to the overexploitation of the seas.
i think all environmental organisations, and a lot of economic actors, who do believe that this is a very good directive, will be very happy to hear that from you.
this parliament already called on the commission in 2007 by a very large majority to take the initiative in combating the waste in the world of sports betting.
raising 80 million europeans out of poverty is what will create sustainable, sustainable, quality jobs in europe.
the new rules are strongly opposed by the eu, which has proposed that food producers must now disclose the amount of energy, salt, sugar, fat and saturated fat in their products.
this lack of information prevents him from making a wise choice, especially with regard to the carbon footprint of food.
it was a waste.
this agreement builds on the first stage agreement, in effect since 30 march 2008, by creating the prospects for additional investment and market access opportunities, as well as further strengthening the framework of cooperation on regulatory issues such as the environment, social protection, competition and security.
on the environment, the draft second stage agreement establishes a robust framework for tackling the local and global environmental challenges affecting europe and the us through the pursuit of joint projects addressing practical solutions such as cleaner in-flight and air traffic management technologies and cooperation in international forums such as the international civil aviation organisation.
to summarise, the agreement advances cooperation across a wide range of regulatory matters, including areas such as security, consumer protection, the role of the joint committee and the environment.
a study commissioned to examine the benefit of the first and second stage agreements has estimated that it could be worth up to eur 12 billion in economic benefits and up to 80 000 new jobs – both very valuable in the current economic climate.
so despite some positive elements, which my colleague, mathieu grosch, has also mentioned in the field of the environment, for example, in the social field, we will only be able to approve this agreement if there is more than a commitment to take new steps.
the powers of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (icct) must be strengthened, as it has failed over the past 20 years to ensure sustainable fishing and to preserve stocks.
if not, i will tell you how satisfied i am, among other things, with the guidelines adopted, such as the famous competitiveness scoreboard, because that is what it is all about: reconnecting with competitiveness and sustainable growth for all.
it is important that we establish a clear european framework and that framework must be sustainable for small businesses.
this is very important in the context of what we are doing for the environment and for good mobility.
the importance of this initiative cannot be underestimated when we see that the problems of congestion and environmental pollution are only increasing.
the commission is also going to look at how we can link the maritime system to the inland waterway system so that you can have a complete, very sustainable chain of water transport.
it is also a link in the sustainability of the transport sector in europe and there are many links to be made - and the commission knows that.
the use of language is important, the people who use that language are of enormous importance for the development of a good maritime sector that is safe, that is efficient and that can therefore also do a lot of good for the environment.
efficient co-modality has, of course, this aspect of cost-effectiveness, but also the aspect that efficiency is to be evaluated according to environmental, social and also safety criteria.
we believe that with a clear strategy, we can reduce co2 emissions by about 20% over the next ten years.
the biggest and arguably most complex challenge is to achieve a more sustainable and efficient transport system.
if we want to achieve a low-carbon transport system, we will have to take a whole mix of measures, research and development, which will also have to introduce new technologies on the ground, set emission standards and internalize external costs through price mechanisms.
tackling the future challenges of the transport system requires satisfying the mobility needs of citizens and businesses in a way that uses less and cleaner energy and exploits more efficiently the infrastructure and the potential of each mode.
what about mass layoffs, environmental pollution, or terrorist attacks?
moreover, it has been shown that non-binding recommendations on remuneration policy have only a limited effect and it is therefore important that we establish rules of the game which should contribute to sustainable growth of the companies concerned and the economy as a whole.
foodstuffs produced using new production techniques which did not exist before 15 may 1997. the commission's original proposal of january 2008 was a proposal that sought to achieve a number of objectives: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
i think that mrs liotard has had a brilliant career as rapporteur over the last three years, working well with the shadow rapporteurs and working well within the committee on the environment, public health and food safety of the european parliament.
i am sure that you too, ladies and gentlemen, have seen how in asia, for example, energy, ambition, self-confidence and confidence in the future are almost tangible.
the first challenge for europe is of course to get back to sustainable economic growth.
ladies and gentlemen, as i said, our first challenge is to get back to sustainable economic growth.
in the era of globalisation, we need to step up our efforts to make europe a competitive and innovative economy again, and to become a low-carbon economy.
but sustainable growth is not just a matter of economic parameters.
and as we can see in many countries, there is no sustainable growth, no real sustainable growth without social cohesion, which is the second major european challenge and the second priority of our presidency.
how much money and energy is being wasted by our companies for the lack of a single procedure at the level of the 27!
ladies and gentlemen, the protection of the environment and the climate is the third great challenge for which europe, for which the european union stands, is at once the third objective of our presidency.
there is no real sustainable economic growth without protecting our planet - a planet that we do not own but that we borrow from our children.
the european union is worldleader in measures to protect the environment and to combat greenhouse gas emissions.
the european union is worldleader in reducing its greenhouse gas emissions.
the eu is not satisfied with the way the un climate summit in copenhagen has been conducted.
the challenges there are huge and numerous: combating climate change; helping to preserve or restore peace; promoting the spread of open government; combating international terrorism; preventing the spread of weapons of mass destruction; ending gross violations of human rights in areas of conflict, with special attention to violence against women; drawing up a coherent common energy policy; preserving and improving our market share.
the union has to develop more leverage to bring others on board and create coalitions for the realization of its objectives for peace, for sustainable development, for security and for free trade that is also fair.
we have systems of government which combine political and economic freedom with social solidarity and ecological responsibility.
more europe means, in the priorities and objectives of our presidency: endowing the union with a new financial regulatory structure; strengthening its economic governance; stimulating its return to sustainable growth; consolidating its social model; enhancing its capacity for innovation; developing its diplomatic service.
this implies that each member state should adopt this strategy and integrate it into the various policies: finance, budget, employment, innovation, environment, energy, education and social policy.
in this context, the initiative 'a strategy for new skills and new jobs', prepared under the coordination of commissioners andor and vassiliou, will aim to create the conditions for the modernisation of the labour market with the aim of improving employment rates and ensuring the sustainability of our social models.
in addition, the flagship initiative on 'industrial policy in the era of globalisation', which is being prepared under the coordination of vice-president tajani and which we will present in october, will aim to improve the business environment, particularly for smes, and to support the development of a strong and sustainable industrial base, capable of facing global competition.
among the many important international meetings, such as the one on biodiversity in nagoya, i would like to highlight the copenhagen follow-up conference, which will take place in cancún in december.
the belgian presidency must ensure that the eu really speaks with one voice at the cancún climate conference.
the belgian presidency should reach a consensus to apply this model to the climate conference.
climate and social.
during this presidency, regional ministers will also chair council formations such as environment, sport, education, regional policy, and i hope that this can be a start to the necessary, more robust multilevel governance of the eu.
i would like to draw your attention to one very specific dossier which is of crucial importance for the european transport sector, for the further development of a good european transport infrastructure and for the achievement of our climate objectives, namely the eurovignette directive.
however, it is important because we want to give member states the possibility of charging not only infrastructure costs to lorries using our roads, but also external costs such as noise, air pollution or congestion costs.
this should lead to greater efficiency in the sector, help to reduce congestion and also provide member states with additional resources to reinvest in the transport system to make it more sustainable and contribute to additional economic growth.
in addition, cloning would reduce genetic diversity within the herd; it seriously threatens the european agricultural model, based on the quality of products, respect for the environment and strict animal welfare rules.
- this directive on industrial emissions and integrated pollution prevention and control is incredibly important for the air quality of all europeans.
in addition to the ecological disaster, the lives of 350 million people and thousands of species are directly threatened.
the same goes for climate change: how can we approach climate change issues by arguing that it is the nation states that can discuss it, not europe?
the ambition of the new cap is that of a major european agricultural, food, social and environmental policy, not a market-oriented europe at all.
the report by mr lyon therefore rightly points to the emergence of new challenges facing the cap: climate change, water management, renewable energy, biodiversity, soil erosion, among others.
the report calls for a more responsible, simpler cap, more effective in meeting the needs of european farmers, in the interests of consistency and sustainability... (the president withdrew)
mr president, commissioner, at its meeting on 4 may 2010, the college of commissioners decided to relaunch negotiations for an association agreement between the european union and the mercosur countries.
while europe is pioneering in health, hygiene, traceability, environmental and social standards, imposing very stringent conditions on european producers, the production of beef - especially brazilian beef, for example - still reveals veterinary and health deficiencies.
that brings me to climate change.
- i fully support the report on the development of the employment potential of a new sustainable economy.
mrs schroedter refers to the ilo definition that a workplace is green if it contributes to sustainable business and a social europe.
the commission's proposal is therefore more broadly based than the high-tech jobs in the energy and environmental management sectors to which the commission is referring.
for example, it is an ambitious sustainable industrial policy, aimed at resource efficiency, with decent, well-paid jobs.
the union has an obligation to combat global warming and therefore a good strategy is needed for a socially responsible transformation towards a greener economy.
transparency and fair competition also make the food chain more sustainable.
to this end, i believe it is essential to reaffirm the role of epsco in the 2020 strategy and in economic governance and to ensure that epsco is fully involved in the reforms to be undertaken to ensure the sustainability of our social model and the optimal economic governance of the eu.
europe must therefore ensure a sustainable recovery, strengthen the job creation potential of european economies and help people get a job.
if there is no movement at the international and regional level to stop this development, the situation will lead to an extraordinarily significant loss both for cultural heritage, for biodiversity - ms kratsa said - and also for security and economy in the region.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the united nations environment programme has calculated that investing in biodiversity can yield a lot: each euro can be recovered 3 to 75 times.
this means that investing in biodiversity can also bring incredible economic value.
agriculture can, if it chooses, contribute to the promotion of biodiversity rather than destroying it.
stopping the loss of biodiversity is not only an ethical duty the notion of good stewardship requires us to maintain the planet in a state that can meet the needs of future generations but is also an ecological and economic self-evidence.
recent studies have shown that the financial cost of biodiversity loss currently stands at around eur 50 billion per year (i.e.
just under 1% of eu gdp) and could rise to eur 14 000 billion - or 7% of estimated annual gdp - by 2050. it is essential that the eu can play an active part in global decisions on the post-2010 biodiversity vision and targets; the report also calls for the establishment of a european union vision and targets for the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity beyond 2010.
in writing.
- i approved the resolution on biodiversity, the diversity of plant and animal species, because it calls on the heads of government to act.
2010 is the year of biodiversity.
the ep wants to halt the decline in biodiversity by 2020. that is why we must now carry out a biodiversity audit of all european subsidies and policy programmes, so that money flows to measures that have a positive impact on the environment.
the problem is that the european environment ministers will not be able to adopt the european position until four days before the start of this biodiversity conference.
the issue of biodiversity must be placed higher on the european priority list.
the protection of biodiversity must be integrated into agricultural and fisheries policies and sufficient financial resources must be made available for nature conservation.
mr president, in my view amendment no 18 to article 1 sums up perfectly the philosophy we must have: it is a question of ensuring a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment and, at the same time, improving the functioning of the internal market.
finally, we must introduce new own resources - this is urgent - such as the financial transaction tax, the carbon tax or a corporate tax, which will simultaneously reduce the contributions of the member states on the basis of gross national income and remove the famous discussion of net contributors.
all this only reinforces the urgent need for an energy consumer charter - which you have just announced within three years - so that, in the end, liberalisation does not open the door to all abuses to the detriment of consumers.
third countries facing problems with this legislation should be reminded once again that their airlines may escape the provisions of this directive if they themselves take similar measures to reduce co2 emissions in the sector.
if everyone followed us, we would undoubtedly make less money, but we would achieve our environmental objectives, and that is the essence of this legislation.
as regards the united states, it should also be noted that the second eu-us aviation agreement, which was finalised last spring and is currently in the approval phase, implicitly recognises that market-based instruments on emissions should be allowed.
there is therefore no doubt that the agreement negotiated by both aviation blocs provides for mutual recognition of such emissions trading schemes.
that is naturally a pity because, on the issue of economic governance, we have no time to waste.
we will propose strengthening national fiscal frameworks and reinforcing the stability and growth pact, in particular by focusing on debt reduction and sustainability and by paying more attention to prevention.
one of the absolute priorities in the coming months is, of course, the climate debate.
and that should provide the means to invest in renewable energy and energy savings, not just in europe, but also in africa.
the use of renewable energy can also be one of the most efficient tools to achieve this goal.
it is also a matter of protecting health and the environment.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
the resolution on which we voted in the committee on the environment is very much in line with the analysis and the policy and the willingness of commissioner oettinger.
we want that organization to be responsible not only for pollution at sea from ships but also for pollution at sea from oil rigs in the event of a disaster.
to those who say: 'if you go beyond basle, look at the competitiveness of our banks on the world stage', i say that the sustainability of our economy is and must be our primary concern.
in fact, the health situation in africa is dramatic despite all the international aid and it's due to a significant amount of factors, whether it's climate change, financial crisis, wars or bad governance in some countries, greed that is excited by the very wealth that is found in africa.
so, i have to first of all commend the work of ngos and some churches as well, who are doing quite remarkable work in emergency, in conflict zones, but that cannot mean a long-term response, it is not a sustainable response.
and so we can learn from the human and ecological tragedy of the oil disaster that occurred on april 20 in the gulf of mexico: 11 dead, 800 million litres of oil spilled and a devastated biodiversity.
it is clear that drilling on the high seas is a risky activity and all precautionary measures must be taken: reinforcement of the principle of environmental responsibility, creation of a special european fund fund funded by the mandatory contributions of the operators of offshore installations.
the european union must adopt the same aggressive attitude on the international scene in the protection of biodiversity as it has in the fight against climate change.
the challenge in nagoya is as much to preserve biodiversity as it is in cancun to reverse the hellish trend of global warming.
the figures are a reminder of the scale of the challenge: 30% of animal and plant species have disappeared since 1970. in europe, despite the growing awareness of the need to protect nature, which has resulted in the establishment of natura 2000 ecological zones covering almost 18% of the european territory, biodiversity loss continues.
health expenditure is not a cost but an investment essential for the sustainable socioeconomic development of these countries.
a few months ago, we all voted in this great resolution on the 2020 agenda, in which we decided to include things like greening the economy, support for renewable energy, green technologies, etc., everything that generates activity, employment.
and it is with this in mind that, in order to give substance to these intentions, we tabled an amendment so that the criteria for sustainable development would be moved out of the life programme and into all the other areas.
i would urge you to support our amendment so that the criteria for sustainable development are not just words but also deeds.
he called on us as europeans to be leaders in renewable energy, to bring new energy with strength and not the energy of the past, not the energy that pays first to shareholders, not to european consumers or to the europeans of tomorrow who will have to continue to deal with the issue of waste.
i refer to the regulation of the financial sector and climate policy.
there is an environmental liability directive.
this accident could have happened, and yet apparently all environmental laws were followed.
secondly: our hungarian green friends have insisted that an independent commission of inquiry be sent to the area to establish the objective data on pollution.
environmental inspections are vital.
environmental inspections must be carried out not only by national inspections but also, and above all, by monitoring and supervising the supervisors.
we urgently need good environmental inspection throughout europe, and above all good implementation of environmental directives.
with a measure like this, you can catch several flies in one fell swoop: it is an effective instrument against speculation, and the proceeds can be used to tackle government deficits and finance vital social projects (environment, development aid, infrastructure projects, etc.).
the first is the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and the new european competences in the fields of foreign policy, energy, financial supervision, to name a few.
the second concerns the new 2020 strategy, which is supposed to put europe back on the track of sustainable growth, big work and innovation.
including consequences that will directly affect the ability of these states to participate in sustainable development.
aid should be given as a priority to acp countries wishing to maintain their banana sector because of its impact on the sustainable development of their country.
there are also, of course, major environmental challenges.
we are talking about sulphur standards that should be the same everywhere, about an emissions trading system - and i call on the commission to really keep the pressure on the boiler in the imo.
- ladies and gentlemen, in agreement with the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs, a slight amendment would be necessary to underline the need for a global agreement within the international maritime organisation on environmental measures.
the outcome of the 61st meeting of the international maritime organization's marine environment protection committee a few weeks ago is mentioned.
the icd has the overall objective of poverty eradication in the context of sustainable development, including efforts to achieve the millennium development goals (mdgs).
they will thus be able to identify these products with the social, environmental and safety standards that are generally associated with that country.
so we have a tense political climate in cambodia, we have elections coming up, we have electoral maneuvers, but we also have an authoritarian drift, and i would like to mention, beyond the case of rainsy, the case of ngo representatives being prosecuted, the case of the mp sochua, convicted for defamation against the prime minister, the journalist hang chakra, detained for exposing corruption in the entourage of the deputy prime minister, sok an, etc.
the agenda calls for the report by kathleen van brempt, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 663/2009 establishing an economic recovery assistance programme by granting community financial assistance to projects in the field of energy (com (2010) 0283 - c7-0139/2010 - 2010/0150 (cod)) ((a7-0246/2010).
the aim was to finance energy projects in particular.
large-scale energy projects, based on carbon capture and storage, based on infrastructure and a number of large offshore wind projects.
but the main criticism was about energy efficiency.
you would think that if there was a political agreement between parliament, the council and the commission to invest the surpluses together in energy efficiency, it would be an easy report and easy negotiations.
i'm a very big supporter of renewable energy, but we know that if we want to get results really fast, we have to put everything we have into energy efficiency: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the energy efficiency of the community's electricity system.
secondly: and that's very much linked to energy efficiency, at the local level.
it focuses on the local level, on cities and municipalities, on small-scale projects that can be implemented immediately, will produce immediate results and therefore have a huge impact, not only on energy efficiency, but also on employment, and that remains extremely important.
i think that this regulation can indeed be a powerful stimulus for energy efficiency projects and the exploitation of renewable energy sources.
the emphasis is on renewable energy, and i particularly welcome some of the special accents.
accents like: energy saving, micro-coupled heat and power, integration of decentralised and locally integrated renewable energy sources into electricity networks; the commission has also taken into account the fact that the aid is not intended to cover the costs of the operation of the plant.
there is a lot of enthusiasm because this is a good fund, because there is money, because it is about energy efficiency and renewable energy and because it gives us as members of the european parliament the opportunity to work on this project locally.
finally, our partnership is more than necessary to advance world stability and to discuss the major multilateral issues, namely climate change, energy, the economic and financial crisis, crisis management, development cooperation, regional issues, non-proliferation and disarmament, security.
on the contrary, viewed from the perspective of the sustainability of our pension systems, the ageing of the population is a real headache for policy makers and those who are concerned with budgetary balance.
while the latter have to comply with increasingly stringent rules on traceability, hygiene, animal welfare and environmental protection, they are now seeing their production costs skyrocket: fuel, fertilisers and, above all, cereals now account for 60% of the total cost.
i think that a risk analysis by river basin, as we do for the environment in the water directive, is appropriate here.
all agri-environmental measures in this direction should therefore be strengthened.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the greens have no objection to public money being invested, provided that this money is the catalyst for the transformation that our society, our industry and our economy must undergo in order to become more just and, above all, more sustainable.
it is to keep a business in a state of flux which is not economically sustainable - otherwise it would not need subsidies - or environmentally sustainable.
it is also true, ladies and gentlemen, that for several decades many european countries have been trying to put an end to an industry which was not sustainable.
i would like to say in conclusion that as long as the european union, as long as the member states devote all their energy to supporting the industries of the past with public money which - and i hope the irish crisis reminds us of this - has become something extremely rare, as long as we support with this public money the industries of the 19th century, we will not put europe in a position to conquer leadership positions in the industries of the 21st century.
they have expertise in research areas related to the geographical situation of the faroe islands, including marine resources and the environment.
the agreement will allow these researchers to participate in other fields such as energy, food, agriculture, fisheries or biotechnology.
the european commission has proposed a scheduled end to the subsidies by october 2014. a wise proposal that takes into account the negative environmental impact of aid to the coal industry and the need for member states to provide for appropriate measures, for example in the field of energy efficiency, renewable energy or carbon capture and storage.
i therefore regret that this afternoon the european parliament did not have the courage to say no to the extension of aid to coal mines until the end of 2018 and to turn decisively to new sources of energy, sources of jobs for the european population.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment.
i would like to take this opportunity to recall the value of a tax on international financial transactions in helping certain donors to honour their commitments in terms of official development assistance and in helping developing countries to make the necessary adaptations to cope with climate change.
i would point out that the monterrey consensus in 2002, the follow-up to the doha conference in 2008 and the high level summit on the millennium development goals in new york in september 2010 all expressed a favourable view of innovative and alternative financing for development and stressed the need for a balanced approach between the economic, social and ecological dimensions of development.
such a change in biodiversity would endanger the vital diversity of food.
we will not get out of this crisis without restructuring and rescheduling the debt where it exceeds the sustainable level and the real ability of the debtors to repay.
the strengthening of moldova's participation in community programmes will, on the one hand, strengthen ties in the fields of culture, education, the environment, technology and science and, on the other hand, also strengthen political relations through the eastern partnership and the negotiations of the new association agreement.
my colleagues in the committee on the environment and public health have certainly improved the text by refusing to endorse various forms of disguised advertising and by proposing that the health authorities of the member states should monitor the communications of pharmaceutical companies to the general public about their prescription medicines, but i remain very cautious about the extremely blurred line between information and advertising.
in the same way, it was important to revert to the restrictive position taken in june by the environment committee on nanomaterials.
the practicability of the rohs directive is also essential and i welcome the consideration of the potential health and environmental effects of these substances, the establishment of a methodology and the complementarity with the reach regulation.
- i have approved the report on hazardous substances in electrical and electronic waste.
it is very important that hazardous substances in electronic waste decrease.
despite european legislation prohibiting the export of hazardous waste for recycling, studies show that more than two thirds of european e-waste is exported.
often this e-waste is dumped illegally in, for example, west africa, where it is very under-processed and causes enormous health problems and environmental pollution.
this rapidly growing waste market is a money maker; the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take measures to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in a manner that would jeopardise the environment.
i hope that agreement can also be reached quickly on the directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee).
i strongly deplore the fact that a sector which should be a driver in our evolution towards a green economy has been eager to escape this important environmental legislation and that a majority in parliament and in the council has given in to it in favour of one technology in particular (the use of cadmium telluride thin film solar panels).
we are a little disappointed, however, commissioner, about the strategy, because a good strategy means making a good analysis, which is related to the supply problems, which is mainly related to the ecological problems and to the social problems.
at the top of the list is energy efficiency.
you have referred to it, but why is it so difficult, if we are so concerned about energy efficiency, to formulate objectives which we want to enforce in our member states?
thirdly, the tripoli summit on investment, economic growth and job creation must be tackled urgently if it is to be successful - i have heard this in several speeches, but it is essential - to improve the business climate.
there is above all - and this is essential - a shared responsibility in the search now for a solution that is just, realistic and sustainable, on the part of all the actors, and when i say all the actors, i am talking about morocco, i am talking about the polisario front and also about algeria, a key actor and it is a symbol, which is only cited, which is only mentioned in the very last word of our resolution.
indeed, the consequences of the global decline in bee numbers are relatively unknown to the general public, even though bees play a fundamental role in the sustainability of our food chain.
the treaty of lisbon provides the european union with a strong legal framework and legal basis article 194 for action on energy policy.
a long-term vision and a new energy strategy are needed to achieve the 20-20-20 targets of the climate-energy package by 2020. the european union must be strong-willed and ambitious.
today, the union is increasingly dependent on energy imports.
it is therefore important that the european union incorporates energy considerations into its external policies and actions.
energy efficiency and energy savings should be given top priority, including through the adoption of an energy efficiency action plan and a european-wide renewable energy incentive programme.
finally, particular attention should be paid to the competitiveness of the european union and the affordability of energy for european industry and private consumers.
let's say it right away, the cancun climate change conference will not be a success.
and to provide for new sources of financing: a tax on financial transactions, taxes on international trade, national taxes on emissions, contributions to air tickets - all the avenues i supported with 292 meps.
the number of major disasters in both eu and non-eu countries is increasing due to climate change and increasing urbanisation.
− with climate change increasing the number of disasters worldwide, causing serious humanitarian, economic and environmental damage, it is essential that the european union can respond quickly.
the conclusion of the cancún climate summit is hardly a super-achievement.
there have been some concrete steps forward, on the fight against deforestation for example, and there is a green light for the start of a $100 billion climate fund.
europe is a role model when it comes to climate.
i am thinking of the achievement of the mdgs, the food crisis, the economic and financial crisis, climate change and so on.
today, illegal exploitation is all too often at the root of civil wars and conflicts in the region, whereas this wealth can be the engine of sustainable economic development.
the agricultural and fisheries sectors must therefore be strengthened in a sustainable way, especially for small farmers and fishermen.
until the crazy challenge of space solar becomes a reality and the whole world benefits from this almost inexhaustible electricity supply, the european union has no choice for its current energy policy but to multiply sources of supply and above all to play the energy efficiency card.
i particularly welcome the adoption of the binding 20% energy savings target for 2020, which would save the eu some €100 billion.
to achieve this, action will obviously have to be increased in areas as varied as energy services, transport (when will there be a framework for the standardisation of electric vehicles?)
the latter sector requires special attention when it is known that buildings are responsible for about 40% of the eu's energy consumption and about 36% of greenhouse gas emissions.
there is considerable potential for energy savings in public buildings, for example, which would facilitate the transition to a sustainable and green economy.
− i am pleased that the european parliament has voted in favour of a mandatory target of 20% energy savings by 2020. projections indicate that europe will achieve only 11% energy savings with current policies.
meanwhile, households waste a thousand euros a year on energy and we export as much as 350 billion euros of our european wealth to oil-rich countries every year.
better insulated homes, more efficient energy transport and cleaner appliances mean lower energy bills for consumers and businesses.
if the european ministers support the proposal, public authorities should do more to support energy-saving measures.
measures that ultimately make money because the energy bill is lower.
saving energy is the cheapest way to meet our climate goal and leads to 560 million tons less co2 emissions.
so saving energy makes it even easier to increase our climate target.
unfortunately, we are still hopelessly behind, and according to a recent report, european policy needs to be tripled to achieve 20% energy savings.
when it comes to generating new revenue - because a budget is both revenue and expenditure after all - taxes on financial transactions, taxes on energy, consolidated corporate tax base, we say "wait, we have to study, we have to think about the impact anyway, we have to not overdo it.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.