key sectors such as agriculture, renewable energy and youth employment should be given more consideration.
in conclusion, any instrument, whether new or revised, must preserve the fundamental principles and spirit of the agreement and, above all, we must not lose sight of the central objective, which is the eradication of poverty, while contributing to sustainable development and the progressive integration of the acp into the world economy.
the danube countries face similar environmental and infrastructural problems.
madam president, mr commissioner, over the years there have been many initiatives to develop cooperation on europe's largest river in the fields of transport, the environment, culture, education, trade and many others.
i believe that a prerequisite for overcoming trade imbalances is the need for sound public finances in the european union to ensure the sustainability of national economies and the european currency.
the timely implementation of the necessary structural reforms to lay new sustainable foundations for growth is an additional stimulus to the revival of trade and investment.
these indicators should focus on economic, social and environmental aspects.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the need to develop a common energy policy for the union quickly has so far been held only when a crisis has arisen, such as that of the winter of 2009. we can say with concern that this cannot continue, and i therefore welcome mrs vaillant's report and regard it as an important step towards the construction of a pan-european energy policy.
it is clear that the adoption of a series of directives and regulations in the energy sector will create the necessary conditions for the development of such a common policy.
i believe that the time is not far off when we will also be talking about a treaty to create an energy community of the union.
the introduction of a system for the notification of investment projects in energy in individual member states will allow the commission to have a complete picture of the development of energy infrastructure in the union and to guide the countries towards addressing the weakest and most problematic points.
this will provide an adequate and reliable infrastructure both for the functioning of the internal energy market and for crisis mitigation.
most importantly, an adequate pan-european energy infrastructure is a prerequisite for a common eu external energy policy, which the ep has called for in a number of its documents.
we have to take into account the interests of the people in these coastal areas, environmental issues and the fishing industry.
from strengthening the rule of law in kosovo to working with the emerging powers to share responsibility for global governance, from promoting peace in the middle east – and may i join vice-president biden in condemning the decision to build 1 600 new houses in east jerusalem – to providing shelter to the surviving victims of haiti’s earthquake, which i visited last week, from dealing with proliferation problems such as iran, to devising effective answers to ‘new’ challenges such as energy, climate change and cyber security.
or consider climate change, which is not just an environmental problem but also one with security and geopolitical ramifications.
you feel it everywhere: from negotiations on climate change to iran, to big energy deals in africa or central asia.
we need to get this right so i am working with the nato secretary general to improve eu-nato relations in practical areas and set a positive climate.
to respond we need to be ready to make our contribution: on access to the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, in particular for developing countries, while avoiding proliferation risks, and that includes work on the multilateral nuclear fuel cycle approaches – i think 84 countries have benefited from eu assistance programmes; with progress on nuclear disarmament – politically, this is fundamental to create a constructive atmosphere; and by addressing regional proliferation crises, in particular with iran, which has the potential to derail the conference.
the strategic partnership between the european union and latin america for the period up to 2015 will develop in the context of agenda 2020, the global agreement to combat climate change in the making and our aspirations to build a green and environmentally friendly economy.
they have a clear message to continue to ensure a high level of protection of human health and the environment through appropriate means, structures, control mechanisms and management systems.
but when that happens by playing on people's fears and using the environmental map to protect other types of interests, the dignity of the position disappears.
i fully support the mandatory need for environmental impact assessment and the exercise of prior and ex post controls by both operators and control authorities in our countries.
so far, member states, health professionals, cancer institutions, ngos, patient organisations and industry representatives have taken part in the preparation of concrete proposals for action to be carried out by the end of 2013. it remains to be seen, however, whether this new means of cooperation will result in more sustainable action to tackle cancer.
the burden of cancer is a threat for the sustainability of our public health systems, and the eu should definitely take the lead in responding to it adequately.
in future, we must increase our efforts to make parliament's work more efficient, by focusing not on buildings but on new technologies, by setting an example of institutional and environmental standards, by carefully analysing the effect of each expenditure and not allowing the usual bureaucracy of each budget to automatically grow.
the debate this afternoon shows that: the revival of the internal market, territorial policy for all regions, including the most remote ones such as the outermost regions, cohesion, economic governance, the sustainability of public finances, employment, education and research.
that is why, on the basis of the commission's proposals, the european council adopted five common objectives: an employment rate of 75%, 3% of gdp invested in research and development, but also the limitation of school drop-out, increasing to 40% the number of people with a university degree, as well as the 2020-2020 objectives on energy, climate change.
in conclusion, i would like to confirm that the commission will play its part, as you wish, in a voluntary way, to implement this strategy and build with you the new growth that citizens expect, which is of a higher quality, more sustainable and fairer.
the third evening of this plenary week will again be marked by an energy issue on your agenda: the renewal of eu financial support for the decommissioning of the kozloduy power plant in bulgaria.
and thirdly, i would add that, because of the historical lack of financial resources in the republic of bulgaria, european funds help to ensure a high level of safety during the demolition works, in order to protect people and the environment.
i am speaking first of all of the continuation of financial support for measures in the energy sector.
in addition to the express wish of the bulgarian government, several arguments justify accepting the need for further financial support for energy sector measures.
this includes equal treatment with lithuania and the slovak republic, where we are supporting measures until 2013, and further measures to create replacement capacity, including further investment in energy efficiency measures.
the existing coal-fired power stations in bulgaria have enormous potential for energy savings.
the commission therefore considers it appropriate to continue to guarantee support for measures in the energy sector, including measures for network infrastructure.
however, the development of such a necessary solution cannot be considered in the context of financial assistance under the kozloduy programme for the following reasons: it would distort competition, since the development of such a solution is an obligation for all member states with a nuclear energy programme.
although the final disposal of spent fuel elements is part of nuclear waste management, it goes beyond the scope of decommissioning and is not relevant to it.
i would like to stress that the commission is taking the issue of final disposal seriously, as has just been mentioned, and will be presenting a proposal on the management of radioactive waste later this year, which will include the development of safe final disposal sites for spent fuel.
we welcome the continued focus on support for the continuation of safe deconstruction and we welcome the fact that projects in the energy sector are also eligible for support.
rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur on the committee on the environment, i would like to express my support for the european commission's approach to this proposal and for the report as voted in committee.
bulgaria has demonstrated good faith in the use of decommissioning assets up to 2009 and the extension of the community assistance is necessary to ensure the safe and timely completion of decommissioning activities carried out with the highest level of transparency and environmental protection.
the extension of the financial assistance for the mitigation measures for the premature decommissioning of the four reactors is of particular importance, taking into account the impact and consequences on the environment, energy prices for consumers and the security of energy supply in the region.
there have been some attempts to press this dossier for political and ideological reasons, but we must bear in mind what the ultimate goals of this programme are - namely to ensure safe decommissioning and fair compensation for bulgaria, to support the efforts made towards a more sustainable energy policy and to provide transparency in the management of projects and funds.
i would like to say to mrs harms that the issue of the final disposal of radioactive waste is a very serious one and needs to be given special attention, but it is not a question that bulgaria alone will face.
the commission has also proposed to increase the number of projects in the energy sector by increasing the number of projects in the energy sector.
60% of the funds allocated will be used directly for decommissioning the facilities of the kozloduy nuclear power plant and the remaining 40% for improving energy efficiency and reducing carbon dioxide emissions in bulgaria.
there is no doubt that the funds received from the european union should not finance projects that increase carbon dioxide emissions.
mr president, i have a very brief and specific question, because the honourable member has raised safety issues, and i would like her to answer: is it known that before the four small units of the kozloduy nuclear power plant were decommissioned, they were declared the safest reactors in the european union by the european atomic energy agency?
but here's the question: why did it have to come to this point at all, why, as i said a moment ago, the safest blocks in europe, declared as such not by anyone but by the most prestigious agency, the international atomic energy agency, had to be closed.
because the greens have a problem right now, and their problem is that they've been stimulating carbon dioxide emissions by shutting down the kozloduy plant.
because they can't explain to their constituents why their constituents, the citizens of the european union, have to pay to have more carbon dioxide emissions in the union.
the region’s strategic geopolitical location, its increasing importance as an energy, transport and communication corridor connecting the caspian sea and central asia with europe and the growing eu preoccupation with energy security suggest a more active participation in the energy projects of the region, including the completion of the nabucco pipeline project.
the south caucasus matters to the european union, not least due to its energy and transport links.
cooperation with the south caucasus in the field of energy, in order to promote democracy and good governance, should be included among the union's main priorities.
this will foster political stability and respect for human rights, and lead to sustainable growth and prosperity in the region.
this is the only sustainable way of reconciliation with the past and investment in a better future.
the need for a new and socially sustainable model that integrates the full range of women's skills in the economy, restores the balance of responsibilities between women and men in public and private life and ensures such a work-life balance should be taken into account.
– mr president, commissioner, i would also like to express my thanks to the rapporteur and, on behalf of our shadow rapporteur ms lepage, i would like to express our support for the main key points of the report adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
while no safety concerns have been identified so far with meat produced from cloned animals, such a technology still raises serious concerns about animal welfare, the reduction of biodiversity, and ethical considerations.
i am pleased that creating conditions for sustainable growth is a top priority of the belgian presidency, for which you have our support, and i wish you every success.
the european union must have a single position on energy issues.
the interconnection of our countries' energy networks is of paramount importance for the independence and security of our continent.
they need a genuine european strategy, which offers sustainable solutions to their integration.
to do this, we need to look at access to education, think about the development of appropriate training as an integral part of the 2020 strategy, promote access to health care - consultations, treatment, medicines, family planning - and, above all, find solutions for the sustainable integration of roma in the labour market.
i would also stress that the european union should strengthen the judicial protection of its citizens at worldwide level, creating a legal environment promoting worldwide trade and offering our european companies a level playing field when doing business outside europe.
– mr president, as the vice-president of the euromed assembly’s committee on energy, environment and water, i had the opportunity to see the concrete and dramatic ecological reality of the jordan river area during a field visit which took place last february.
the special report on the situation in the jordan valley, for which i was rapporteur, highlighted the fact that all parties concerned – in particular israel, the palestinian authority and jordan, but also lebanon and syria – must find a common solution to the two most pressing problems: an equal distribution of water that respects the need of all the people in the region, and a healthy and protected environment for the generations to come.
i hope our debate today will serve the interests of all parties in the region and lead to concrete and unbiased conclusions for an active involvement of the union towards future sustainable solutions.
the decline in the river level has implications for the overall climate and landscape of the region.
the many environmental, social and territorial issues associated with these areas therefore merit close attention by the european legislator.
environmentally, with its rich ecosystem, its diversity and its impressive size, european mountains provide ideal conditions for the development and conservation of exceptional biodiversity.
the european union must be able to make the best and most responsible use of the economic and environmental advantages of mountain regions.
by approving the reports on the independent european supervisors today, we are investing in exactly that - a better basis for effective supervision of financial and non-financial institutions, which will ultimately ensure higher and more sustainable security for the financial system and significantly minimise the likelihood of future crises.
back in 2006, we adopted a regulation which, for the first time, saw the full transposition of eu cross-border cooperation experience in an external relations environment.
this morning, activists from some environmental organization took the liberty of attacking 16 of the 27 national flags of the european union.
that is why, mrs ashton, i am addressing you as the person who has perhaps the greatest interest in the motivation and energy of the whole european union, and i trust that you will find a way to make this geographical balance adequately represented in your office.
we know that it gives rise to very important policies for the european union, and i do not think that the best place for agricultural policy, for example, is in the 'sustainable growth' part, or for cohesion policy in the 'inclusive growth' part.
is the eu able to provide an analysis of the environmental risks arising from the accident in hungary to be submitted as soon as possible?
it will contribute to the development of energy efficiency and trans-european networks, which in turn will lead to a revival and sustainable growth of the european economy.
mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with the inauguration of president obama, relations between the european union and the united states of america are entering a new era of sustainable cooperation.
the cancun summit, which begins in two weeks, will be a great opportunity for the united states and europe to look in the same direction and lead the other countries to a lasting and binding agreement on combating global climate change.
finally, the charter for european security recognises the important role of the economic and environmental dimensions.
it is therefore crucial to better highlight the expertise of the osce and the european parliament in these areas; the regular use and development of economic and environmental data is an additional guarantee for the success of our common missions.
after decades of tension, the political climate between the present taiwanese government and the people’s republic of china is positive.
the good news for 2009 is that the rate of irregularities in cohesion policy has decreased significantly compared to last year, but the big question remains whether this decrease will be sustainable over time or is just a coincidence, which may be due to the specific selection of countries under review.
in any event, the agenda includes outstanding issues related to irregularities in the areas of external aid, development and enlargement, agriculture, research, energy and transport, education and citizenship.
the livestock sector is facing a variety of challenges - rising feed prices, market speculation, rising energy prices, rising costs associated with the implementation of european standards - all of which have led to the price increase of european production.
they have a direct impact on productivity, job creation and the well-being of citizens and provide the opportunity to address some of the global challenges, such as health and the environment.
we must therefore think both in terms of the long-term exploitation of living aquatic resources, which creates the conditions for the necessary sustainability and development, and from a social point of view for the owners, operators and crews of fishing vessels.
in the field of enlargement policy, we would like the commission to take advantage of the new energy that was created in 2010. we call on the commission to assist croatia in meeting the remaining requirements so that the accession negotiations can be successfully concluded as early as possible in 2011. as we are particularly concerned about progress on chapter 23, we expect the commission to report to the european parliament on the progress of the negotiations as early as the first quarter of 2011. the other candidate country that the commission needs to monitor with particular attention is turkey.
i think that competition between these two projects is the only possible way to provide secure and cheap energy for european citizens.
and nuclear power is the one that can also provide safe, cheap energy.
similarly, we need to put more emphasis on promoting green renewable energy sources as opposed to subsidising fossil fuels.
the setting of a fair environmental price, in line with global climate protection standards, is another important point in the report, which i welcome.
since a multilateral climate agreement is not foreseen in the near future, it is important to work at european level on the development of a mechanism to limit carbon dioxide emissions.
i believe that both biofuels and biomass should be included in the mandatory sustainability criteria, given that they have contradictory environmental impacts.
of course, sometimes you have cases with which there are additional problems which need more energy to tackle, and this was clearly true of the case to which most of you have referred.
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to focus your attention on the problems of the bulgarian freight transport companies, who will be greatly harmed if we allow additional charges to be introduced, related to air pollution, noise emissions and so on.
achieving high energy efficiency is a key policy objective of the european union, as it is an integral part of the overall strategy to build a competitive, low-carbon economy in the european union, which will result in stimulating economic activity and improving employment, through the creation of many new jobs.
with tomorrow's vote on the energy efficiency action plan, the european parliament will send a strong signal to the european commission and the council on the need for urgent and concrete action in this direction.
firstly, i call on the european commission to undertake a thorough analysis of the effectiveness of existing legislation in this area, the renewal of the existing building stock and higher energy standards in new construction.
building energy efficient infrastructure and developing advanced technologies in vehicles are other important priorities that i hope will be part of the new energy efficiency roadmap that the european commission will propose in 2011. in conclusion, i would say that energy efficiency has the potential and should become a profitable business.
– energy efficiency (ee) is the most cost-efficient measure to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
through lower energy consumption we are less dependent on imports of oil and gas and their varying prices.
it is of crucial importance to focus investment on energy efficiency and to limit the money we spend on oil and gas imports.
a lot has been achieved since the last eeap but there is no evidence that the target can be met by 2020. new instruments towards boosting energy savings should be introduced at eu and national level with the emphasis on two main areas: renovation of existing buildings and measures to boost financing.
these two issues should be properly addressed in the revision of the energy efficiency action plan in order to get things moving as desired.