we therefore disagree with the position on the opening of the energy chapter.
climate change, combined with the rapid pace of land use and industrial development, is a testament to how vulnerable the environment is becoming.
nobody is against iran acquiring nuclear energy for peaceful purposes, but patience is running thin if iran is buying time in the dialogue with the 5+1, which we support.
the main objective of the new cap should be to promote a production model compatible with a healthy diet, environmental protection and the fight against carbon dioxide emissions.
we must not forget that the agrochemical model of conventional agriculture is seriously responsible for the greenhouse effect and climate change, and that this model must be changed precisely because it is against farmers, peoples and the planet's biodiversity.
we want to take a forward-looking perspective and act as partners to address global challenges such as climate change, the need to maintain open markets and equal access to raw materials, international stability and the rule of law.
the 13th eu-china summit takes place a few weeks before two crucial international events, namely the g20 summit in seoul in november and the climate change summit in cancún in december.
– madam president, a globalised multilateral world, along with the challenges of climate change, security of energy supply, nuclear non-proliferation, iran and north korea, collective security issues like terrorism and piracy, and the peace efforts in volatile regions like the middle east, warrants a strategic partnership between china and the eu.
we will have to decide in the next few weeks in the commission - first in retrospect and then in prospect - whether and for what we propose budgetary resources in the energy investment area, and then have them discussed and approved by you and the member states.
the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of national experts to assess the impact of the reforms on the greek energy sector.
the opening up of the market to competition is expected to increase the efficiency of resource allocation, to secure growth and jobs in the energy sector and to have an impact on other economic sectors.
it is up to greece to decide how best to reorganise its energy sector within the framework of eu legislation for the internal energy market.
the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
we believe that consumer prices should generally be set on the basis of cost, in order to also provide incentives for the consumer to save energy and to give the utilities the right investments.
other factors such as the increasing use of expensive fuels such as gas and rising environmental costs will be added in the coming years, so that prices in greece will rise.
so among the many serious issues i would like to raise, i would like to highlight the following as matters primarily of our own responsibility: the need to put real pressure on israel to resolve the palestinian issue and on turkey to resolve the cyprus issue, the urgent need to abolish the death penalty in the united states, the failure of president obama to keep his promise to close the guantanamo base, the need to defend - and i use the word deliberately - personal data and finally the huge issue of global climate.
i would say, mr president, that after the treaty of lisbon it is a given that the european parliament will also be able to contribute much more to energy policy.
i would agree with the rapporteur on what she has said and would stress that even more so today, energy policy is directly and indirectly linked to the general foreign policy of both the states and the union itself.
today we are calling for clean contracts, transparency and a special reference to renewable energy sources.
this will help the small island states of the union in particular so that everyone in a large market can deal with the big energy issue in a transparent way.
mr president, the question before us is whether in cancun we will be able to take a step forward in terms of climate change.
it seems to me that our position, our objectives, are really a pioneering position on the changes needed to prevent ecological disaster.
but it is to be expected, commissioner, that unfortunately it is up to us in the european union to persuade the major powers, especially the united states and china, to contribute to the overall effort to combat climate change.
the proposal creates a system of control which, in the current neoliberal environment, is not intended to be allowed to have any real meaningful application other than its psychologically innovative action, which is mainly aimed at the general public.
the proposal creates a system of control which, in the current neoliberal environment, is not intended to be allowed to have any real meaningful application other than its psychologically innovative action, which is mainly aimed at the general public.