the assessment of the copenhagen summit and its outcome must be viewed both through the eyes of common sense and through the abundance of available environmental and economic data, which confirm that there is no global warming, and that if there is, it is entirely beyond the control of man and is caused by purely natural forces.
by the way, we learned last week that a significant portion of the environmental data that the intergovernmental panel on climate change has been working with has either been deliberately falsified or misinterpreted.
fourthly, there will be room for practical debate on rational, efficient and cheaper energy sources, and nuclear energy will be given a renaissance.
of course, this strategy must cover a number of aspects, and it is precisely the aspects of environmental protection, sustainable economic development and the development of transport infrastructure that logically require the involvement of all the countries that use water resources in this territory.
priorities must be clearly defined, projects must be environmentally sustainable and have clear support from local and regional authorities and the public.
not isolated actions, but cooperation in the territory with a supra-regional perspective can ensure the sustainable development of the danube region into the future.
in this situation, the european parliament should remain in a position of authority requiring compliance with the rules adopted by the member states of the european union, in such a way that the acceptance of the principle of subsidiarity does not distort the competitive environment.
because ghettos are not just about the environment, about the buildings, but also about the people who live there.
the draft resolution on the outcome of the copenhagen summit on climate change was the result of the careful work of our colleagues from several committees and follows a long-term strategy for a real green policy in line with the union's economic objectives in a globalised world.
however, i must object to a number of irresponsible amendments from the socialist and green groups, in particular attempts to increase the agreed long-term targets of reducing emissions by up to 40%, or a nuclear ban or a transitional european tax on climate change.
i also dislike the erc's downplaying of climate change and i was also outraged by the danish prime minister's absurd criticism instead of thanking him for the sacrifices he made to prepare for the copenhagen summit.
in practice, this will help to create a safe working environment and protect healthcare workers from blood-borne infections caused by sharp-edged injuries.
it is not like the regulation of co2 emissions, the harmonization of taxes or the standardization of public services, where companies and their employees have to do only what we and the member states have served them, with great pain and expense.
it should aim to facilitate dialogue, confidence-building and the patient search for a sustainable peaceful solution in the context of the whole middle east.
the proposal for regular information on investment projects in the field of eu energy infrastructure is open to debate.
i believe that the mandatory information should be more descriptive, giving a rough overview of the energy networks and their future development.
if sufficiently general, the problem of unpleasant discussions about the secrecy of certain strategic plans of energy companies would also disappear.
the commission's efforts to adopt a multiannual approach to the strategy for the conservation of fishery resources and to put more emphasis on finding the right balance between fisheries and the environment are particularly valuable.
given that 88% of the fish stocks are fished above the maximum sustainable yield and that up to 80% of the total catch is discarded, it is necessary to set limits to allow the fish stocks to recover and thus significantly increase catches in the future while maintaining sustainability.
the report takes account of all three of the key aspects of fisheries mentioned above and proposes concrete solutions for their sustainability, so it is a good start for all of us to save fisheries.
i welcome the draft compromise resolution on ukraine, which not only addresses the democratic nature of the recent elections, but also offers solutions to the problems of oil and gas supply and transit, and encourages ukraine to accede to the energy community treaty and energy legislation in accordance with directive 2003/55/ec.
the next item is the report by mrs bairbre de brún, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 998/2003 on the animal health conditions governing non-commercial movements of pet animals (com ((2009) 0268 - c7-0035/2009 - 2009/0077 ((cod)) (a7-0082/2009).
in times of crisis, it can help to re-establish a stable and prosperous economic environment.
they argue that it would break down agreed social and environmental standards.
the aim of these agreements is to ensure individual and collective action in the event of a threat of or ongoing pollution of the sea or coast.
in her report, the rapporteur highlighted two persistent and growing problems of marine and coastal pollution, namely the huge floating mass of plastic and rubber items in the pacific ocean, 34 times the size of the medium-sized member state of the netherlands.
this report is an example of constructive work to tackle the major problems of marine and coastal pollution and i will therefore support it with my vote.
i will mention the fight against terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, regional conflicts in the middle east, afghanistan, climate change, energy security, including nuclear security, and so on.
iran's refusal to allow inspectors from the international atomic energy agency access to its nuclear facilities poses a current security threat not only to its immediate neighbours but also to the eu.
but the most important is the protection of water from pollution, and nuclear waste in the russian arctic is also key.
it is about sustainable sourcing of raw materials, sustainable transport, conditions for scientific research, nature protection and, last but not least, the rights of indigenous peoples.
i too voted in favour of the resolution on investment in the development of low-carbon technologies (the set plan) because i believe it is a key instrument for the union's transformation into an innovation economy capable of meeting ambitious targets.
in this regard, i consider it necessary that the commission, in close cooperation with the european investment bank, submit a comprehensive proposal for an instrument for investments in renewable energy, energy efficiency projects and the development of smart grids by 2011 at the latest.
this should go hand in hand with a strengthened role for the european investment bank in financing energy projects, especially those with a higher risk profile.
i categorically reject the use of the low-carbon issue to make sub-belt ideological attacks on nuclear energy by colleagues on the left of the political spectrum.
i insist that nuclear energy is among the clean energy contributing to sustainable development.
on the contrary, it is intended to be part of the reform of the common agricultural policy as well as policies addressing adaptation to climate change, the conservation of biodiversity, the security of energy or water supplies, animal welfare or european fisheries.
i also welcome the preservation of the registration systems for geographical indications and traditional specialities, as these indications are important for european agriculture not only from an economic point of view but also from an ecological and social point of view.
written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by stéphane le foll, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on eu agriculture and climate change (sec(2009)0417 - 2009/2157(ini)) (a7-0060/2010).
agriculture is and will be directly affected by climate change because it is created by living organisms and its outcomes are primarily affected by the quality of soil, water and air resources.
unfortunately, agriculture is also currently contributing (about 10%) to greenhouse gas emissions.
but it is agriculture that can help to combat global warming, in particular by introducing new methods of tillage to conserve soil and reduce and store co2, by promoting forestry and agroforestry and by promoting organic farming.
scientific evidence shows that this is the only sector capable of capturing carbon in a natural and non-polluting way.
in addition, forests help to address land degradation and erosion, water scarcity, pollution, and to protect the biodiversity of plant and animal species.
achieving this objective is certainly in our common interest and must be borne in mind in the debate on the future of cohesion policy after 2014. the proposed adaptations concern mainly large environmental and infrastructure projects, projects generating profit or promoting energy efficiency and renewable energy in the housing sector.
i would like to say at this point that i support the declaration submitted by hungary on the use of financial engineering instruments under the cohesion fund for energy efficiency and renewable energy interventions.
ladies and gentlemen, as we commemorate the tenth anniversary of the major environmental disaster caused by the leakage of cyanide from a gold mine in romania into european rivers, we are putting to the vote a resolution calling for a ban on cyanide mining for gold throughout the union.
this method is extremely dangerous not only in the event of accidents that threaten large areas, but also causes an already unbearable environmental burden in mining.
in conclusion, i want to emphasize that the small profit from cheaper gold mining with cyanide cannot absolve us of our responsibility to a functioning ecosystem and to preserving it for future generations.
back then, in the mid-1990s, we were considering the environmental impact of the chemicals used, the fact that the process of cyanidation was processing huge amounts of ore, and the harmfulness of not only cyanide, but also the substances used for what is called decyanidation, which is chlorine and calcium oxide.
the risks of cyanization are disproportionately high, especially in third world countries with lower levels of environmental protection.
support for rural development from the european agricultural fund allows member states to make payments for natural handicaps in mountain areas and payments in other less-favoured areas as part of environmental and landscape improvements.
those payments are intended to contribute to the preservation of rural areas and the promotion of sustainable farming systems through the permanent use of agricultural land and should compensate for additional costs and income foregone.
however, this should be set in time, as the entire reform process could be significantly delayed due to the negligence of one of the member states, which would not only negatively affect the payments from these funds, but also contribute to the ambiguous legal environment in the individual member states.
social issues and climate change in this respect must not distract from these main objectives.
at the same time, we must recognise that a prerequisite for smart and sustainable growth in our member states, their regions and municipalities is adequate infrastructure, both in transport and in the environment.
i'm not an environmental extremist.
there is no doubt that increasing the energy efficiency of buildings also thanks to this directive makes considerable political sense.
it is a cornerstone of the responsibility for sustainable living, but also of europe's political independence from third-country energy sources.
i hope, together with you, that in ten years' time we will have really reduced emissions and at the same time we will have curbed a little bit the growing dependence on energy sources, particularly oil and gas from third countries.
construction accounts for a full one-third of greenhouse gas emissions, so our task is, of course, to actively support the member states financially.
we have adopted a directive which will undoubtedly open up a new avenue for research into the energy efficiency of buildings and contribute to savings through insulation.
but i want to say here that i support a shared responsibility for a more dignified environment for legal asylum seekers and that i was for it.
the proposal for a regulation on the eu resettlement management and regulation programme prioritises the resettlement and adaptation of refugees to their new environment.
− i am pleased that the new energy efficiency legislation for products has finally been adopted after a long period of debate between the european parliament and the council, and that i had the honour of being its shadow rapporteur for the european people's party.
the advantage is the extension of class a, which allows differentiation between an ever-growing group of energy-efficient appliances and at the same time motivates manufacturers to produce the most energy-efficient appliances possible.
it is also important that the number of classes indicating the energy performance of individual products has not been increased, thus preserving the clarity of the overall concept.
a total of 7 steps will enable consumers to make efficient choices when choosing goods on the market and thus contribute to reducing energy costs through their responsible behaviour.
as regards the innovation of the obligation to indicate the energy class of products in advertising material, i consider it a success that this obligation has been limited to advertising containing price information or information relating to energy consumption.
this is repeatedly highlighted in various documents, including the leipzig charter for sustainable european cities.
i would like to say that the kozloduy programme cannot be oriented solely towards financing the transfer of irradiated substances, to increase energy efficiency in bulgaria and to finance alternative energy sources.
compliance would require a change in the size of the individual packages, which would logically lead to an increase in the cost of manufacturing the packaging, the transport of the packaged products, the size of the storage space, the price of the food and the subsequent ecological disposal of the packaging.
the community contribution is intended to bring together the national research programmes and activities of the participating states into a single joint programme, bonus, and to support the achievement of the research and environmental objectives for the baltic sea region, the marine strategy and the water framework directive.
i welcome the involvement of scientists from the russian federation in the bonus project, as the vast baltic area is its territory and thus has a direct impact on the baltic sea ecosystem.
i fully support the intention to secure funding from the participating states to ensure the sustainability of this activity after the end of eu funding.
nor will it eliminate the main problem of obesity and related diseases in the population, which is primarily a mismatch between energy intake and expenditure related to lack of physical activity.
unless we change our habits and attitudes, the increase in urbanization and the increasing share of the urban population will lead to more traffic congestion and greater environmental problems.
they can reduce congestion, fuel consumption and co2 emissions.
for example, the introduction of a smart toll system in stockholm has significantly reduced traffic congestion and co2 emissions.
in particular, the new member states are currently subject to enormous social pressure to individual car transport with all the negative consequences, including increased co2 emissions or road accidents.
it's bad public perception, it's bad for the environment, people are dying on the roundabouts.
in the european union, 118 to 138 million tonnes of bio-waste are produced annually, of which 88 million tonnes are biodegradable municipal waste.
up to 40% of bio-waste is landfilled.
such practices pose a significant risk of groundwater and soil pollution and contribute to greenhouse gas emissions.
the main shortcoming in the field of bio-waste management is the different level of implementation of existing legislation in the member states.
i therefore welcome and fully support the request that the commission should draw up a proposal for a separate directive on the management of bio-waste by the end of 2010. the commission's approach to this issue must change, it must be significantly more proactive and far more ambitious than it has been so far.
i also believe that it is necessary to strengthen the educational elements in the field of waste management.
the best and most effective way to promote recycling and waste prevention is to create the necessary social demand.
the most direct way to do this is to educate the young generation and to introduce sustainable waste management as a societal norm.
mr. chairman, thank you very much for the opportunity to explain your vote on the green paper on the management of biological waste.
and to conduct a more in-depth analysis of the overall environmental effects of the conversion of biomass to alternative energy sources.
toxic, biological waste on their territory.
− waste is the fourth largest source of greenhouse gas emissions after energy, industry and agriculture, with landfilling the main source.
landfilling poses a huge threat not only to methane production but also to the potential contamination of groundwater, soil and, of course, the land area where the waste is landfilled.
biological waste is the most commonly landfilled waste worldwide, and only a negligible percentage is sorted and recycled.
up to 100 million tonnes of kitchen and garden waste and up to 37 million tonnes of waste from the food and drink industries are produced in the eu each year.
however, biowaste has an important role to play in the fight against climate change and, if used, represents a huge potential for renewable energy production.
the european population is already aware of the need to sort waste.
however, biological waste almost always ends up in landfills.
in the new member states, it is almost impossible to separate, in addition to plastics, glass and paper, biological waste, because the citizen has nowhere to put it.
it is therefore necessary to create conditions for the recycling and re-energetisation of bio-waste in each of the eu member states.
i also don't believe that it is possible to push companies to just find and use the best technologies, i see it as an important mechanism to find the best solution so that emissions actually decrease.
i am aware of the dissatisfaction of the citizens' initiatives and the regions in my own country with the outcome of the trilogue, but i am also aware that, although the european parliament has not been able to make all its demands and comments known, a strong compromise has been reached which will actually reduce emissions and improve the environment, not only in europe.
the requirement to create a european safety net has been weakened, but the european commission will have to reassess the minimum emission limits at regular intervals, thus providing a basis for a european emissions benchmark.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i am convinced that the compromise negotiated between the council and the european parliament is a sensible solution to the ambitious review of integrated air pollution prevention and control in the union.
as a doctor, of course, i would welcome a more drastic reduction in emissions limits, but that's not realistic in practice.
of course, not only do farming forests have an ecological function, but the very name of a farming forest tells us that the desired product is also wood.
it is right that we are striving to achieve reductions in harmful emissions, but we must also bear in mind the economic implications of these steps and their rationality in terms of competitiveness and the specificities of the economies of individual member states.
the forced closure of some facilities already in the middle of their life cycle will undoubtedly have an impact on final energy prices, but it will also affect the steel industry, which may have fatal economic consequences in some regions.
albania is wasting too much energy, too much precious time, on the inability of the government and the opposition to find common ground and work together on vital priorities.
on the one hand, there are environmental commitments which should be reciprocal, on the other hand, there are human rights issues and there is also the fact that products from other countries are not coming into europe through this agreement with korea.
− i abstained on the report on developing the job creation potential of the new sustainable economy because i do not share the rapporteur's view that a 90% reduction in emissions over 40 years will solve unemployment.
that doesn't mean we shouldn't raise the bar for environmental improvement, just don't live under the illusion that it's the cure for unemployment.
we believe that achieving a deep and effective single market is a key tool for ensuring the overall macroeconomic performance of the european union and that a flexible labour market is the best environment for new employment.
the drying up of the jordan river is undoubtedly a serious regional environmental problem, affecting the ecosystem of the whole area and the lives and health of its inhabitants.
long-term over-pumping and pollution, but also drought, are the main reasons for the situation as well as a weak ability to ensure effective water management.
of course, the political conflict is exacerbating the environmental problem.
the commission has taken a number of steps in recent years to improve the regulatory environment, and i personally support it very much.
technically, ensuring sufficient flow of water in the river is a major problem that can only be solved in a peaceful political climate.
the loss of biodiversity continues at an extreme rate.
stopping the loss of biodiversity must be a priority for us, firstly for ethical reasons, because we should preserve a sustainable planet for future generations, secondly for ecological reasons, because the scale of interaction between species of living organisms is essential to ensure the habitability of our planet, and thirdly for economic reasons, because nature and its original diversity provide us with the basic resources for life - food, water, fuel, fibre - and also restore the fertility of the soil or provide land for plant breeding.
maintaining biodiversity is also important for us because of the reduction of the manifestations and consequences of climate change, as land and marine systems absorb co2 and are the only natural mechanism for capturing and storing carbon.
environmental directives allow the adaptation of implementing measures to the local situation.
however, care must be taken to ensure that differences between member states are not significant in the protection of biodiversity.
it is also necessary to extend the protection of biodiversity to the fisheries sector.
farmers have a special role to play in the effective conservation of biodiversity.
as the population grows, it will be necessary to increase production, but at the same time to promote rural life and to maintain biodiversity in order to balance these three aspects.
the european union has failed to meet its 2010 target for halting biodiversity loss.
progress is needed to protect ecosystems, including the planetary ecosystem.
it is necessary to realize, without religious or ideological bias, that man is part of the planetary biosphere and that the human species cannot exist without the planetary ecosystem.
the pressing issues of our time, including greenhouse gas emissions, land degradation, the threat to marine ecosystems, food shortages and more, can be summed up in a single common denominator: population pressure on homo sapiens.
if we don't look at the whole problem from the perspective of the ecology of our own species, going far beyond the social, economic and political realms, then by 2020 we will find that the targets for halting biodiversity loss have once again not been met, and worse, we will find that the planetary ecosystem is once again on a path to a state that is intolerable for the continued existence of our own species.
i am very pleased that the rapporteur is also drawing on my report on consumer confidence in the digital environment, which was adopted by the european parliament in the last term.
mr president, last year's energy crisis was unpleasant, but it did not show a structural market failure.
madam president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the european union and china are facing many common global challenges and problems: overcoming the global economic crisis, climate change, terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, uncontrolled migration and many other challenges.
we have achieved good results, but there is much to improve: increasing the transparency of the decision-making of the competent authorities, providing the necessary resources for the competent authorities to operate, ensuring their independence and a sustainable budget, and, last but not least, adopting strict requirements on conflicts of interest to ensure that decisions taken in the area of patient safety are not influenced by commercial interests.
and as such, they simply pose a danger to human health and a burden to the environment.
i fully support the rapporteur's intention to take account not only of practices on the part of manufacturers but also, and in particular, of consumer and environmental protection.
it is not acceptable that we demand higher values for consumer and environmental protection from our producers at the cost of rising costs and demand nothing from other non-eu and non-european producers who import these goods into the eu.
the report is clearly worded, calls for concrete and feasible legislative changes and takes account of environmental impact.
the need for regulation has been overridden by the need for a free market environment for banks and the financial sector.
while we blame unfair competition, it has long benefited not only from generous state subsidies, cheap labour and environmental standards, but also from innovation and modern technology.
a moratorium is one of the possible solutions, in my view, although it must not, of course, prevent and hinder the energy industry from supplying us as we need.
homo sapiens produces the most waste of any species.
industrial pollution, municipal waste, co2 production, noise, light smog, heat pollution and all the other known and unknown waste products of our civilization form a huge ecological footprint.
the impact of our species ecological footprint is preventing some other species from continuing to exist within the planetary ecosystem.
that's the essence of the decline in biodiversity today.
biodiversity is the defining condition for the existence of the planetary ecosystem in the metastable state that we know and that allows the existence of our own civilization.
if biodiversity declines, the buffering capacity of the planetary ecosystem declines.
this ecosystem becomes less resilient and more susceptible to change, including tidal changes.
today, it is no longer about protecting one species or another, or even about protecting any single ecosystem.
it's about protecting our own species, our own ecosystem.
equally important is the call to the commission to increase the potential of the structural funds by simplifying and improving procedures and flexibility, with an emphasis on the social integration dimension, in order to help member states optimise the performance of social and employment policies and achieve sustainable growth.
i think it was a meaningful expenditure of energy.
i just think it's not sustainable to enforce minimum amounts, which are more like mistakes and have no visible impact on the solvency of companies.
the european union is often criticised for being over-regulatory, for adopting too many laws that burden the economic environment.
so please, at least in this case, let us not add to the burden on the legal and economic environment in the european union.
for the group gue/ngl an integrated maritime policy is not the first subject to be discussed in the context of the european union, but it is still very difficult to combine environmental protection, fisheries, transport, energy, industry, science and research and to integrate the different aspects of development into a single plan.
this is a pity, because the great energy potential of these flows is not exploited and unnecessary pressure is put on the expansion of transhipment yards in port cities, which transfer freight from ships to rail and road without using the capacity of river ports.
of course, alongside the related shipping, rail and road transport, the issues of nature conservation and the energy use of coastal regions must be tackled in a fundamental way.
i consider the key initiative in the prevention of pollution in point 21 to be the work on the ecological solution of cleaning oil tankers and disposing of old ships.
the past few days have highlighted three issues that should be at the centre of the union's negotiators' attention: the different strategies with which the eu and the us are approaching the current global economic crisis; different policy approaches to the adverse environmental situation of the planet and climate change; security issues.
this affects both energy and industrial production.
and all osce member states are exposed to new challenges and security threats, such as terrorism, organised crime, trafficking in human beings and drugs, and energy, environmental and cyber security.
the uniqueness of this organisation also lies in the interconnectedness of the political-military, economic-environmental and human rights dimensions of cooperation.
one of the most important is the question of how to provide for old age and, in particular, how to finance it in a sustainable and stable way, guaranteeing a decent level of pensions in the long term.
the next item is the report by maria da graça carvalho, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on simplifying the implementation of the research framework programmes (2010/2079(ini)) (a7-0274/2010).
it is the unquestionable merit of this parliament that the amount of funding for energy efficiency and renewable energy projects reaches eur 146 million.
increasing energy efficiency and the share of renewable energy sources should be a shared responsibility of both the public and private sectors, and european funding should therefore be available to both groups.
only economically and environmentally balanced fishing, with the right fishing practices, can help to preserve fisheries and the current stock of fish in a sustainable way for future generations.
the baltic sea is also experiencing massive fish displacement due to climate change, which requires regular review of marine protected areas.
the next item is the joint debate on – the report by christofer fjellner, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending, as regards information to the general public on medicinal products subject to medical prescription, directive 2001/83/ec on the community code relating to medicinal products for human use (com(2008)0663 – c6-0516/2008 - 2008/0256(cod)) (a7-0290/2010), and– the report by christofer fjellner, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending, as regards information to the general public on medicinal products for human use subject to medical prescription, regulation (ec) no 726/2004 laying down community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a european medicines agency (com(2008)0662 – c6-0517/2008 – 2008/0255(cod)) (a7-0289/2010).
so we didn't want to waste any time and worked together on an old document.
however, regulating web content in a globalized digital environment is a challenge.
this concept was also included in my report on consumer confidence in the digital environment.
renewable resources are intended to contribute to environmental protection.
it is completely against their purpose to create new dangers for the environment and human health.
the rohs directive and the council resolution of 28 january 1988 on a community action programme to combat environmental pollution by cadmium are both fundamentally directed against the use of cadmium, as europe is one of the areas particularly at risk from this cumulative carcinogenic toxin.
the importance of coal-fired power plants lies, inter alia, in the fact that, in the event of a sudden increase in energy demand, they are practically one of the few power plants able to react immediately and flexibly by increasing production, independently of other factors.
if the promotion of the union's energy security is not to be a mere empty slogan, we cannot do without stable and competitive coal mines and a competitive coal industry.
the cor will therefore support any proposal in today's vote that will allow member states sufficient time to carry out a thorough retraining of workers, to organise the cleaning up and removal of the environmental burden of coal mining, and to have the capacity to absorb any social shocks in time.
reducing red tape and red tape is in everyone's interest and above all a legitimate demand of farmers who need as much time and energy as possible for their own work, crop production, animal husbandry, not for dealing with official paperwork and filling out forms.
written statements (rule 149)
this directive is undoubtedly a step forward in the prevention of waste and the reduction of the use of hazardous substances.
both pvc, or polyvinyl chloride, and its waste are not classified as dangerous under european union law.
even if we accept the objection that the legislation on hazardous substances and the studies are already 10 years old and may therefore be outdated in some aspects, the research carried out shows that pvc waste is recyclable and its replacement by alternative materials could in many cases have a negative impact on the environment.
the argument that the discouragement of the use of pvc in electrical and electronic equipment is justified by the dioxin emissions from outdoor combustion cannot therefore be fully accepted.
this argument completely ignores the fact that the incineration of any kind of waste is an undesirable activity.
although i am a signatory to the resolution for the upcoming climate conference, i have some critical remarks and reservations about our own resolution.
i am very pleased that we realize that there will be no global agreement at this conference either, and we all know in this room that without a global agreement, europe alone, even if it raises its own ambitious plans to 100%, has not the slightest impact on global climate change.
the blind tightening of our standards may in effect threaten europe, and i confess that i cannot agree to the covert introduction of european taxes under the banner of combating climate change.
pushing for higher social and environmental standards is the way to eliminate injustice and inequality in international trade competition.
i voted in favour of the report on the energy strategy, which sets out the directions for future energy policy in the european union.
i would like to emphasise the recognition of the role of nuclear energy in the current and future energy mix of the european union, including the implicit recognition of the need to extend the life of existing sources.
without coal as a stable primary resource able to respond flexibly to the sudden increase in energy demand, it is difficult to imagine increasing the energy security and independence of the european union.
the concrete and practical form of the strategy will also be strongly influenced by the forthcoming action plan for a low-carbon economy by 2050, which is due to be published early next year.
− i voted in favour of the report on the energy strategy, which sets out the directions for future eu energy policy.
i would like to highlight the recognition of the role of nuclear energy in the eu's current and future energy mix, including the implicit recognition of the need to extend the life of existing sources.
without coal as a stable primary resource able to respond flexibly to a sudden increase in energy demand, it is difficult to imagine increasing the eu's energy security and independence.
the concrete and practical form of the strategy will also be strongly influenced by the forthcoming action plan for a low-carbon economy by 2050, which is due to be published early next year.
in view of the still-existing lack of regional markets and market-coupling, i consider the objective of creating a single internal market by 2015 to be very ambitious, especially when taking into account that the european commission, in my view, does not sufficiently monitor the proper implementation of current european energy legislation in all member states.
the european commission has also appropriately integrated into the energy strategy the so-called infrastructure package, which can be expected to facilitate the construction of electricity networks throughout the eu.
written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the council and commission statements on the outcome of the climate change conference in cancún.
energy efficiency is one of the key priorities of the europe 2020 strategy and the energy strategy for europe 2011-2020, which makes the report very relevant and timely, also in relation to the recent cancun summit.
the report builds on the 2006 energy efficiency action plan and calls on the commission to update the plan, revise the energy services directive and also set a binding target of 20% improvement in energy efficiency by 2020. the report discusses the arguments for the benefits of greater energy efficiency: social (the potential to create 1 million jobs or reduce energy poverty in the eu), economic (potential energy savings of up to eur 100 billion), strategic (preserving the competitiveness of european businesses through energy savings) and, last but not least, security (increased energy self-sufficiency of the eu).
the report makes recommendations on energy infrastructure, urban and building development, information and communication products, transport, incentives and financing.
i consider the role of financial resources (structural funds, elena instrument of the european investment bank, national energy efficiency funds, etc.)
in the financing of energy efficiency projects to be particularly important.
overall, i believe that the report presented by mr bendt bendtsen contains a precise analysis of the issues as well as relevant recommendations in the field of energy efficiency and therefore i recommend that it be approved as proposed.
although the european union has set itself targets for a 20% reduction in energy consumption by 2020, unlike the targets for emission reductions and renewable energy, these are not binding.
member states are therefore not sufficiently motivated to achieve the best possible energy efficiency performance.
technologies and practices to improve energy efficiency already exist, but without binding targets, these projects will not be adequately funded and implemented.
in addition to reducing dependence on oil and gas imports and thus increasing security of energy supply, this would also result in significant financial savings for households.
i think this is very important because there are more and more people living in what is called energy poverty, where the majority of the household budget is consumed by electricity and gas bills.
in addition to greater competitiveness, improved energy efficiency would support the creation of permanent jobs and at the same time reduce co2 emissions by 780 million tonnes, which is more than the kyoto protocol requires.
the energy efficiency report rightly calls for a greater emphasis on innovative systems such as smart grids or smart meters, a more flexible integration of renewable energy sources and a global heat production strategy.
i am glad that the proposals for legislative measures on energy poverty were not passed and that instead a wording was adopted which clearly shows that member states are more capable of tackling energy poverty and that this is therefore a problem that should be tackled at member state level.
improving energy efficiency should also help to enable the use of 15% of the erdf for energy efficiency projects, although i believe, on the other hand, that energy efficiency should be a horizontal european priority financed from sources other than the structural funds.
i consider it a success to reject proposals for a pan-european energy or coal tax, which would only lead to higher energy prices and would hit particularly hard on low-income groups.
at the same time, i am of the opinion that energy efficiency objectives should not be legally binding and that the general conditionality of the structural funds to energy efficiency criteria should not be introduced.