we call for consideration to be given to the following issues, among others: the absorption of the consequences of climate change and the necessary adaptation measures for the acp states; the concern of acp states that regional negotiations between the eu and groups of acp states undermine solidarity within the acp community; and the possibility of supporting, on the basis of the cotonou agreement, necessary investments in public services and public infrastructure with ib credits.
they have identified four main priorities: greater energy security, more investment in information technology, more education and training, and the creation of a european economic government to ensure that these projects are implemented.
(applause from the centre) if you act with the same energy and the same determination at european level, you will bring this modernisation momentum to europe.
i would like to add a point to what some have already said: we want an international agreement on aviation and maritime emissions.
this morning i was asked if the issue of climate protection was now politically dead.
i would like to take two small examples, namely the commitment by two developing countries, the maldives and costa rica, to become climate neutral in the next ten years.
but we should not go back to the drawing board, but join forces with those around the world who want to make progress on climate change.
i was in seville last weekend for the informal meeting of the environment ministers.
i think that we in the european union must do three things after copenhagen: first, we must regain global leadership on climate change, second, we must demonstrate credibility in the commitments we have made, and third, we urgently need to win new partners on the way to mexico.
and to win partners: i hope that we will develop a climate diplomacy and, with the help of the african union in particular, find enough partners in latin america and asia to reach a global agreement in mexico.
the un climate conference has failed because of the hard-line self-interest policies of the rich industrial nations.
there is no agreement on how to limit further global warming effectively.
the target of reducing greenhouse gases in eu countries by 30% by 2020 was not met in time.
to make better climate targets dependent on the achievements of other countries is to gamble with the future of humanity.
the facts are clear: in 2007, china's per capita co2 emissions were 4.6 tonnes, germany's 9.7 tonnes and the us's 19.1 tonnes.
we urgently need climate justice for all of humanity.
how did we deal with the questions from colleagues, whether rightly or wrongly, who said: we have critical questions, climate sceptical questions?
how did we deal with this in the committee on climate change when colleagues said: we would also like to hear the other view, the opposite position of scientists?
in my view, it is very important that we use the resources available more efficiently, that we build and prepare for example warning systems that warn of natural disasters such as floods, floods, but also respond to industrial accidents, for example, which cause pollution in the danube and the surrounding regions.
the development of the danube as an inland waterway, the modernisation and improvement of ports, and the closure of gaps and the creation of a continuous network are therefore ecological modes of transport.
i am deeply convinced that we as europeans, in the context of our official relations at the summits - precisely because we have an interest in cooperation in the fields of climate change, environmental policy and financial market regulation - must make clear to china that it urgently needs to change its human rights policy.
in this climate, the philippines is preparing for the may elections.
the economic crisis, the financial crisis, the ecological crisis, the social crisis of this continent require transnational european responses.
if we break down into our individual parts when it comes to environmental legislation, if europe is renationalizing rather than taking an ambitious approach together, then we will also experience in other areas what we experienced in copenhagen, namely that the decisions are made between barack obama and hu jintao and not with the participation of the europeans.
what we need in response is a close cooperation between the european parliament and a commission committed to social and environmental progress in europe.
climate protection is on the agenda, but we do not see any abandonment of coal-fired or nuclear power.
i do not see the eu taking the lead in climate change and development aid.
2010 is the international year of biodiversity and the eu is in the process of promoting a new biodiversity strategy, i.e.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has dealt with the subject in depth and is putting a proposal for a recommendation to the plenary tomorrow, and we would like the council and the commission to be able to join in these recommendations.
climate change is threatening the habitat of this species anyway, and there's an increasing trade in polar bear body parts here, too.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the acquis communautaire in the field of the environment.
the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat climate change, and calls on the member states to take all necessary measures to ensure that the climate change is not averted.
so, there can be no standstill in climate action.
i personally think it is completely wrong to focus on climate change solely on reducing co2 emissions.
firstly, many people forget that the research into the causes of climate change is still in its infancy, and secondly, it is completely wrong and unscientific to define climate change as a single causal phenomenon.
reducing the use of fossil fuels and increasing the use of renewable resources and renewable energy will save the environment, improve efficiency and leave a better world for our descendants.
efficient and sustainable management of our resources is therefore far more beneficial to us, our society and the environment than reducing co2 emissions, whatever the cost.
the copenhagen climate negotiations were a disappointment for the european union.
the result is far from the eu's position and far from the necessary position on climate change.
recently, there have been a growing number of reports of climate scientists faking data.
so, let me be clear: i have been advocating for many years that we conserve fossil fuels, so that we have the least possible impact on the environment.
but the panic-mongering that is being done with the word climate change, i cannot understand.
it's true that there is climate change, but there has always been and there will be in the future.
the reality of climate change is completely lost.
critical remarks and the correct scientific elaboration of climate protection were rejected, as were europe's unilateral actions.
on the economic front, ukraine needs to take urgent action to tackle corruption and to improve the business and investment climate.
at the same time, essential sectoral reforms in areas such as energy – in particular the gas sector – transport and the environment need to be undertaken and implemented.
if we can only partially remove trade barriers in the transatlantic market, we can achieve much more for our citizens and therefore for workers than with some of the other measures in which we have invested much more energy over the last five years.
we have the problems of duty drawback, we have the problems of what foreign supplier parts can be fitted to south korean vehicles, and we have the problems of environmental standards which are still unresolved.
a discussion on how europe should respond strategically to the copenhagen conference on climate change will be pursued at the next european council.
after reaching agreement among all of us on an important statement on greece, we discussed the europe 2020 strategy – a strategy for sustainable growth and employment.
before the crisis, the european economy was making progress: we saw 18 million new jobs and a more dynamic business environment.
those social models will be put at risk if we do not adapt to a much more challenging global environment.
it will centre on three priorities: smart growth, inclusive growth, sustainable growth.
i am talking about sustainable growth, recognising the importance of tackling climate change, recognising the pressure on resources.
we need a community harmonization of taxation, but above all we need a real community regulation and control of financial markets and a really community coordinated economic and financial policy based on solidarity, which must have binding social and environmental objectives!
we need to think about the climate goals of the past.
twelve indicators, as you know, have been developed within the european union to monitor, to assess, to evaluate effective gender equality, although in some cases we have not yet succeeded in designing them; for example, the issue of human rights, the media, the environment.
it is also a fact that ecological sustainability is the basic condition for the economic survival of fishermen in the first place.
we should behave as if we were at home outside european waters, promoting sustainability, human rights and democracy worldwide and ensuring that the proceeds of partnership agreements do not go to the coffers of corrupt dictatorships.finally, a fundamental point: european fisheries policy is a hot potato, because there are many tangible national interests.
of course, we all believe that we must protect and maintain fish stocks at a sustainable level so that they can continue to support our fishermen in the future.
but we must not only discuss ecological and economic aspects, but we must also discuss the excessive protection of species, as has already been mentioned, for example, when it comes to cormorants and seals.
if short-term financial transactions in relation to real social product are increasing more and more in this world, do you agree with us that you need to strengthen long-term sustainability in the real economy, where people work, where people make money, where people produce products that you can consume, that you can use?
- mr president, i would naturally like to thank mrs in 't veld on behalf of my colleague and friend, mr joaquín almunia, for her report on competition policy in 2008. i would also like to add to this thanks to mr bütikofer and mr bielan, who, as rapporteurs for the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, also contributed to the preparation of this report.
sustainability also plays an important role, because social issues play an important role.
since there is no need, i would like to know why you have persuaded the new commissioner for health to simply ignore the concerns of the who regarding the testing of feed, why you have not waited for the new guidelines to be presented by efsa, which is currently working on the risk assessment of risks posed by gmos to biodiversity and the biosphere as a whole, and why you have also en passant raised the contamination limit for feed and for food potatoes to 0.9%.
secondly, the pollution limit.
the commission takes a position based on the independent assessment given to us, not because a gmo is necessary, but if there is no evidence that it poses a risk to public health or the environment we feel obliged to accept it, also in accordance with the obligations we have under the wto, if there is nothing that prevents us – scientifically – from doing so.
the next item is the commission statement: international climate policy after copenhagen revitalising international negotiations through immediate action.
i am already in the throes of the ets because i am not quite sure how the commission is going to deal with benchmarks, for example, but also with carbon leakage, as a result of the decision in copenhagen.
i have written to the president of parliament to inform him that all the delegations in this house have the issue of climate protection on their agenda when we make contacts with partners in the world.
i am a little afraid that the climate negotiations could suffer the fate of the doha negotiations.
have we really noticed that europe's influence on climate policy has declined?
the aps+ special scheme aims to achieve social and environmental standards.
do you agree, commissioner, that human rights, social and environmental standards should be removed from the special regulations and integrated into the aps criteria catalogue?
a second point of importance for us is the link between traditional foreign policy issues and new issues such as energy policy, climate policy, justice and home affairs.
we believe we have to take practical steps: a comprehensive test ban treaty should come into force; the fissile material cut-off; support for peaceful uses of nuclear energy to find safe ways of making sure that we avoid proliferation – for example, the contributions we make to the nuclear fuel bank – and support for a very strong and effective iaea.
and in a sense it comes into building the different elements of what we do well – the work we do on state-building, on justice, on the rule of law, the work we do on development programmes, the work we do on tackling the issues of climate change, the work that we do on providing support to governments and to people – all of that is engineered to make us more secure, stable and prosperous but actually, by doing so, we are creating a more secure, stable and prosperous world.
that is going to be a very big part of what we are doing on the ground, and that helps particularly in states where instability, because of climate change, could be very difficult.
the european agricultural policy is of particular importance for sustainable growth and employment and for climate change, as it plays an indispensable role in preserving jobs in rural and peri-urban areas.
the production of renewable energy creates additional jobs and helps to reduce co2 emissions and dependence on fossil raw materials.
agriculture is innovative, value-adding and the real source of sustainable regional economic cycles.
i am convinced that the best way to deal with the problem of proliferation would be to abandon atomic energy once and for all, as its civilian use bears great dangers on its own and, moreover, it cannot be excluded with sufficient certainty that civilian nuclear technology will not be used for military purposes.
in the aftermath of the copenhagen negotiations it is right that we pay increasing attention to that part of the world which has been witnessing the most tangible effects of climate change.
other environmental changes are also having a growing impact on the arctic’s people, biodiversity and landscape, both on land and at sea.
the arctic’s ecosystem is very fragile and therefore needs maximum protection and safeguards.
at the same time, because of climate change, the resources of the arctic are becoming increasingly accessible.
we want to ensure our citizens and companies are treated fairly, including in the areas of transport and natural resources, and that needs to be done in a very deliberate and careful manner with appropriate environmental safeguards.
environmental protection is very important.
another key word is shipping, the transportation routes that are opening up further because of climate change, the northwest passage and the northeast passage.
but we should certainly seek dialogue with these parties so that we can reach a consensus on what is important for the region, in terms of environmental protection, the exploitation of resources and the rights of the people who live there.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to protect the environment in the region.
i have to say, madam president, in the context of the climate change debate, there is now a heightened debate about the arctic as a shipping water with the potential to shorten trade routes and thereby also consume less fuel - this is also a side issue - with the question of whether and how resources from oil to gas are available and how they should be used.
i think that we must be open to the question, both in terms of the question raised by many of our colleagues here: the protection of the environment, the protection of the people who live there, but also in terms of the question being tackled with caution and honestly discussed: are there possibilities in this?
we have already dealt with this issue very carefully and made some initial points in connection with an oil report in 2008. when we talk about resources, when we talk about energy supply, we need diversification, new sources of supply, then we also need to discuss: is there a way to use these sources without endangering the environment and nature?
it is about shipping, above and below the water, about fisheries, about resources in the form of primary energy sources and raw materials.
we need dialogue on environmental protection to preserve natural resources and nature.
we need dialogue on animal welfare to preserve biodiversity, and we need protection and respect for the inhabitants and their human rights.
i would like to emphasize once again that, in addition to the already important aspects of the environment and energy, the question of shipping routes also plays a very special role.
there is always, of course, the possibility that there may be complex difficulties in those relations, there may also be discrepancies, but the european union's relationship with russia is broad, it is multifaceted, we are linked by growing economic and trade ties, a high degree - it must be acknowledged - of interdependence in the field of energy, common interests in other areas which have to do with problems that go even beyond our respective countries, and challenges, even of a global nature, which we have to face and which we should face as jointly as possible.
others are slower, such as trade and investment, and in any case it is very important for us that there are strong clauses, strong agreements with russia on trade, investment and energy.
the second point is energy security.
what is the concrete situation with regard to the energy negotiations?
- the proposal for a regulation (com (87) 560 final) on the common organization of the market in bananas; this question concerns the fact that in 2007 the commission presented a concept to promote low-carbon energy technologies so that they can be rapidly applied.
european industrial initiatives, in particular in the fields of wind, solar, bioenergy, carbon capture and storage (ccs), electricity grids and nuclear fission, the creation of a european energy research alliance, the sustainable transformation of european energy infrastructure networks, continuously updated european energy technology systems and the establishment of a steering committee on strategic energy technologies.
the seventh framework programme for research provides eur 886 million a year for energy research.
in 2009, the commission presented its communication on the financing of low-carbon energy technologies, which identified the need to triple funding for energy research over the next decade.
this communication sets out how money should be allocated to the main low-carbon technologies to help europe move from a heavy reliance on fossil fuels to a more carbon-reduced one.
the final plan includes €6 billion for wind energy research, which the commission says could produce a fifth of eu electricity by 2020, €16 billion for solar energy to develop new photovoltaic concepts and a large industrial concentration of solar power plants, €9 billion for bioenergy research, which could cover 14% of the eu's energy needs.
to integrate renewable energy into the energy market, electricity grids would receive €2 billion, so that half of the grid could be operated using a smart grid principle.
apart from renewable energy, €13 billion is earmarked for up to 12 projects in the field of carbon capture and storage, while nuclear research would receive €7 billion.
the commission pointed out at the time that public-private partnerships were the most credible way of financing energy research, but could not explain precisely how the financial burden should then be shared between the two sides.
at present, the energy research division is 70% private and 30% public, except for nuclear research.
at present, 80% of public investment in non-nuclear energy research is financed at national level.
firstly, how does the commission intend to set its priorities for the 2010-2020 roadmap to support the financing of low-carbon technologies?
and last but not least, how does the commission - and this is of course always the council - intend to make available additional funds from the eu budget to finance technological options other than those mentioned in the communication, including storage technologies, tidal energy, etc.
on the one hand, we will not be able to put joint pressure on the member states and the commission if we continue to have an ideological debate which is always about nuclear energy.
we have found a compromise on the set plan, and the compromise is that we have said what criteria we want to promote, only the criteria are clearly defined, namely sustainability, competitiveness and security of supply.
the question is whether the member states are prepared to adopt a coherent approach to energy policy.
we want a strategy for europe which puts social and environmental needs ahead of competitive interests.
the greek crisis is a current problem, but the growth crisis and the environmental crisis are long-term problems, both of which must be tackled with decisive action by the european council.
the eu 2020 strategy rightly states that growth should be smart, sustainable and inclusive.
so growth cannot be intelligent if it is not sustainable, and it is not intelligent if it is not inclusive.
i am very pleased that resource and energy-saving growth should be a flagship for the eu.
we must above all make the target of 20% energy saving binding.
i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its approach to the problem of the problem of the environment.
the european labour ministers are therefore called upon to urge the g20 members to: firstly, not roll back stimulus packages but to use them more and more to create jobs; secondly, to use financially secured short-time work to counter job losses; thirdly, to use public investment for job creation and sustainable ecological growth; and fourthly, to strengthen and expand social security measures to provide access to it.
as you know, that meeting had on its agenda our economic strategy for europe 2020, and our strategy for global negotiations on climate change.
based on the proposals of the european commission – and i would like to pay tribute at this point the work of president barroso, – we have already identified five key targets on which our efforts should focus: first, bringing the employment rate up to 75%, notably through the greater participation of youth, older workers, low-skilled workers and the better integration of legal migrants;second, improving the conditions for research and development, in particular with the aim of bringing combined public and private investment levels in this sector to 3% of gdp;third, reaffirming, and integrating into our economic strategy, the climate change targets that we have already committed to achieve by the year 2020; fourth, improving education levels, in particular by aiming to reduce school dropout rates, and by increasing the share of the population having completed tertiary or equivalent education;finally, promoting social inclusion, in particular through the reduction of poverty.
they do, of course, represent key aspects of what has been called the ‘european model’ of society, where market forces are tempered by social commitment, and indeed by environmental awareness.
the european council went on to have a discussion on climate change and on how to refocus our efforts after copenhagen.
the union and its member states will implement their commitment to provide eur 2.4 billion annually over the 2010-2012 period for fast-start financing, and we remain committed to jointly mobilise usd 100 billion per year by 2020 to help developing countries fight climate change.
we will hold a dedicated european council debate on energy policy, and on how to shift towards an efficient, low-carbon economy, exploring all its aspects, including security of supply.
following this european council, we now have precise figures agreed for employment, research and development, as well as climate and energy.
the european council also devoted attention to climate change, endorsing the main messages set out in the commission’s communication.
(applause from the centre) all this negative energy towards greece is also accompanied by the decision to stay out of the way of solving the problems in greece.
europe 2020 the climate: if this is a sign of success or failure, what is connie hedegaard supposed to be driving to bonn in may?
so much negative energy from germany!
with the european maritime strategy 2018, we are providing a framework to make the european maritime economy more competitive at international level, and we have stated in the strategy that we want to align this framework firstly with environmental standards and secondly with reasonable global social standards for good quality shipping.
firstly, shipping is an environmentally friendly transport sector, and it was therefore our objective that this sector should continue to contribute to the fight against climate change.
the environment has already been mentioned.
shipping is very environmentally friendly, especially in terms of co2 emissions.
it can still improve considerably in terms of nitrogen oxides and sulphur emissions.
agriculture is the sector of the economy which is doing and can do the most to protect the environment.
the commission has already succeeded in reducing greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture by 20%.
agriculture is therefore part of the solution to the problem of climate change.
on the other hand, food production for 500 million eu citizens must be a priority, while using resources as efficiently as possible and protecting the environment and biodiversity as much as possible.
only in this way can we produce enough food to feed a growing world population and at the same time preserve the environment to combat climate change.
climate protection must also be part of the new agricultural reform, it must be built into it.
we need sustainable and ecological processes in the future that guarantee climate protection.
agriculture is not only a victim of climate change, it is also a major part of the cause.
after all, 10% of the greenhouse gases come from agriculture.
this is also part of the solution to the environmental problem of climate change.
this time, it was not a major accident, or the fight against climate change, or the high cost of jet fuel that was the deciding factor.
the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on 29 june 2012 and entered into force on 1 january 2013. but the conclusion we should draw is that rail is not only the safest mode of transport, it is also necessary to ensure mobility and to stop climate change.
as we might have guessed, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, which is also responsible for disaster prevention, has an own-initiative report on the community approach to natural disasters in the pipeline.
it's still about the climate crisis, it's still about the financial and economic crisis.
we are also in favour of energy taxation.
on climate change: the different dgs currently dealing with climate change are working on scenarios with different targets for 2050. the long-term reduction target is 70% for transport and 75% for energy.
what is the point of all this talk about the new, big european climate diplomacy if we have clearly written off bali or agreements made in the g8?
what are you going to do to re-establish our strategically important industrial sectors in europe and what is the commission's role in making the automotive industry sustainable and in safeguarding jobs?
why is this not included in eu 2020 and what does the commission intend to do to ensure that the employment potential of a sustainable economy in europe is really used, especially since the belgian presidency of the council has made this an essential point in its concept, because it believes that there is a great opportunity in this?
because it means that, as canada is chairing the g8 and g20 summit at the end of june, our eu-canada summit allows us to take stock and align our strategies on global themes that will figure on the g8 and g20 summits, for example how to promote a sustainable economic recovery, cooperation on financial market reform and regulation, climate change and combating nuclear proliferation.
the summit will cover climate change.
taking into account the post-copenhagen context, adaptation to and mitigation of climate change will continue to top the agenda and will require supportive energy policies.
the consequence of climate change for the arctic will be another important element of our discussions at the summit.
nowhere are the effects of climate change more keenly felt than in the arctic region.
environmental changes have a growing impact on the arctic’s people, biodiversity and landscape – both on land and at sea.
with more than 40% of its land mass in the north, canada shares our interest in protecting the arctic environment and ensuring the sustainable economic and social development of the region.
secondly, as has already been said: we are also closely linked in our objectives on climate policy.
the simplification that you all praise here means that large-scale waste water treatment plants and huge waste incineration plants no longer have to be approved by the commission for investments of 25 million, as was previously provided for in the regulation, but only for investments of 50 million.
unlike in the past, there is no longer any check on whether such projects comply with eu environmental legislation or not.
we greens had therefore already called for an extension of ten years in the regulation in order to really bring sustainability to investment and to keep jobs in the region on a permanent basis.
more sustainability in the stay of projects in the region would also prevent project operators from receiving european funding and simply disappearing after five years.
we therefore believe that the sustainability clause should remain in place for small and mediumsized enterprises for five years, rather than just three years as provided for in the amendment.
we greens are against this too, because a combination of more generous investment without checks and too short a sustainability period is massively encouraging money to be thrown out the window.
however, we all know that it will not be sufficient to accelerate concrete and sustainable progress on the spot.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
since may 2005, highly qualified people have been forced to work in a completely hostile environment.
it is essential to give priority to achieving greater sustainability and effectiveness of projects in those countries where people are actually suffering from dire hardship.
i was particularly impressed by the speeches by mrs roithová, mr březina and mr mészáros, who described how similar ruthless exploitation had taken place in their former country, communist czechoslovakia, how a change of mind had begun and how they are now the ones who are advocating the protection of the environment and uniform european standards.
it is crucial that we have common european standards, because rivers are transboundary and cyanide is of course also an environmental hazard that is transboundary.
environmental technologies have been developed in germany to help avoid cyanide in the future.
we must not limit ourselves to the european union, but we must also make sure that we succeed in achieving a breakthrough in international trade, in the interests of the environment and our economy.
i've heard the reference to global regulation in the climate debate.
climate is the second big issue for me.
if we do not raise this target, we can forget, for example, about our famous european emissions trading scheme.
the transformation of the european economy towards sustainability - as is reflected in the headlines of the commission's programme - would be something that everyone would say they want to be a part of.
there are a number of them: energy policy, energy interconnections, high-speed rail and road networks, navigation systems and so on.
we need a thorough analysis and not superficial conclusions, as the commissioner for climate has recently drawn, which, in view of the crisis and the fact that we are now emitting less co2, suggests that we can now also aim for 30 or 40%.
so i am very pleased that the title of the eu 2020 strategy is now sustainability.
this is the right way to go, and it involves a better balance between economic, social and environmental developments and needs.
sustainability has the disadvantage that it's a general term, which can also be an empty bag, so we have to make it concrete.
resource efficient europe is right - we are short of energy, we are short of raw materials - but the goals are missing and the instruments are missing to achieve resource efficiency in production as well as consumption.
the environmental capital has been somewhat neglected in this resource-efficient europe, because air, water, soil and ecosystems are resources.
i would like the environment committee to give us more information on what we are going to do.
the biodiversity strategy has failed, a new one is being drawn up by 2020, and this point must be taken into account.
climate change has certainly been overturned many times.
i think we need to go from 20 to 30 per cent reduction, and we need binding targets on energy efficiency.
one of the key actions to be taken in the context of europe 2020 is to use sustainable development to tap the green job potential.
thirdly, we have to take electric cars into account for co2 emissions.
transport in europe is responsible for about 30% of co2 emissions, with road transport accounting for the largest share.
but the prerequisite is this: there must be no revival of dangerous nuclear energy, which is why renewable energy generation is the conditio sine qua non.
and the result of the whole cycle from production to use to waste and recycling must be positive.
replacing today's fleet of cars with electric cars will neither solve congestion nor protect the climate.
e-cars will solve the emissions problem at best.
energy has to be renewable, and we need raw materials, so trade is affected.
the committee on industry, research and energy is of course also concerned with protecting small and mediumsized enterprises.
it is creating real value for the people of europe through its investments in its six flagship programmes - from tens to support for smes - and special programmes such as the fight against climate change.
three brief comments on the report: first, agriculture is not the problem with climate change, it is the solution to the problem.
secondly, we are only at the beginning of climate change research, although the media sometimes give the impression that we are not.
we should also take into account and pursue theories and results that do not fit into the expected mainstream in climate research.
and agrofuels may reduce co2 emissions a little bit in the eu, but they lead to deforestation and land use change in the developing world, and therefore more climate change, which we were just trying to avoid, not to mention the displacement of indigenous people and the loss of biodiversity and land for food.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european parliamentary committee on the environment is a very good one.
there is agreement that we need more staff for enlargement, more places for the library, for information technology, for studies, and that we need to give greater weight to environmental protection here in the house, and that it would be very good to have more bicycles available in strasbourg too, so that not so many people have to use the transport service.
we should not now change the statute of our members, but we should commit ourselves to taking fewer business flights, for example on short business trips, if possible, in order to implement the environmental protection we always demand politically, also in terms of our own behaviour and our own home.
it is therefore very encouraging that by increasing efficiency - for example, by 12.9% less co2 emissions in 2008 - we have been able to improve our own environmental performance.
these are attempts, failures and attempts which have so far cost a total of 90 million euros, which many consider to be a waste.
but i also think it is very important that when this money is paid to the national parliaments, the national states, it does not disappear somewhere in the budget, but that it is actually used to build a sustainable structure, that the money should actually be passed on to the communities and cities where the integration actually takes place, where the kindergarten places and the housing are provided.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by mr miroslav mikolášik, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the quality and safety of human organs intended for transplantation (com (2008) 0818 - c6-0480/2008 - 2008/0238 (cod)) (a7-0106/2010) and the report by mr andres perello rodriguez, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the commission communication action plan on organ donation and transplantation (2009-2015): enhanced cooperation between member states (2009/2104 (ini)) (a7-0103/2010).
the europe 2020 strategy is therefore a way of responding to a fundamental problem in the productive economic system, a way of preventing such fundamental weaknesses in the system in the future, a way of giving competitiveness and productivity to the union's economic system and of addressing those technological added value objectives, taking into account the social impact and therefore the need for labour specialisation, employability and also the fight against climate change.
we are not doing it for the sake of the mystical market forces but for the sake of sustainable growth and job creation in europe, by ensuring that the threats to financial stability will not kill the economic recovery that is now in progress – though this is still rather modest and fragile.
beyond that, our member states have understood the paramount importance of fiscal consolidation to ensure the sustainability of public finances and thus preconditions for sustainable economic growth.
second, stronger fiscal surveillance should be accompanied by broader macroecomic surveillance, to go to the roots and origins of sustainable economic development.
just to give you one figure: while the average debt in europe is, at the moment, around 75%, in estonia it is around 7.5% – not 75% but 7.5% – on a sustainable basis.
this proposal sends an important signal to all that the euro area will withstand pressure with self-confidence, and sustainable economic and fiscal policies will bring fruit for member states.
to undermine climate policy, to undermine sustainable development today, as it seems, would be to actually implement the devil's script.
we must ensure jobs through innovation, via viability, via sustainability, and for that we also need money!
what is missing is the sustainable effective re-regulation of the financial sector.
government measures which influence the economic environment through general laws.
the committee on the environment recommends that the plenary should prevent the sticking together of pieces of meat and therefore not include thrombin as an additive.
if we have now banned it as a food additive, are we still allowed to exist, or do we have to dispose of it slowly as special waste?
i must say that you have recognised that the transition to a green economy must be started now, because climate change will threaten the eu's economic success.
there are studies showing that the energy transition alone could create 8 million new jobs.
the report also rightly points out that a meaningful assessment of the social, consumer, environmental and economic impact of the internal market and the decisions we take in the internal market is of great importance.
but i am deeply convinced that cohesion policy can and will make a huge contribution to the 2020 strategy, not only because we have a considerable budget compared to other european policies, but above all because cohesion policy makes it possible for sustainable development to take place in the regions and that restructuring processes and also challenges in the regions can be well accompanied.
economic, sustainable and social, these are the three pillars on which the eu 2020 strategy stands or falls.
keywords for this are, for example, social integration, the environment, transport, but also demographic change.
i would like to begin by thanking the commission and my colleagues on the environment committee and the committee on industry and energy for the exciting and interesting debates on nuclear waste disposal!
for dismantling, and waste management, waste strategies for interim storage, i.e.
about 120 million euros, be invested at least in part in the planning and preparation of the final disposal of highly radioactive waste in bulgaria or that they also start preparing a fund for this task, which has not been addressed in bulgaria so far.
firstly, in connection with dismantling, disposal and final or even interim storage, i would like the commission to monitor very closely how much money it really costs to do what is happening in kozloduy, how much money we actually need to ensure that decommissioning and waste disposal and final storage are carried out carefully and in accordance with high safety standards.
i am glad that the report is the beginning of a political debate with commissioner oettinger, which i am sure will be lively, on the disposal of nuclear waste in general and which i hope will help us to move forward.
the international atomic energy agency had examined these chernobyl-type reactors and found no way of achieving safety standards, as they generally existed in the old european union, by retrofitting them.
secondly, i would like to point out once again that so far none of these countries, nor any country in western europe or anywhere else in the world, has been able to demonstrate a responsible approach to the problem of disposing of highly radioactive waste.
this is indeed a debate which those who are in favour of high-risk nuclear technology must deal with in particular, because nuclear waste disposal as it stands today - in my view and with the support of the majority of citizens in europe - is such a great, unresolved risk that it alone is against the continuation of the use of nuclear energy.
because i would like to say that this is not a french spleen, as some people say, and not a waste, as has just been said, but the most important foreign policy instrument of the european union after the eastern partnership!
also, the proposal to use part of the funds to help bulgaria find a solution for the final storage of nuclear waste was rejected.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
we can use the cap reform to focus on sustainable agriculture and eliminate all direct and indirect export subsidies – and we can stop acta, for which the commission still has not delivered the proof that it will not hinder access to medicine and technology transfer.
we want to change our transport policy to stop climate change.
in the current environment, we can be sure that the commission, eurostat and the ecb have been very careful and have not been dismissive in their assessment of the figures.
i wish estonia continued good progress and hope that its performance, especially in terms of budgetary discipline and the fight against inflation, will continue to be sustainable.
the vote will take place on wednesday 16 june 2010. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by renate sommer, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on consumer information on foodstuffs (com (2008) 0040 c6-0052/2008 2008/0028 cod)).
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation is a good example of the need to ensure that the environment is protected against the adverse effects of ionising radiation.
we want flexible and effective solutions and we are also in favour of strengthening rail transport for environmental reasons.
the commission works with the member states to ensure robust prevention and emergency response systems in order to protect european citizens and the environment.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would ask you to say again whether you think the environmental liability directive for offshore oil and gas production is sufficient.
do you really think that the environmental and climatic conditions in the arctic are conducive to human and technical development, so that such risks of undersea oil production can be taken there too?
we have binding new standards and requirements applicable to offshore drilling and oil production facilities as regards equipment standards, worker safety, environmental sustainability, emergency prevention and preparedness.
this system includes a set of tools managed by the european maritime agency, focusing on prevention of pollution and response to pollution.
regarding the concrete point you made on liability, most european legislation on safety and the environment does not target particular industries, but we can see that this legislation is applicable to all relevant economic sectors.
for instance, the commitments taken in terms of fast-start financing for the fight against climate change.
in addition, the implementation of the lisbon treaty with new priorities in external action, sport, space, climate change, energy, to name a few.
the commission is also proposing to introduce a tax on carbon dioxide emissions and financial transactions, so that we do not have to pay new taxes on the citizens, but rather to put the european budget on a transparent footing.
in the case of the structural funds, when we talk about climate policy, it is obvious that our structural policy must also be different and more sustainable if we are to take our own climate policy objectives seriously.
we should not waste any more time, we have already lost many years with the old structures.
firstly, to combat the economic recession, the collapse of the financial system, it has been preparing an economic strategy for the future, to get out of the crisis, and at the same time it has been raising the need for taxation, for sustainable fiscal consolidation for the future, to the various states.
we therefore have a clear statement in the council conclusions of the need for fiscal consolidation in the member states of the union and, consequently, for a strategy of fiscal sustainability which, taken as a whole, will last until 2013, generally until 2013, when the objectives set out in the maastricht treaty will have to be finally achieved.
there is a third and important dimension to this whole strategy, which is sustainable growth and the creation of quality jobs.
we need intelligent, sustainable and inclusive growth.
that is why the europe 2020 strategy places at its heart the elements of growth – intelligent, sustainable and inclusive growth.
we must also show that the crisis has not dimmed our commitment to the millennium development goals or our determination to lead on climate change.
all the major economies need to play their part to achieve the agreed objectives of strong, balanced, sustainable growth.
we agree with the european trade union confederation: an eu-wide financial transaction tax, eurobonds, eco-taxes and rigorous taxation of high incomes, wealth and inheritances can make it possible to invest in the ecological and social transformation of our industrial societies.
europe now needs firstly a european social and ecological investment programme for the future to overcome the crisis, secondly decisive measures to break the power of the financial markets, and thirdly a european economic government and more economic democracy in the interests of the wage-earners.
work on the rule of law and fighting corruption will also contribute to a more business-friendly environment.
on energy our discussions focused on physical infrastructure, on the legal basis for our energy relations, and on energy efficiency.
we need to see solid energy provisions in our new agreement, reflecting the principles of the energy charter treaty.
we also underlined that we see the energy charter as the most natural forum to discuss proposals for a multilateral energy security framework.
energy efficiency and reducing greenhouse gases are key in the fight against climate change.
we have great common interests in the economic field, in the energy field.
but as you said, the fundamental issues which have been dealt with in the energy charter and which have not been applied are important to many of us.
energy and the environment are central to a constructive relationship between the eu and russia, aimed at solving existing problems.
we have too often referred to energy policy as a strategic instrument of cooperation and a positive example of confidence building, but it is in the energy sector in particular that there is too much misunderstanding and omission.
what mr schlyter is saying is something which was also voted on again in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety under point (b), but which is numbered with (ba).
the framework agreement, which we signed last month, provides a basis for closer cooperation on major political issues such as human rights, non-proliferation, counter-terrorism, climate change and energy security.
in this challenging environment the commission continues to promote reforms through a continuous dialogue with the authorities.
four points were mentioned: environment: we can still achieve a lot together through emissions trading, precisely because we have such a large share of the world market.
the subsidies for the climate killer air transport are also fatal, even though the emissions in the stratosphere are three to four times as dangerous to the climate as those on the ground.
the european environment agency estimates that subsidies to air transport are worth more than €30 billion each year.
in the case of emissions trading, the airlines receive 85% of the allowances as a gift, and the railway must purchase them 100% of the time.
to save the climate and to ensure mobility, we need fair competition.
but there are clear weaknesses: the fight against climate change has not been included in this resolution, and if we look at the study 'regions 2020', we see that in the future 150 million people will have to leave their homes if we do not act now to combat climate change.
that is why we must put climate change at the centre of future european regional policy in order to prevent floods.
but the questions we have to ask are whether, in the knowledge that these natural events can always happen, the right measures have been taken to prevent damage from such natural events and whether, for example, in landscape planning, the issues of sustainable disaster prevention have been duly taken into account.
we know from the meeting of the environment ministers that we disagree.
2010 is the international year of biodiversity, which means that the protection of ecosystems and endangered species is at the heart of our efforts during these months.
the oceans are increasingly polluted, and climate change will bring new pressures.
but aquaculture is only an alternative if environmental concerns are not overlooked.
i therefore call on the commission to adapt the directives for natura 2000 sites as soon as possible so that sustainable aquaculture is also possible in these areas and can thus make a positive contribution to their management.
these must be made aware of the need for a quality policy and for stricter production standards, particularly with regard to environmental protection, hygiene and social standards in their production.
public interest in sustainable fisheries management is growing.
the energy there could supply the whole continent, and a somewhat functioning rule of law would help all of africa to build a stable order.
they are vital targets and incorporate the social, environmental and educational dimensions that your parliament has rightly insisted on.
we also reconfirm the european union’s position on achieving the millennium development goals, in particular our development aid targets, by 2015. despite the economic crisis we also reaffirmed our willingness to progress further on climate change.
indeed, rather than the absolute level it is the direction and its sustainability that are important.
in front of this house i said that in the face of the current economic problems growth is the answer and that this growth has to be smart, sustainable, inclusive, that it must build on fiscal consolidation and structural reforms and that, for this to happen, we need to advance on several fronts at once, namely: by adopting the europe 2020 strategy; by rapidly concluding the remaining work in financial market regulation and supervision; by coming forward with ambitious measures to enforce our economic governance in europe; and finally by entering the g20 meeting in toronto with a strong and united european union position.
another central strand of our action, and i think probably one of the most important conclusions of this european council, was of course europe 2020. this has now been accepted by the european council as a european union strategy for economic growth for the long term in the sustainable and inclusive way we proposed just a few months ago and to which this house has given substantial input.
we have better words than in the lisbon strategy, but for the better words 'sustainable development', which we can hardly say enough here today, we lack all the instruments and, in fact, the money, just as in the lisbon strategy.
what strikes me as a green person is that there is still no awareness that resource efficiency, energy efficiency, ambitious climate action can and should really be a driver of innovation.
my god, nobody in europe has ever understood what sustainable development is!
it's good for the drivers and it's good for having fewer accidents, and it's good for the environment.
transport policy is of great importance for the protection of the environment, but also for the protection of human health.
we need a substantial improvement in the environmental performance of road transport.
we need real innovation here to reduce co2 emissions, but also nitrogen oxides and particulate matter.
we must also include air and sea transport more fully in the environmental strategy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
mobility has to change to stop climate change.
transport is responsible for 30% of co2 emissions in the eu, and unlike industry or the insulation of homes, where we have achieved a 10% reduction since 1990, transport has increased by 35%.
air transport, a climate killer, is subsidised by some 30 billion euros every year.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport infrastructure is not affected by the effects of the climate change.
a sustainable future for transport requires all modes of transport to address societal, environmental and economic challenges.
transport is certainly a major driver of cohesion in europe, but a separate fund from cohesion policy funds would not meet the expectations it raises, would unilaterally burden the cohesion fund and would relieve too much of the burden on member states, which are particularly called upon to ensure a sustainable future for transport.
i also think that when we talk about the sustainability and future of transport systems, we should also give magnetic levitation a future and an opportunity.
this is particularly true of co2 emissions from transport.
the european transport policy is particularly important in reducing co2 emissions.
these are the factors that make for sound planning, not just economic efficiency, but also social, environmental and sustainable efficiency.
we also need to look at how we can make the areas that are more environmentally friendly, such as rail and also maritime transport, even better, how we can get more of the road there, how we can make maritime transport more environmentally friendly in terms of emissions.
the report reflects the multiple challenges facing the baltic sea countries and calls for the problems of managing environmental damage in the baltic sea, economic development and the development of transport infrastructure to be addressed and solved in transnational, macro-regional cooperation.
this is not a sustainable condition.
we want to minimize systemic risk in a sustainable way.
the council presidency, which is absent, must live up to its responsibilities, maintain a close dialogue with the european parliament and the commission and convert national thinking into common, consistent and sustainable action.
one is the environmental requirements in industrial plants.
the economic and ecological collapse of the gdr was the result of decades of slumbering over investment in the latest technology.
i believe that every industry, every industrial enterprise, is called upon to invest in the latest technology because otherwise it loses its competitiveness and, of course, also reduces its emissions.
we are talking again - we did this in the last directive - about new exemptions until 2020, and possibly 2023 for large combustion plants which do not have to meet environmental requirements, in particular the limit values for air pollutants.
i would like to make an appeal to the council, and perhaps to all of us, to think very carefully about the practical value of regularly welcoming ambitious environmental objectives, discussing them and welcoming them here, but whenever it is a question of implementing them, of translating them into concrete legislation, a mourning game begins in europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not only a matter of energy efficiency, but also of the protection of the environment.
the european environment agency has given us a report, and it shows that we still have some very bad conditions in terms of air pollution, nitrogen oxides, dust.
and thirdly, the world is still fine, even with the greens, football is more important than environmental protection.
i understand that not every environmental policy step taken in the western european countries in the last few decades can be immediately followed in eastern europe.
environmental protection at a high level must be affordable.
and i think that we have not only made a breakthrough in environmental policy with the directive, but also in industrial policy, which is worth working towards in the coming years.
but of course, what applies to this law is the same as for all environmental laws: you cannot just write down what you want, but you must also always see whether what you write down and prescribe is ultimately practical.
our companies that use wood from sustainable and legal sources will also benefit.
we are therefore in favour of a more flexible approach to the problem of the environment.
unfortunately, the political climate in the country is poisoned by the irresponsible game of a few in the socialist opposition.
my committee has also had a wider debate and i thank you for allowing us to hear the results of your analysis next week, very promptly, with the coordinators of the committee on industry and the committee on the environment, so that we can work beyond the summer break.
the integrated maritime policy you have called for is a major project for the eu, and the use of marine energy - the renewable energy that the deep sea has, the currents that represent, perhaps other forms that we are still inventing - is really very good.
our laws must be put to the test, because european environmental responsibility does not intervene in the event of oil disasters on the high seas.
with 320 000 km of sea coastline in the european union, there is an urgent need to move away from oil and towards an energy future based on renewable energy.
i am also very grateful that we will be briefed in detail again next week on the further course of events, both by the committee on the environment and by the committee on industry.
but what i think is important for us, and i stress this, is that we hope to have a greener cap - not just green in the sense of a sustainable energy policy, but green in the sense of a sustainable agricultural policy - that we do not just see competition as a way of competing on the world market, but that we simply pay more attention to the situation within european agriculture and put the conditions of competition within european agriculture in the foreground, and that we do not just submit to the wto rules for future agricultural policy, but ultimately develop a strong common european agricultural policy.
it is important that we qualify the direct payments of the first pillar in the future towards a sustainable agricultural policy and that we need a strong second pillar for rural development, with jobs at the forefront.
we want to emphasise that agricultural policy is a genuine policy for the future, geared to being a policy for rural areas, aimed at food security, soil, water and biodiversity, that we also use agricultural policy to combat climate change and, last but not least, that we also see it as an important tool for safeguarding jobs.
in this report, we describe the impact of the common agricultural policy after 2013. european agriculture produces high-quality food, safeguards vital rural areas and thus many jobs, preserves and maintains our cultural landscape and thus biodiversity, and can contribute to the conservation of fossil resources by producing renewable raw materials and energy.
i believe that three points are essential if we are to continue to ensure that farming is widespread and sustainable throughout europe.
the strong fluctuations in liberalised markets and the impact of climate change will continue to require a safety net.
new objectives have emerged from market orientation, product safety, animal welfare and the environmental and biodiversity requirements of climate change.
an active rural area is an attractive living environment not only for farmers but also for people who do not want to live in cities.
it is not possible that we in europe demand high standards of consumer protection, animal welfare and environmental protection and do not demand this for imports.
i have tabled an amendment to the lyon report, recital a: 'whereas the cap is to be geared to the preservation and development of a multifunctional, comprehensive and sustainable agriculture in europe.'
i therefore welcome the broad support in this house, because we have already achieved a great deal: firstly, a stable food supply for the population; secondly, the care and preservation of the cultural landscape; and thirdly, the renewal of important resources, the protection of the environment and of flora and fauna.
this includes so-called green growth, renewable energy and the fight against world hunger.
the european union must also be prepared to promote and support this vital sector in the face of increasing demands for a healthy environment, healthy food, and for precautionary measures and sustainability in agricultural production.
europe, as a climate-friendly zone, is also responsible for the world's food supply.
a healthy environment must be produced and maintained here.
the first is ecological, social and qualitative.
we should develop this economic sector, provide scientific support and, above all, make it sustainable.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment.
the korean government is planning to regulate carbon emissions in the automotive sector.
we must strengthen civil society, we must ensure that basic ilo standards and basic environmental standards are respected, and we must also involve civil society in the monitoring of the agreement in the form of the domestic advisory groups.
we want social and environmental standards to be respected.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
this could be achieved, inter alia, by fair market transparency that is also sustainable on the global market.
and so, yes, you are right, we also need a sustainable new industrial policy that combines ecology and economics for social justice.
we have taken the initiative here in parliament to promote green jobs and are thus paving the way for this, creating new opportunities for sustainable employment and good work.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the environment in the community.
but if you sell food below its energy value, that is, if the thermal recovery brings in more money than the sale of food, then something is wrong with the system.
- i voted today in favour of the own-initiative report by mrs schroedter on the further development of the employment potential of a new sustainable economy.
this means jobs in almost all relevant industrial and service sectors that contribute to a sustainable economy.
environmental protection can become an economic engine if we create in time predictable and investment-friendly conditions.
most european companies are undoubtedly the world's pioneers in successful environmental protection.
to ensure fair competition, it is necessary to prevent the relocation of production from the eu to third countries with low environmental standards.
secondly, if principles such as work-life balance, social cohesion, sustainable economies, investment and education are mentioned and no concrete action is taken, then this is a weakness of the report.
and the european union - that is what the member states wanted - has been given new tasks by the treaty of lisbon, which must then also be carried out, in energy policy, foreign policy and other areas.
because then every dollar you spend on them is a waste of money.
− one of the ideas we have, and i mentioned this during my hearing back in january, is that in the new financial perspective we will try to have a system of climate proofing of projects.
in other words, if the european union contributes to financing say, an infrastructure project – a huge construction project of some kind – it would be practical for us to take into consideration, at the construction stage, what we know about rising water levels and about the impact of climate change.
in other words, one of our priorities is to see if we could have climate proofing of the way that we spend money, so that we only provide eu financial support for projects for which we are sure that all the knowledge we have on adaptation requirements for the area in question is being taken into consideration.
i think it is very well known to those of you who are here that the eu’s objective on climate change is a comprehensive, legally-binding agreement that allows us to limit temperature increase to below 2°c.
deforestation – formally establishing the reduction of emissions from deforestation and forest degradation mechanisms as foreseen in the copenhagen accord – should also be one of the deliverables from a package agreed in cancún.
but we should also now try to discuss the architecture of the longer term, including how to establish a ‘green climate fund’.
preferably we would also like to see decisions on new carbon market mechanisms to continue the development of the global carbon market for emission trading – in other words, modernisation of the cdm.
finally, it is also on our wish list that we should see progress when it comes to emissions from aviation and maritime transport.
that is about environmental integrity, because there are today some weaknesses in the kyoto protocol that undermine its environmental integrity.
we are the world leader on climate action.
in parallel, we have intensified the day-to-day outreach on climate carried out through the eu’s network of delegations.
as rapporteur on demographic change and generational justice, i have called on member states to establish transparent and sustainable monitoring systems.
we all need to change our mindsets in favor of sustainable care that is always about people, not just about cost.
on the digital environment (internet), which is one of the most sensitive but also the most ‘innovative’ chapters of acta, there was a considerable step back in the last round, with the parties unable to agree on a common liability exemption regime for internet service providers.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already said that he is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
israel has an unquestionable tradition of a free, open, and vibrant civil society playing a positive role in many sectors, including monitoring human rights, both in israel and in the occupied palestinian territories, as well as highlighting environmental and cultural issues.
i do not want to point the finger at any one country, but i think it is pointed at all of us, because the eu strategy for 2010 has not worked and we must find new approaches for the new decade up to 2020. in a few weeks' time, the un conference on biodiversity will be held in nagoya, and i hope it will not be as disappointing as the un climate conference in copenhagen.
we must commit ourselves to a global ambitious programme for the conservation of biodiversity.
i also believe that the key to success is to see biodiversity as a cross-cutting task.
parliament will be committed to biodiversity.
we must be sustainable and responsible in our use of nature's great gift.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european environment agency.
the introduction of integrated pest management and the possibility of targeting plant protection to individual pathogens is particularly beneficial for biodiversity.
but to develop a sustainable and stable agriculture, we need fair prices for agricultural products on the world market.
and it stays with the energy mix.
and secondly, following on from a comment by mr swoboda, i would like to take up again this idea of the energy community in the european union.
the next climate summit is coming up in cancún.
i have been receiving more and more inquiries in recent weeks and months from businessmen complaining about the deteriorating business climate in china.
but it also means seeing this in trade and economic standards, in universal human rights, environmental and social rights - there has to be shared responsibility here too.
we have an interest in finding a compromise in climate policy.
we want sustainability in general, and we do not want a colonial discourse, but we want relations on an equal footing with the chinese.
it is also a prerequisite for our ability to adapt to climate change.
this biodiversity is now threatened all over the world, all by humans.
we must therefore stop the loss of biodiversity and try to repair the damage caused.
the best way to protect biodiversity is to use it sustainably.
so we also need a strategy for the sustainable use of biocides and for information on alternatives.
parliament proposes clear and unambiguous exclusion criteria and we define narrow exceptions to meet the respective needs of human health and the environment.
biocides are often hard to degrade, some are carcinogenic or other highly toxic poisons and can cause harm to humans, animals and the environment when used or disposed of.
the aim of this regulation, as proposed by the commission, is to increase the free movement of biocidal products within the european union, or will the plenary be concerned with the protection of people and the environment?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new chemicals.
these are all advances, we can tell the citizens, and they are in the service of health and the environment.
the compromise reached compensates for the shortcomings of the existing directive, harmonises the authorisation procedures - which i consider to be extremely important - and ensures a high level of protection for health and the environment.
it is very important and the debate has clearly emphasized that these products are important for our environment and for development in agriculture and the food sector.
the general objective of the proposed regulation is to improve the functioning of the internal market for biocidal products, while ensuring a high level of environmental and health protection.
the environment and health standards were at the forefront of all our discussions.
this is a waste of human resources.
we do not want new eu taxes that burden citizens more, but we greens want a system of own resources where we collect more environmental taxes and a financial transaction tax, which means that the current payments of the member states will be less!
what we have to do, however, is to do the same with the lisbon treaty: we want to do more together on energy policy at european level, we want to do more to combat climate change, we want to do more for space travel, tourism and also in foreign policy.
at the same time, we are seeing such an inflation of strategies - the danube, the baltic sea, the black sea, climate change and more - that we will soon need a strategy for the strategies so that we can still keep track.
in 2008, after intensive negotiations, we decided to include aviation in emissions trading.
the increase in greenhouse gases is dramatic, and since 1990 greenhouse gas emissions from air travel have doubled.
in 1997, the international community, in the kyoto convention, delegated the task of reducing these greenhouse gases to the icao, and unfortunately it must be said that to date there are no concrete results at the icao.
this is important for the climate effect, and it is also important for fair competition.
i met the us negotiator last week and asked her: 'do you realize that the climate legislation that the house of representatives has passed and that president obama has always supported in words will also be affected by the position of the americans in the icao that a system can only be based on mutual recognition?'
obama should not talk about climate change, but do something about it.
we are gathered here today at just before midnight to discuss the issue of climate change.
we have - peter liese has just described it - fought a long time in this house to reach a compromise on the inclusion of air transport in the emissions trading system.
so far, my assessment of icao, as far as reducing co2 emissions in aviation is concerned, is: we've invested a lot of time, but the result is almost zero.
that means that if a plane takes off from washington and lands in the european union, it falls under the european union's emissions trading scheme.
climate change is a global problem, so we need to address it globally.
that is why i have no illusions that we will develop an international carbon tax.
that is why the second best solution at this point is emissions trading, and this is globally with a third country regime.
the obama administration has started with big, noble goals for climate legislation.
the united states is now playing the game of introducing climate legislation and harmonizing it internationally.
the un climate conference in copenhagen - we all know this - was a failure, it was not crowned with success.
i am afraid that annex 16, which covers all the environmental measures in the icao convention, will also fail in the case of icao.
i would also like to ask the commission: if there is no agreement on the inclusion of air transport in the emissions trading scheme, is the commission prepared to continue negotiations at the level of the icao?
there were already, when we adopted the directive, some voices of caution asking whether we really intended to end up by including third countries in emissions trading without consultation.
secondly, what measures are planned to implement the inclusion of airlines in emissions trading?
thirdly, is it true that the commission is considering or planning to withdraw eu air rights from airlines or third countries which refuse to participate in eu emissions trading?
i would remind you that the ecj is now hearing cases from third countries which simply refuse to be involved in eu emissions trading.
so if the airlines and the other countries don't want to be involved in the emissions trading, then we have to introduce the kerosene tax.
we know that air transport is very dangerous, and that the emissions in the air are three to four times as dangerous as those on the ground.
and we have not forgotten that in the case of emissions trading, 85% of the allowances are given to the airlines.
the train doesn't give anything away, she has to buy it 100% these unfair conditions must be changed, or we can bury our climate targets.
can any climate policy challenge be solved at the national level?
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
- i did not vote for this resolution because i believe that we are now experiencing an inflation of 'strategies' for the danube, the baltic, the black sea and the mediterranean, against climate change and so on, so that we need a strategy for strategies soon, so that we can still keep an overview.
the gulf of mexico has been the scene of one of the worst environmental disasters in recent years, and we in europe, in the european union, must do everything we can to prevent such a disaster from happening here.
we also want to know whether the environmental impact directive, the environmental impact assessment we are calling for on land, also applies to deep-sea drilling and what is there.
and i believe that this debate will of course also open the way to a different energy policy in the eu, for which you are also responsible.
the committee on the environment and the committee on industry were involved in the plenary together, were involved in the discussions with the commissioner together, where we were able to go into some of the issues in greater depth.
and then, unfortunately, the committee on the environment - i have to say, mrs tzavela has already raised this - thought that it should be the only one to table a resolution.
the environment committee felt that it should now come forward with a decision quickly, and now we have a resolution which i think is rushed, has errors, and which completely ignores a number of facts in research and technology - as mrs tzavela has just pointed out - which are not taken into account.
this strategy, which aims at employment and growth, integrates the economic, social, employment and environmental dimensions.
the eu 2020 growth strategy must be sustainable and inclusive.
issues such as the ageing population, rapidly changing technologies, climate change and other environmental challenges all need to be addressed with urgency.
we do not need an extra transport fund or an extra climate fund or an extra energy efficiency fund, but we need to look at how we can reconcile our challenges with a good cohesion policy.
and of course, we also stand for the fact that we want to improve infrastructure, that we want to support businesses, that we want to support sustainable economic growth.
but sustainable economic development is also possible only if we involve the workers, if we involve the people.
another commission study, the commission study regions 2020 shows that climate change is having a chilling negative impact on regional development.
this study shows that a third of the people in the european union would have to leave their homes if we don't stop climate change, because they can't find work or they can't live in their homes.
and this means that ecological issues and ecological criteria are also a key element for the prosperity of regions.
gdp guarantees that social power, education and employment opportunities are also fully taken into account, because when regions are poor, they cannot provide all this adequately and are also more likely to lose out in environmental protection.
the demands for independent eu funds for employment, climate change or energy must therefore not be allowed to become reality.
but at the same time, they are currently experiencing very particular environmental, economic and social problems.
after europe's first objective was to secure peace in europe, the next major challenge is to promote europe's interests in the world in the face of international challenges - from energy security to the fight against terrorism, globalisation and more.
the demand for sustainability of public finances is the reason given by many member states of the european union for the reduction of social benefits and transfers through cuts in health care, cuts in pension systems, reduction of labour market policy instruments, reduction of unemployment benefits, reduction of child and family benefits.
i would like to point out that the europe 2020 strategy and the european union's sustainability strategy are in conflict and that this is not the way to fight global poverty.
the political conflict we have to deal with - and this applies not only to the parliament's budget but to the commission's budget as well - is as follows: the lisbon treaty gives parliament greater powers in energy policy, foreign policy and participation in agriculture.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
as the author of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the budget, i am not telling anyone here anything new.
i would like to point out once again: the committee on the environment, public health and food safety is responsible for less than 1% of the overall budget, less than 1% of all actions on the environment, biodiversity, the fight against climate change, the whole area of public health, food and feed safety and veterinary measures, and for the very important work of five european agencies.
many colleagues have spoken, and i fully agree with them, that we must put the emphasis on research and development, renewable energy, energy security and educational mobility.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
and that has to be our common starting point, why it is right to fight for more funds in the european union and to think very carefully together about what the big funding needs are, how we can make our budget more sustainable, how it can become more social, how it can become more future-oriented.
first of all, i would like to thank the team of shadow rapporteurs of the legal affairs committee and the committee on industry, research and energy, the staff and all those who have contributed to this excellent result.
when i read in the newspaper that a pool of red mud had emerged from there, i asked myself, as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, how such a thing could be possible.
in it, the heads of government committed themselves to the following: 'we want to create a framework that outlines the policies and the common pathway for how we work together to create the strong, sustainable and balanced growth we need to create a lasting recovery that creates the good jobs our people need.'
so i ask you, what has been done in the meantime to create the sustainable, lasting, strong growth that will bring the jobs our people need?
we need deeper integration, more coordination of our economic and budgetary policies, we need european infrastructure projects in the fields of energy, transport and telecommunications.
since the 2008 financial crisis, the g20 heads of state and government have met regularly every six months to discuss economic and financial issues, to strengthen cooperation, and to achieve stable and sustainable growth in the global economy for the benefit of all.
however, i believe that we need a broader approach and a more balanced perspective on these problems in order to provide a sustainable and adequate response to the financial, economic or social problems of the crisis.
a sustainable eu financial, economic and employment policy must be the cornerstone of our action.
if we imagine the situation: a rural environment, there is not always electricity, the use of paper is perhaps an exception - therefore it is necessary that special attention is paid to ensuring that we achieve these initiatives.
the timeframe is too short, the results would not be very sustainable.
we want to allocate up to 348 million euros for cooperation in the fields of science, academic exchange, the erasmus mundus programme, culture, environmental protection and renewable energies, and the stimulation of bilateral trade relations.
ukraine has developed a dynamic and diverse civil society and media environment.
the adoption of a gas sector reform law, which paves the way for ukraine’s imminent accession to the energy community treaty, as well as the agreement it recently reached with the imf for a standby agreement, are also critical steps in securing macro-financial stability, transparency and a return to growth.
i am just as concerned to see that russia's influence has been systematically expanding in the ukrainian economy, in the energy sector, but also in other sectors.
is this really a big, sustainable aid for pakistan?
in fact, we would like to see more information, for example on the so-called ecological footprint of products, on the respect of workers' rights in the manufacturing process or on the fair share of the profits of producers and workers.
by taking into account low-carbon production methods and decent working conditions, we can address modern challenges.
we have taken these steps to ensure that we could debate the topic in a climate of mutual trust.
the internet is the most global, open and fast-moving market environment, where music, films, books and software circulate.
this, of course, can lead to a great environmental impact.
it is true that 70% of ship waste sinks in the sea, but there is also the question of what damage is done there.
and of course, that 15% is also a big risk to other ships or to platforms and to the environment.
i also believe the debate showed the importance to be attached to the protection of the environment.
safety and protection of the marine environment, as i said earlier, are very important priorities for the commission.
we already have quite a number of tools at our disposal to ensure safety, as well as the prevention of pollution, including from containers lost at sea.
there are already approaches to extract energy from the sea, to extract raw materials for medicine, cosmetics and industry.
green shipping, offshore energy - all this is know-how that is very much at home in europe and can be developed further.
we must therefore see that we can, for example, reduce emissions here and now and create a 'greener ship'.
energy -- there's a lot of things that are happening with and around the ocean right now.
we have oil and gas pipelines, oil platforms, offshore wind farms, and there is already a lot of thinking about how to equip tankers with sails so that they can then save 20 percent of their energy by using wind energy.
wave energy is a potential of the future, and mini-algae can serve as biomass and are -- almost an infinite source, you could say.
we are working on developing a sustainable tourism concept for the coasts.
firstly, in taking a forward-looking approach to the maritime dimension of the europe 2020 strategy and ensuring sustainable growth in maritime sectors and coastal regions.
these include europe’s approach to climate change mitigation in coastal regions and to sustainable coastal tourism, support for greener, safer and more competitive shipping through the common maritime space without borders, and further action on maritime safety and accident prevention.
we talk a lot about renewable energy.
the offshore wind farms, which are now increasingly generating energy in our seas, must be included in this - also from the fisheries point of view, also from the shipping safety point of view, and this is a major challenge.
the oceans are now transport routes, suppliers of raw materials, sources of energy, food suppliers and water reservoirs.
economic use will increase, environmental impact will increase.
the increasing use of the seas by maritime transport, the maritime economy, offshore energy and fisheries must be developed together.
i would therefore like to emphasize the good cooperation of the coastal states in the baltic sea strategy, which together promote the dynamic development of the fisheries industry, the environment, infrastructure and tourism in the coastal regions.
the oceans must be preserved as an ecosystem.
in this context, much needs to be done to ensure environmental protection and safe transport routes.
i would like to draw attention once again to the european union's transport strategy: from road to sea, that is our standard, efficient and ecological.
we must not set environmental targets as high as those for the sulphur emission control areas in the baltic and north seas in certain shipping areas, otherwise transport costs will increase enormously.
we must manage the finances of the eu concerning maritime issues in the context of the european commission’s proposal for a regulation to finance the integrated maritime policy in 2011, 2012 and 2013. the purpose of the proposed funding, namely of eur 50 million, is to continue the work undertaken since 2007 to remove policy barriers and to unleash synergies by bridging all policies that impact on the sea, such as transport, fisheries, customs and marine environmental protection.
furthermore, maritime surveillance is an important new initiative, which is set to engineer a huge change in all future actions by maritime authorities at sea and aims to install a common information-sharing environment for the eu maritime domain.
on sulphur emissions, the commission is fully aware of the concerns expressed by industry groups about the impacts that may occur due to the new marine fuel quality standards adopted by the imo in 2008. that is why the commission has called for – and subsequently hailed – the imo agreement which is now estimated to reduce emissions of sulphur dioxide by up to 90% and, most importantly, emissions of secondary particulate matter by up to 80%.
at present it does not have legal competence to regulate in the area of environmental disasters, but discussions are under way – within the context of the commission extending or renewing the mandate of the european maritime safety agency at present – as to whether more powers should be given to the agency in coming years.
we have included this because it was important to us that we do not have a distortion of competition on the one hand, but still make sure that we protect the environment better with shipping.
then my amendment was raised, which i tabled to include emissions trading.
we will start by reviewing relevant results of the g20 summit and will discuss our respective contributions to sustainable and balanced global recovery.
i would like to underline three elements in particular: the importance of strengthening the strategic components of the transatlantic economic council; the need for the tec to support and foster cooperation on all matters affecting the regulatory environment for industries and consumers in the eu and the us; and the crucial role of legislators in becoming guardians and actors in the convergence of our approaches.
the eu and the us are the world’s most integrated economies; we are each other’s largest trade and investment partners; we share common values and responsibilities for tackling global challenges on a variety of issues, be it innovation or environmental challenges, energy security or access to raw materials.
two years on, the eu and the us are now moving towards the next phase: the creation of smart and sustainable growth and jobs while facing serious challenges and increasing competition from emerging economies.
on energy policy: the eu-us energy council will meet on the eve of the summit; it will continue to work on framing joint responses to energy security.
our intention is that the summit should ask the energy council to intensify eu-us cooperation on the development and deployment of green energy technologies and promote exchanges between our researchers to allow them to participate freely in each other’s energy research programmes.
this work supports both our efforts on climate change and the creation of new jobs.
we are aware of the deep concern amongst our citizens, about the impact of the global climate change.
at the summit we will press the us on the need for the cancún conference to deliver a significant step towards a comprehensive global framework for tackling climate change.
as well as working on implementing millennium development goals on food security and helping the poorest countries adapt to climate change, we need to work closely on coordinating our efforts in the recipient countries so as to maximise the effectiveness and impact of our aid and avoid duplication of effort.on security: recognising that fundamental rights and the security of citizens are complementary and mutually reinforcing; we need to ensure that there is a good balance between the two in all of our work.
we must see - before the eu-us summit and now that the g20 summit is underway - that on many issues - economic, but also on peace and environmental protection - only a common european response has a chance of being realised on a global scale.
but together, the europeans and americans, who still account for 60 percent of the world's gross domestic product, have a chance to set those standards, to respond more positively to the challenges of terrorism, to the issues of iran and the middle east, to climate change and many other things.
and i also share and support the two aspects you have mentioned, commissioner, both bilateral cooperation, for example with regard to the standardisation and regulation of low carbon technologies, but also the strategic component beyond that.
it is regrettable that climate policy will not play a role at this one and a half hour summit in portugal.
the focus on development policy is positive, and it would be good if we looked at it from a european perspective, with a focus on the millennium development goals and a focus on climate policy, not just any cooperation, but also qualified cooperation.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly.
and then there is the ecological crisis, which is probably the deepest.
we are determined to meet these challenges by returning to the path of strong, sustainable and equitable growth with business.
more generally, we want to make the whole regulatory and tax environment for businesses more fluid, as well as access to the necessary finance to support their investments.
these include the creation of a fully functioning internal energy market to ensure affordable energy, which is particularly important for europe's economic and industrial location, then a european professional card and a european qualifications passport to facilitate mobility within the european union, which will be increasingly important in the future to maintain europe's competitiveness in a globalised world, and the strengthening of e-commerce through better management of copyright and new guidelines for the effective implementation of the services directive to create new jobs.
i was very pleased to read that the european commission has responded to many of the calls made in the september 2010 innovation report, which was adopted by the committee on industry, research and energy.
just as the eu and the osce need each other in this area, so do the issues of climate change and energy demand increased structured cooperation.
we have had funds available which should be invested, including in the energy sector.
it has been relatively quick to present us with a proposal to ensure that the funds that would otherwise have been lost can be used for the energy sector.
last but not least, we have managed in the end - with the help of the council, too, to be honest - to find a compromise to secure all the funds for the energy sector, almost to the last euro, in the time needed to ensure that the funds do not run out.
it is not possible that agriculture in europe should be confronted daily with new production rules down to the last detail, with farmers having to pass one expert certification after another and with high animal welfare and environmental protection standards being observed.
i am therefore grateful to all the 534 members who agreed in strasbourg that agricultural imports must in future comply with european standards for consumer protection, animal welfare and environmental protection.
this applies not only to fiscal and budgetary policy but also to environmental, resource and climate protection.
as a member of parliament from saxony, a region heavily affected by demographic change, and as a member of the committee on industry, research and energy and rapporteur for the own-initiative report on the future of eu innovation policy, we must of course continue to fight demographic change at eu level and above all at member state level, and make regions more attractive to young people, in particular by increasing economic growth and job creation and by adopting appropriate education policies.
the motion for a resolution tabled by the committee on agriculture contains many such good proposals to improve the situation of livestock farms in a lasting and sustainable way.
it is important that we create the conditions for the european economy to grow in a sustainable way and that we are able to take better care of employment.
that is what this is about: sustainable growth and employment in the european economy.
i hope our commissioner will find his voice again, because we need his voice at the climate conference in cancún.
the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment.
we want to keep cadmium out of the environment, but these panels are putting 100,000 tons of cadmium into the environment.
this seems to be the case in the renewable energy economy.
it's hard to imagine that we can just snap our fingers and take them out of the scope of this law completely, free to go along with the motto: for climate protection and renewable energy goals, we have to buy into the poisons in our environment.
i just hope that we don't repeat this in the electronic waste - the decision is here - in this form, because it would be even more glaring there.
after all, we dump many millions of tons of toxic e-waste every year.
the open scope now covers many new product groups, including, for example, renewable energy technologies.
that is why i have again voted in favour of the exception of renewable energies.
i would have thought it counterproductive to include renewable energy in this directive.
the revised directive was intended to contribute to improving consumer and environmental protection.
i believe we have done this because we have set a realistic framework, one that is based on real risks to consumers and the environment and gives businesses legal certainty for investment and innovation.
we can certainly do a lot with it for the environment, consumers and innovation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the pollution of the environment.
the second argument that is made is the question of sustainability.
now we're all in favor of it, and we also know that coal is naturally associated with a lot of co2 emissions.
secondly, i would like to explain why we consider it necessary in our proposal to have a plan for the mitigation of environmental effects.
our regulation proposes a plan to reduce the environmental impact of coal use in order to compensate for the negative effects of the aid.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
coal is part of the energy supply, that's indisputable.
the only argument that was raised, and which also contradicted the impact of the commission, which initially seemed to be also for 2018, was the argument that climate policy reasons could play a role here.
i would like to emphasize this point again: the climate is not affected by the burning of coal from other countries or from our own coal.
economic, regional, social and energy policy reasons led to this proposal.
i cannot understand why the commission's college has been pushing climate policy reasons that are not relevant at all.
the climate balance remains largely the same.
that is why we need a broad vote today - at least as far as our position is concerned - if coal is to remain competitive in the future as one of the most important sources of energy available to us in europe.
the second area is that the regulation as a whole is to expire in 2030. this is also the state of the discussions in the council on this regulation, and only if parliament takes a clear decision in favour of 2018 will we properly assess the social, political, energy, economic and regional reasons.
these are not expenditure on sustainable, competitive and therefore future employment.
competition will not be affected because coal-fired power stations will continue to run on imported coal, which will worsen the environmental balance.
whether that is sensible is another question, whether that is sensible from the point of view of energy policy, whether that is sensible from the point of view of technology policy.
the ecb acted and responded effectively to the crisis in 2009. with her independence and determination, she created the conditions for a lasting climate of trust.
a minimum quantity of coal contributes to energy security and prevents dependence on imports.
the claim that an end to the financial support of coal serves the protection of the environment is false.
it makes no difference to the climate whether domestic or foreign raw materials are used.
it must remain committed to the environmentally friendly coal technology and to a secure energy supply from domestic products.
we believe that the priorities are wrong, that too little attention is paid to bridging the ecological and social wealth gap.
we shall then try to find a solution with the member states to such projects, so that they can be financially sustainable or reasonably planned.
i am not satisfied with the way in which what was defined in the europe 2020 strategy as sustainable, fair and green growth is reflected in this work programme.
in particular, we should, in our own interests, assess the strategic value of the eastern partnership much more closely and therefore focus on aspects other than energy.
it should be an impetus to prepare workers in europe for the ecological change.
and above all, after we as parliament had already developed a number of ideas in our resolution on green jobs, we expected the commission to take these ideas up, develop them further and then propose concrete measures on how the ecological change could create new jobs or qualify existing jobs so that they would be preserved, and in this way greenize european industrial society for the benefit of workers.
all i can say is that you are mistaken if you think that a knowledge-based sustainable economy can be built on insecurity and poor working conditions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
the key to a sustainable and efficient policy is that it places more emphasis on advice than on punishment.
bees play a vital role in our ecosystem.
firstly, they are important for the conservation of biodiversity, and secondly, biodiversity is important for the conservation of beehives, not only because this year is dedicated to biodiversity, but also because they contribute to our own survival.
it is not just economic interests that are at stake, but also labour, environmental, health and social standards.
in particular, in the field of renewable energy, photovoltaic modules which are partly composed of cadmium telluride compounds are not covered by this directive.
excluding this decisive ‘clean’ technology from environmental legislation will send the wrong signal, eu-wide and globally.
this is about setting the right regulatory framework for coherent sustainable investments!
i do not see any need, therefore, to cover our roofs and fields with potentially hazardous waste, shifting the disposal challenge to future generations.
the report is a good one, taking into account most of the concerns of industry and environmental protection in a balanced way.
i am very grateful to her for pointing out the importance of the energy mix and the responsibility of the member states, who then decide for themselves what they want.
we will not dictate to them, there is only one perspective and that is renewable energy.
the perspective is called renewable energy, coal, oil, gas, nuclear energy, and it's also called nuclear fusion.
last but not least, we cannot just sit back and wait and then be surprised when energy prices become so high that citizens can no longer afford them.
is it ambitious or irresponsible to just go ahead and raise the cost and then complain about energy poverty among citizens?
we are aware that negotiations on the establishment of an ambitious framework to combat climate change beyond 2012 are progressing very slowly.
in this context, ladies and gentlemen, the environment council and the european council have finalized the position of the european union, particularly for the cancún conference.
the framework must be ambitious and effective, environmental integrity must be guaranteed and progress must be made in reforming current market mechanisms and in introducing new ones.
here i would say that, seen from a european perspective, it is clear that we will insist on the need to anchor mitigation pledges, set up an enhanced mrv system and promote the carbon markets.
the conditions attached to a possible second commitment period are very important for environmental integrity and the ambition of the future climate regime.
but i must also say that, no matter what comes out of cancún, i think it is crucial for us after cancún to continue to have an intelligent climate policy with ambitious targets, whilst at the same time handling our energy challenges, as you have just been discussing.
so we should be doing climate change for our own good.
the cancún climate conference must put constructive pressure on states to move international cooperation and national legislation forward on climate protection.
as part of an alliance of responsibility, the eu must demonstrate political leadership independent of the us and be measured against the principle of climate justice.
we need to raise more money for climate finance.
the eu must offer ambitious targets for reducing greenhouse gases.
it creates jobs, it's sustainable.
the aim is to support, together with our african partners, structural policies that promote sustainable growth and climate protection in order to get out of the poverty trap.
one is a more simple issue: that achieving the millennium development goals (mdgs) should be done in a sustainable way through inclusive growth.
that is why we address the issue of energy.
that is why much focus is placed on sustainable agriculture, because without it our results in achieving mdgs and fighting poverty and providing more stability will be under threat.
sustainability is also to the fore in our policy.
no eu money is involved in any project that damages the environment.
each project is evaluated on the basis of an environmental impact assessment.
we have a very sustainable approach to the projects.
but at the same time it is very clear that we cannot expect that a continent that will double its population in a very short time will not have an impact on the environment.
and again, our role now in the current situation is really to look for sustainable growth; and renewable energy is the key to providing such a type of growth.
agreements with the imf have been concluded and major reforms have been launched in the key energy sector.
such a process should aim at establishing a sustainable system of balance of power, which would be in line with european standards.
the commission is closely following these recent developments and a change for the better is also one of the conditions for disbursement of our budget support in the energy sector.
written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the joint debate on international trade on the report by mr tokia saïfi, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on human rights, social and environmental standards in international trade agreements (2009/2219 (ini)) (a7-0312/2010), the report by mr yannick jadot, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on international trade policy in the face of the challenges of climate change (2010/2103 (ini)) (a7-0310/2010) and the report by mr harlem désir, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on corporate social responsibility in international trade agreements (2009/2201 (ini)) (a7-0317/2001).
with mr désir, on the subject of enterprises, with mrs saïfi, on the subject of human rights and environmental standards, with mr jadot, on the subject of climate change - everywhere we have been very attentive to the contribution that trade policy can make to these policy areas.
so are we committing environmental politicians, are we committing social politicians, are we committing the other policy areas strongly enough to do their homework in their areas?
but i sometimes worry that we are overburdening trade policy when it is increasingly the case that other policy areas are not doing their homework, that in the area of climate policy, for example, environmental politicians in copenhagen are failing to find a solution.
climate change, environmental protection, protection of human dignity, the global eradication of poverty are recognized and acknowledged as a common task of humanity.
the sustainable, uninterrupted supply of raw materials and energy, as you call it in your concept, commissioner, requires that we take up these aspects of the three reports.
we ask you to broaden the definition of production costs and to enforce it multilaterally, because social dumping and environmental dumping - as my colleagues have already pointed out - also reduce production costs.
- i voted against the motion for a resolution on the cop16 climate conference in cancún today because i feel committed to climate action, but also to realistic climate action, combining sustainability and economic development.
if we had followed this call, we would have had to go to zero emissions in the next ten years, and we would have had to go to zero emissions sooner or later.
the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
i also think that it is necessary to make more conditional and to direct the funding towards the key european projects, whether in the transport sector, the energy sector, regional and urban development, research and innovation.
we are aware of the sensitivity of the issue with regard to the environment and from other points of view, so we will be following it with great care.
and it was also very important to me that we put more resources into getting energy efficiency in our buildings.
so this is also about environmental responsibility.
from a green point of view, it is good that there is no money for the iter fusion reactor now, because we do not think that this is the right priority at this time and from an ecological point of view we think that more money should be spent on renewable energy and ecological conversion, but not on such a project whose success is not guaranteed.
if we want to be strong as the european union with new products, which hopefully are also sustainable, with new production methods which are ecologically responsible, with energy production which is really based on renewable sources of energy, which was now set as a goal once again in cancún, then we also need the appropriate means and for that we need the european budget which reflects our common interests.
the positive mood must now be used to give new impetus to climate policy in europe and also in the european union.
i would like to make just three points: it was very right that parliament in its resolution called for us to increase our ambition and achieve a 30% reduction in co2 emissions by 2020, and i hope that the commission and the council will take decisions on this in the spring.
second, we have the green climate fund.
the hot air must be removed from the eu's climate balance.
my last sentence: after the climate conference is before the climate conference.
two negotiating chapters were opened during this reporting period – environment and food safety – adding to a total of 13 chapters that are currently open.
important progress has been made on energy security with the ratification of the intergovernmental agreement on nabucco, and on cooperation in the aviation sector with initialisation of the eu-turkey horizontal aviation agreement.
the main objective of the cross-border cooperation programmes is to support the development of a common socio-economic environment for people, communities and economies, including the delivery of technical assistance.
this allocation of funds is used for providing grants to small joint projects proposed by local stakeholders in a variety of sectors such as the economy, culture, tourism, environment and social issues.
i would like to begin by thanking the committees on the environment, public health and food safety, industry, research and energy and regional development for their intensive consultation and for their report today.
if we balance the three 20% targets we have set for ourselves - co2, renewable energy in the energy mix and more energy efficiency - we are on track with co2, we are on track with renewable energy, and we are at the beginning of efficiency.
that is to say, we have a target - parliament, the council, all the european institutions - but the trend, especially after the crisis, is not towards 20% more energy efficiency, but a maximum of 8, 9, 10% would be achievable in ten years, as things stand today.
secondly, i am not entirely happy with the term energy efficiency, because nobody understands it but us.
if you ask your neighbors, your friends, energy conservation is common knowledge, energy efficiency is something academic.
we have a total energy balance for 2005, supplemented by 2007 because of the inclusion of romania and bulgaria, which is the base year.
then - and this was before my time - all the decisions speak of a normal perspective, that is, of an upward trend in energy demand, and of this again minus 20%.
i ask myself, do we have an increasing demand for energy without energy efficiency at all?
for example, some of the founding members of the european union are reporting a significant increase in energy demand by 2020 without efficiency.
we may have to finance less paving for marketplaces and less bypass roads, but we have to co-finance more energy efficiency.
that's why we need more energy efficiency in transport.
thirdly, industry, and fourthly, the energy sector.
we asked this question at the informal lunch at the energy council a few weeks ago.
i can tell you that the member states and the energy ministers are very much involved in energy efficiency, but they are not yet ready to adopt binding targets.
we have to face enormous discussions about concretisation in the sectors of industry, energy, transport, housing and in the member states.
i shall be addressing the european council on 4 february to see once again how serious the governments are about this and then i shall come back to you with a concrete proposal for a new energy efficiency plan.
we expect national annual energy efficiency action plans, we say what we expect year by year in the achievement of the target, but we do not wait until 2020 but we switch to binding if necessary after two years, when we notice that in the first two years the voluntary phase does not bring progress towards 20% in the member states.
first of all, a correction: the german translation said that i was the chairman of the environment committee, which is not true.
it has presented an ambitious strategy on energy efficiency in the european union.
energy efficiency is the most cost-effective way to reduce emissions and reduce our dependence on energy imports.
the committee on the environment adopted a comprehensive opinion.
but i would like to emphasize two points again: firstly, we have talked about this, commissioner, and we are encouraging the european union to set itself a long-term target for energy efficiency.
i think we should be guided by the amount of energy we use, which is measurable, we have data on that.
we agree that energy efficiency, using energy sparingly, is the solution, the simplest and most sensible.
or why and where has energy been used more efficiently?
i'm learning that industries that use a lot of energy are more energy-efficient because it saves money and because it's convenient for them.
i'm learning that if people know that this device is going to use more energy or less energy, so if they see that and can see an advantage for themselves, they'll choose to use it.
secondly, the commissioner has just made it very clear and very strongly clear how complicated the very definition of the term energy efficiency is.
i think we need to break away from the debate of the past in energy policy, which believes that we can achieve something with simple figures, with binding targets and with miracle solutions.
energy efficiency has always been the greatest resource we have been offered, it is the dormant giant, it holds the huge potential for the european energy economy.
here in the field of energy efficiency we could finally create a european added value that we use in an innovative way, that we use for energy efficiency, which we have not done in the past.
i think it is good, commissioner oettinger, that you have emphasized that you want to use these funds more for this instrument of energy efficiency.
this is the only way to achieve real cohesion, at least in the energy sector.
we should therefore make sure that we pursue energy efficiency on a global scale, that we keep this objective in mind, but without running ideological campaigns that end up making citizens not like the eu as much.
of course, energy efficiency is a very important issue, and of course, you have to be very conservative with fossil fuels.
because without acceptance by the public, we're not going to make any progress on climate change.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
this is a signal that europe is serious about cutting red tape and that we are willing to create the conditions for sustainable economic growth.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new substances.
the limit values for the so-called pahs, the carcinogens, are too high, according to the study by scher, the scientific committee on health and environmental risks.
we are also still waiting for the promised limits on noise pollution from children's toys.
assistance provided to a euro-area member state should be based on a rigorous programme of economic and fiscal assessment and a thorough analysis of debt sustainability conducted by the commission together with the imf, and in liaison with the european central bank.
in my area of environmental policy, i can think of many issues that could be put on the european union's agenda with this instrument, especially the commission's agenda as a european government, as an executive.
since 2006, the enterprise dg has been in charge, since csr initiatives are contributions by companies to a sustainable society as part of their business activities.
the role of politics is therefore to ensure a fair and secure trading environment so that consumers can participate in the market on an equal footing.
in principle, the approach of the report on the energy efficiency action plan to energy saving is welcome.
however, i think that the way to set binding energy efficiency targets 'from the top' and to set binding modernisation and repair targets for private and public buildings (e.g.
even the european commission, whose buildings would also be affected by new efficiency criteria, recently had to admit that additional requirements for the energy renovation of its building stock could not be met.
in particular, i think that the requirement to apply energy efficiency criteria to public procurement is something to be criticized.
the right way to save energy is through education and tax incentives.
in particular, the demands on local and regional authorities and private homeowners to renovate buildings in the energy sector are being ignored in view of the financial situation of the respondents.
even the eu commission had to admit that large-scale energy-efficiency requirements for its building stock were not being met.
the claim that energy renovations lead to direct cost savings has also been proved wrong in practice.
the cost of energy supplies is rising faster, not least through investment in infrastructure construction and maintenance and renewable energy measures, than it is being held back by energy efficiency measures.
the current eu energy efficiency directive, adopted in 2002, has been implemented in very different ways in different member states, so that there is no consistency across europe.
i am very much in favour of a broad consensus-based debate on energy efficiency at all political levels and with all relevant actors and for the creation of incentive schemes.
i welcome the fact that, unlike many national parliaments, this report sends a clear signal that the end of the war and a substantial change in policy are necessary for the sustainable political, economic and democratic development of afghanistan.
we are also giving farmers funds, we are giving them public support, because we have stricter rules on the protection of the environment and animal welfare.