mr president, there was a lot of talk at cop15 about the so-called climate refugees.
the fact is that climate change and its immediate consequences for people and the environment is a problem we are forced to address.
while we in the west are discussing wind energy, electric cars and solar energy and biofuels and new forms of waste sorting in europe's suburbs, many islands are disappearing quite slowly.
so i ask: should the western world invest billions in climate technology whose effect is highly questionable, while millions of people can be helped by more familiar and cost-conscious measures?
instead of arguing about statistics, evidence and research, we must now combat the consequences of climate change on a global scale with concrete action.
i would like to ask the climate sceptics in this chamber: if nine out of ten doctors told you that they were more than 90 per cent sure that you were seriously ill, but that they had some medicine that could cure the disease, some medicine with no side effects, would you not take that medicine?
similarly, of course, the world should react when over ninety percent of the world's leading scientists in the field say that global warming is real and that it is man-made.
that is to say, go from the 20 to the 30 percent reductions promised by the year 2020. secondly, we should put the amount of funding we are willing to offer into the long-term financing of adaptation to climate change that we know is coming.
we are thinking short-sightedly and not about the necessary biodiversity of the planet.
this is not only good for the environment but also for the preservation of local jobs.
it is also good that the green paper emphasizes sustainable aquaculture, so that we can avoid fishing the oceans thinly off the coasts of third countries.
the same day, fresh fish are delivered, the fish are sold at a good price, and this is good for the environment and fish stocks.
the subject we are dealing with today, with an additional protocol, will enable the eu countries to fight together against pollution in the atlantic.
each of these agreements covers different parts of the sea around the eu countries and aims at individual and/or collective action by the parties to the agreement in the event of pollution or threat of pollution of the seas or coasts.
i will not hide the fact that i very much hope that this additional protocol will make it possible to combat a wide range of pollution in the atlantic.
the marine environment will not be restored in those years, but it only underlines the importance of not prolonging the process any further.
− madam president, first to mr leinen, i think it is a very good idea that, whenever delegations do go out, you have the time and priority also to get climate on the agenda.
i think that c40 and lots of other initiatives are very good, and you are also right that much of the emissions will be related to cities and lifestyle in the cities.
there is the issue of climate change, where the arctic is being hit hard by global warming.
i am naturally sympathetic to the idea of protecting the environment in the arctic, just as i, as a dane, am acutely aware of the geopolitical situation.
the eu must take responsibility for global warming, which is particularly evident in the form of temperature increases.
we also know that climate change will give us easier access to resources such as oil and gas and to new transport routes from europe to asia.
on the one hand, this can be a positive thing, but on the other hand we must ensure that we establish safeguards which take full account of the very specific climate and the fragile environment of the arctic.
without the 59 billion euros now being invested in good energy projects, we will not reach our 20% renewable energy target by 2020. two thirds of the funds in the set plan are investments in real and sustainable renewable energy.
but the set plan is not only important and right because it ensures cleaner energy.
with these massive investments in modern energy technology, we will be able to create hundreds of thousands of new green jobs.
we will also be able to make the eu a centre of knowledge in the field of green and sustainable technology.
a responsibility to ensure that the many people currently working in the energy sector have the opportunity to be re-trained and up-skill.
− i fully recognise and support the un objectives on nuclear disarmament, gender mainstreaming, poverty reduction, the mdgs, and the important role of the un in promoting human rights and combating climate change.
it is naive to expect all the world's maritime nations to follow the eu's high environmental standards.
in all coastal waters, to avoid environmental disasters, dumping should be made compulsory by law.
we need a forward-looking strategy: better instruments in space to predict atmospheric changes, development of aircraft engines that use fuel much more efficiently and are less sensitive.
airplanes are highly energy-intensive and polluting.
the northwest passage is ideal for saving time, money and fuel and for serving the environment.
this is not correct; the high interest rates from the greek government are not due to monetary policy factors but rather to high risk premiums related to market concerns about debt sustainability.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
the european parliament has voted in favour of the report, which calls for the commission to take action to combat climate change.
we support an ambitious agricultural policy that equips the european agricultural sector to withstand climate change, but we do not support the allocation of new money to the european agricultural policy.
we must be able to follow up the 2020 growth strategy, we must be able to invest in joint energy projects, we must be able to invest in joint transport projects, we must be able to invest in young people and research, and we must be able to finance a strong and joint foreign service.
the current european rail network needs to be improved and coordinated, with due regard for both the congested road network and the environment.
thirdly, we will ensure a good working environment for all.
− mr davies, your question raises the important issue of the effectiveness of european union diplomacy in international environmental negotiations, against the background of the disappointing results of the meetings in copenhagen on climate change and in doha on trade in endangered species.
nonetheless, both for the cites and the climate change negotiations, this did not prevent the eu from agreeing on a common line and carrying out a range of outreach activities towards its international partners.
with respect to the climate change negotiations, the eu’s internal debate in the context of copenhagen was not excessive and the eu has significantly improved the coordination of its diplomatic sources across the world.
the implementation of the lisbon treaty will notably reinforce the eu external representation in international environmental affairs.
what is at stake is the future of the eu organisation and efficiency in global environment negotiations, and the commission counts on the support of parliament on this issue.
concerning the general question of the cumulative effects of chemicals, the commission recently made available through the internet a state-of-the-art report on mixture toxicity which was the result of the two-year study funded by dg environment.
the commission is now engaged in consulting stakeholders on this report and has also submitted a formal request concerning mixture toxicity to the scientific committee on health and environmental risks, the scientific committee on emerging and newly identified risks and the scientific committee on consumer products.
i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs on the committee on industry, research and energy for their constructive support and i would like to acknowledge the supportive opinion of the european parliament’s committee on the environment, public health and food safety concerning the bonus programme.
eight of the nine states bordering the baltic sea are members of the european union, and we are all aware of the very complex and pressing environmental problems currently being faced in the baltic sea, which were outlined very eloquently by ms ek a few moments ago.
science has a very important role to play in supporting public policy in the research and environmental sectors.
it is clear that no individual baltic sea state acting alone can be successful in solving the complex environmental issues in this area.
to tackle the environmental problems in the baltic sea it is now a matter of urgency to develop a strategic and integrated research strategy for the region, enable cross-border synergies, pool resources, share knowledge and enhance the cross-border mobility of researchers.
this is how we can ensure a sustainable future for the baltic sea region.
to come back to this current initiative, the european commission has every confidence that the bonus programme will be in a position to optimise the potential of environmental research programmes in the baltic sea region, enhance the scientific capacity of the area, facilitate cross-border mobility of researchers, promote synergies and avoid wasteful duplication of research efforts.
this will secure a sustainable future for the baltic sea.
having regard to the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, - mr president, i have to say something.
bonus-169 is an important pilot project and involves cooperation on environmental problems in a given area.
the programme should also cover non-eu countries which discharge their waste water and thus pollute the baltic sea, which is considered to be one of the most polluted seas in the world.
the bonus programme has a tremendous task to do in clarifying all the many environmental problems in the baltic sea.
the baltic sea is threatened by pollution of all kinds, from paper mills and the like, and by collapsing fish stocks, and by unexploded mustard gas bombs and russian gas pipelines, which do not contribute to the well-being of the ecosystem.
but it must not stand alone, it must be accompanied by the environmental awareness and action of the national states and also by financial resources.
aquaculture is a major polluter and destroyer of our rivers' biodiversity.
we in europe can create the framework for a responsible, sustainable, productive and animal-friendly aquaculture.
we would have liked to see higher environmental, climate and sustainability requirements in the disbursement of aid than the unambitious requirements that exist today.
free and fair trade must be the guiding principle of an agricultural area based on sustainability.
the report focuses on modernising and improving the efficiency of agriculture and ensuring environmental and animal welfare improvements, agriculture's contribution to energy and climate policy, and simplified rules for the agricultural sector.
the proposal also calls for campaigns to promote the environmental impact of agriculture.
it is sad that we are faced today with a report on biodiversity which points out that we must take care of our planet.
but since we are clearly unable to take care of land, water, mountains, plants and animals on our own, we now have a thorough and comprehensive report that takes a critical look at the daily loss of biodiversity.
i therefore agree with the rapporteur that the common fisheries policy must safeguard biodiversity.
here too, the conservation of biodiversity must be considered as a natural part of the profession.
the most important thing for us social democrats has been - and we will not compromise - the environment and health.
almost every day, new research comes out showing that the overall chemical pressures to which we humans and our environment are exposed are increasing.
however, with this report we must now find a legislative balance between running a competitive business in a sensible way, while at the same time giving priority to the safety of citizens and the environment.
i miss that the safety of both people and the environment is more in focus.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
and i must say that the council and the commission's reluctance to make the necessary revision of the financial framework is in sharp contrast to the fact that you are constantly coming up with new proposals and demanding new resources, as for example with the banana agreement and now for fusion for the iter energy project.
biodiversity is the context of all things simply put.
from modern agriculture, fishing, urban development, road networks and transport to a diverse industry, everything is having a negative impact on the planet's biodiversity.
the baltic sea is experiencing a historically high level of pollution.
the eu countries have taken steps to improve the environment, but what about the rest of the world?
the world's biodiversity will be lost as a result of human activities - whether global warming occurs or not.
biodiversity is best served by remaining realistic.
i think it is a waste of money for denmark to send money to the eu, only to have it sent back to denmark after a tour of the bureaucracy.
i think it is a waste of money for denmark to send money to the eu, only to have it sent back to denmark after a tour of the bureaucracy.
otherwise we cannot get enough funds for research, energy and aid to palestine.
in particular, we have had to cut the allocation for the iter fusion energy project and for the common foreign and security policy and for aid to banana-producing countries and cooperation with newly industrialized countries.
we have done so, even though the remarks contain a phrase that the eu should move towards a 'low carbon economy'.
we are aware that the proponents of nuclear power are trying to use this term to hide the fact that we are talking about an economy in which nuclear power plays a prominent role as an energy source.
i am, like her, a strong supporter of coherence between policy areas, interdisciplinary research programmes and new challenges, but most of all i am concerned with the problems of pollution of our gardens.
it is within the context of reforming the single market that we have the real opportunity to transform europe into a more social and sustainable union, so the question is: does this communication manage to point towards a more green and socially just internal market?
we could not have started energy projects as part of the recovery plan - for example, linking the baltic countries' electricity grids to the nordic ones, or linking the gas grids in bulgaria to those in western europe, so that russia could no longer shut off the heat - if we had not found the money for this in the agricultural budget.
ten years ago china did not produce one single windmill; today china houses one of the world’s top ten wind-energy companies.
in this light, i am sorry to say, the commission’s new energy strategy is discouraging in its lack of ambition for a greener future.
we need an ambitious energy strategy for europe, not only in a cop-16 resolution that nobody reads anyway.
for an energy strategy to deliver on climate, on growth, on jobs, we need a much more ambitious and market-based approach so that we can use the market mechanism to our advantage.
the carbon market, the main mechanism for our co2 reductions and green investments, does not work.
we believe that the eu needs to make this move for the sake of our economic growth, climate and energy security.
there is no doubt that there is a growing need for a new energy strategy for europe, including in european companies.
the energy strategy has become both a part of europe's foreign and security policy and a question of security of supply.
massive investments are needed in the future to achieve a full and coherent internal market - as well as massive investments in energy efficiency.
and energy efficiency is the cheapest way to reduce co2 emissions.
i would like to thank commissioner öettinger today for his remarks on energy efficiency.
as far as energy efficiency is concerned - whether the targets are binding or not - i welcome the commission's communication, which identifies a number of areas where we can do more.
i am also open to giving the commission more power to reject the national action plans if they are not sufficient to reach our 20% target by 2020. in addition, the us and china are investing heavily in energy efficiency.
everyone is aware that the price of energy will rise in the future and europe is currently suffering from a lack of competitiveness in a globalised world.
that is why we need to make our companies more competitive by making good investments in energy efficiency, infrastructure, smart grids and more.
when we go to the climate summit, there is one important thing we must remember to take in our luggage.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in a manner that would be contrary to the interests of the community.
this is the precondition for us to be pioneers and not only to create an evolution in the field of the environment, but also to ensure that we become competitive in the field of green environmental technology.
in this way we will safeguard jobs, the economy and the environment at the same time and find simultaneous answers to the major challenges facing europe.
i am naturally pleased that parliament has adopted a resolution which provides a negotiating position in support of our climate change commissioner who is going to cancun to negotiate.
we have secured the necessary funds for research, energy and education, and in the foreign policy field we have found the money for palestine and the banana-producing countries without cutting other programmes.
we have still not solved the problem of financing the iter fusion energy project for the coming years, as has been mentioned on several pages.
if we are to continue to live up to the ambitions set out in the eu's energy policy, we will also face difficult budgetary negotiations in the coming years unless we get an agreement that ensures greater flexibility.
but of course the whole climate conference was about the trade in hot air and the creation of a fund for the third world countries.
i would have liked to see the conference also address the limitation of the consumption of basic resources, the necessity of biodiversity for the natural regulation of the climate and population growth - a subject to which all the world's politicians turn a blind eye.
how do we feed them without increasing co2 emissions and without upsetting the balance of nature and the climate of the planet?
similarly, the rumours about the un climate process have fortunately proved to be greatly exaggerated.
the climate process is alive.
the commission is not the eu's target of 20% energy efficiency by 2020 could become a new lisbon target.
we must focus on energy efficiency for economic, business, environmental and social reasons.
the increased focus on energy efficiency means, first of all, that we consume less energy.
energy efficiency also has the side benefit of providing jobs for europe's small and medium-sized enterprises.
the three main pillars i see in the eu's energy efficiency policy are the national action plans, product policy and buildings.
in some countries, the potential for energy savings in buildings is thus greater than in others, while others are likely to focus on increased energy savings at the production level.
buildings are at the heart of energy and climate policy, and 40% of our energy consumption comes from our buildings.
the report therefore recommends a financial instrument to target investment in projects relating to energy efficiency.
we have reached agreement on many areas - not least the ambition to reap the low-hanging fruit of boosting energy efficiency.
we are not in agreement on setting ambitious and binding targets for energy efficiency.
it is absolutely essential to me that we set ourselves a target of at least 20% energy efficiency.
this will be the way forward to a green and sustainable economy, which can create a million new jobs in europe.
but it is absolutely essential that these energy efficiency improvements become binding on the member states, since we can see how the eu has recommendations and objectives in a wide range of areas that never become reality because they are not binding.
we know that this is clearly the cheapest way of reducing co2 emissions, guaranteeing security of supply and at the same time guaranteeing consumers a lower heating bill - and in fact lower heating bill costs - and that this will be a step forward for the many europeans who are affected by what we might call energy poverty.
energy poverty affects people when a relatively large part of their income is spent on heating their homes.
today, there are neither common definitions of energy poverty nor the right policy measures to reduce it.
the consequences of energy poverty are fatal.
we must therefore offer cheap loans for investments in energy efficiency in private homes and we must also use the structural funds for this purpose.
i look forward to the vote tomorrow and hope that we can get a large majority behind the report and a stronger effort to combat energy poverty.
if people are sitting and listening to this, it might sound like there's a lot of disagreement about energy efficiency.
binding targets or not, energy efficiency is something we have to deal with.
it is important that we do something about urban development, buildings, the use of new energy technologies and a better product policy.
transport is also something we have to deal with, and last but not least it is important to have many of these energy measures financed in the future.
from my seat there are still plenty of low-hanging fruit that we have the opportunity to pick down - that is, opportunities to increase energy efficiency in europe.
what is important, however, is that, having come this far, a clear signal is sent from this parliament to the commission as to the way forward for energy efficiency in the future.
last week a lot of people travelled a long way to cancún, but they did not move far in the fight against climate change.
with today’s votes on energy efficiency, we actually took a step forward.
as this report rightly points out, energy efficiency is the most cost-effective and fastest way to reduce co2 emissions.
on the basis of our current efforts, we will only make it half way to 20% by 2020. that is why we need the binding target on energy efficiency.