in this context it is essential not only to send humanitarian aid but also to ensure that, when haiti is no longer covered, the effort continues and that haiti develops in a sustainable, coordinated and balanced way.
it is the only sustainable way forward.
one of them, the one on climate change, makes me think that the european policy launched by the commission, even though it failed in copenhagen, is the right one, because the important thing is that the waste of so many nations must end, because billions of people on the planet do not have to put up with the selfishness of rich societies.
if rights are our soul - the european soul - i dare to remind you to put all the emphasis you have rightly put in your speech on the fact that the backbone of europe is a common energy policy.
we need to devote much more time, much more political energy, much more political momentum to this, so that the europeans understand us.
but, in addition, he is right about the content, and he has referred to the importance of the 20-20 strategy, which recognises that the lisbon strategy has not worked and that we are therefore neither happy nor satisfied and that we must focus on more innovation and better energy.
i would like nothing more, i promise you, than to be able to congratulate you in six months' time for having put in place measures to get us out of the crisis - which means, in effect, greater and better economic governance - and for having also reoriented the european union from a social, ecological and democratic point of view.
in addition, to tackle a real tax reform, which includes european resources for social policy and which clearly has a green, ecological dimension, it must be made very clear that those who pollute must pay, and that those who act fraudulently and irresponsibly must also pay, whether they are banks, multinationals or tax evaders.
but i also see a timidity in their proposals and too many concessions to those who so brazenly mortgage our present and our social and environmental future.
today, at the beginning of 2010, we are not where we would have liked to be in the fight against climate change.
we regret that there has been a reduction in ambition in the fight against climate change, that a binding agreement has not been signed and that there has been a lack of transparency in the procedure.
we must not forget that the sum of all these countries represents three quarters of the co2 emissions and we must not forget that many of them were outside kyoto until now.
but mostly, i worry that when we've been to other countries, they don't talk about climate change.
the scenario that we're going to move into in mexico, the scenario that we've moved into, is a growing population, a lack of food, the need for more agriculture, limited resources of soil and water, and any decision that we make about climate change has to be placed in this context.
so we need to have a systemic view, something that is missing in the analysis of climate change.
climate change is not solved by the emissions problem alone.
finally, the issue that concerns me: adaptation is done on the ground and we must do it again with a new strategic vision of the land, including productivity, strategic reforestation, regions, zones and districts dedicated to agro-energy, and of course water and biodiversity.
i do not think that the summit was a failure, much less something that those who confuse climate with weather say: that the fact that it snowed in the north is very normal, but it is not normal that it snows in seville and that it is 4o in cuba, which confirms that, indeed, there are effects of climate change.
the leading position we hold, madam minister, is needed by the climate, by the european union and by humanity.
several far-reaching challenges in climate change remain: consolidating the right support and level of commitment around the copenhagen accord and strengthening each of its elements, developing and refining its content and accelerating its implementation.
this is where the european union must reflect on how to demonstrate its leadership, at international level, in climate policy.
as we have already begun, several of you have spoken of solidarity with third countries, of reducing emissions, of deforestation, of a more efficient and sustainable industry, and many of you have spoken of leadership and unity.
all together, the member states, the environment council, the commission, parliament and, of course, the presidency, we have a role to play.
instead of displacing, we must add and contribute the best of each other in defence of a common future, without forgetting that the environment, development, competitiveness and innovation are common objectives that must go hand in hand.
i take note of your contributions and know that you will always have the spanish government, which holds the rotating presidency of the european union until 30 june, working with you to achieve a more sustainable future for all.
in other words, the copenhagen accord contains references to the level of ambition needed to address climate change for the post-2012 climate agreement and it sets the basis for a financial package and invites serious commitments on emissions reductions.
at the same time, we see the accord as a stepping stone for future major leaps in mexico in future international climate negotiations.
it is my personal view that the new commission will have to define an overall china strategy for the european union to better pursue and achieve our common interests with the view of climate policy, trade tensions and exchange-rate policy.
in the same way, we would expect china to make a serious commitment in the field of climate change policy.
in order to achieve that, we need to invest in innovation and research in resource efficient, environmental and energy technologies, which will be at the heart of the new eu 2020 strategy we are currently preparing.
i agree with mrs dati and mrs grossetête, as well as mrs ek, that this implies that the eu 2020 will have to be a climate industry and a jobs strategy – and thus at the heart of the economic revival of the european union.
i have checked and i can inform you that the use of the eur 300 million allowances for carbon capture and storage should be decided on 2 february in the respective comitology committee.
to conclude, it is our duty for future generations to continue to lead by example and reach a legally binding agreement by the end of this year, ensuring a better and sustainable future for all.
others, with years of developmental delay, see it as a promise of development and a source of wealth, communication and energy.
i agree with them that there is a huge, immediate and urgent need to recover the danube as a waterway for sustainable transport.
there is the marco polo programme, which is still so badly used, or as a unique vector for tourist development, because the landscapes are certainly impressive, or as a source of renewable energy.
we therefore support, without any reservations, the need for this urgent strategy for the danube region, so that europe can be more complete, harmonized and sustainable.
and as regards securing the future of opel europe, we once again call for future projects to be based on real criteria of economic and industrial viability in a european framework which will prevent the recurrence of events such as the present and make the european car industry an innovative, sustainable and future-oriented sector.
the citizens who hear us speak and decide on the cars of the future still want to drive in safer, more comfortable, more sustainable cars, that follow the high european quality standards they were used to.
many of us are hoping that there are little 'green shoots' in your speech, in the promises you made to our group, in the speech by commissioner lászló andor, in the institutional commitment we have to subject future european standards to environmental impact.
we need, mr barroso - because it is smart - that these environmental and social impact studies take account of the sustainability of the economic model you are defending.
and in the face of crisis we cannot respond with more crisis, but with action and with action now: action to ensure the response to climate change, new energy, the globally relevant dimension of our foreign policy and our contribution to a safer world in the fight against crime and against terrorism.
the itre commission is responsible for research, energy and the development of the information society.
three priority issues to overcome the crisis and to renew our production system, which my group, the s&d group, wants to make more competitive and innovative, but also more socially and environmentally sustainable.
the economic recovery will be largely the result of the change in the energy model.
i believe that without jobs, without a sustainable economy, it will be impossible to balance the finances.
and above all, we need to know what they are doing to get their economies back on track, because, as i said before, without sustained growth there will be no sustainable economy or sustainable finance.
mr president, i share the concern about the biological situation of the bluefin tuna stock and agree with the need for effective conservation and management measures which not only prevent its collapse but also ensure the sustainability of fisheries and responsible trade.
in any event, this debate should send a clear message: the european union is fully committed to the sustainability of bluefin tuna and will take the necessary measures to preserve it.
i understand the enormous pressure which environmental ngos are putting on public opinion in general and this house in particular, as is being seen, and that is why my group has decided to support inclusion in appendix ii as a compromise between the environment committee's proposal and those of us who think that fisheries management cannot be taken away from regional fisheries organisations.
i also welcome the recent commitment of this country to nabucco, which is so important for the diversification of europe's energy supply, but i must confess that i was surprised last autumn by a gesture by the turkish government in favour of the iranian authorities.
i also support the measures adopted by the countries of the bolivarian alternative for the americas (financial aid through the humanitarian fund, energy support and the promotion of agricultural initiatives and production plans) which are an example of the fraternal bonds of solidarity between peoples.
- i abstained from the vote on resolution rc-b7-0064/2010 on the outcome of the copenhagen summit on climate change because i consider it a failure, given that the copenhagen agreement is not legally binding and does not set global targets for reducing emissions.
at this summit, developed countries have not acknowledged their climate debt to developing countries, nor have they lamented the dire consequences of market mechanisms (carbon trading).
the european union must, once and for all, take responsibility and do everything possible to reduce co2 emissions by 40% by 2020. i therefore believe that a new economic and social model must be put forward to counter capitalism and i welcome the decision of the president of bolivia, evo morales, to convene the world peoples' conference on climate change and the rights of mother earth.
this would mean the end of traditional and sustainable fishing, when the culprits of resource depletion are the ships of the industrial fishing fleet.
you have been informed, and i will not waste much time in reminding you that this framework agreement is a very important legal instrument for health workers.
firstly, the importance of health and safety at work: creating the healthiest possible working environment is vital for workers, for families, for citizens.
in that respect, the eu underlines the importance of these elections being held in a peaceful, transparent and fully democratic environment.
let me signal as well that, after this fact, there are some specific and local situations that are worrying in terms of the government issuing a decree legalising the export of unprocessed and endangered wood threatening the biodiversity of the country.
(principle of intervention not available for technical reasons) ... if we are talking about the 2020 strategy we are not talking only about the post-lisbon strategy, but about the strategy of the recognition of the failure of lisbon or, to put it more harshly and crudely, of the failure of lisbon; a strategy that was designed to ensure growth and sustainability, but which has not been fulfilled, because it has not been able to ensure sustainability, neither from the financial point of view, nor from the environmental point of view, nor from the social point of view.
from the energy point of view, the unity of european policy has yet to be invented, and from the social point of view, europe is being roamed by the discontent of workers, trade unions and the most disadvantaged classes, concerned about the sustainability of the model that has made us better when it has made us european, precisely the model that has been able to ensure welfare and social cohesion.
a social pact that is able to say clearly that this time europe will bet on financial and environmental sustainability and also on the preservation of the social model that has made us better when it has made us european.
the lesson of the past is that we have had very significant economic growth, but on a speculative basis, on a basis that has not taken into account justice, equity, the environment, the future, future generations.
i hope, therefore, mr president, that next week we will have papers with an ambitious agenda, an agenda that points to sustainability, an agenda that makes economic, social and environmental issues compatible - because they are interdependent.
mr president, sometimes by fires, sometimes by droughts and sometimes by devastating floods like this, the south of the union has become the most obvious and at the same time the most unfortunate scenario to demonstrate the terrible consequences of climate change.
if we had a european observatory, it would clearly show that this is the case and that is why the fight against climate change is so important.
it is true that in the coming years we will have to make this expenditure sustainable and that will mean that we will have to talk seriously about housing policy, the future personnel policy, office equipment.
all this must be seen in the future through sustainability and cost-effectiveness.
we are obliged to define responsibly the guidelines that will guarantee the sustainability of the seas, of fisheries and, ultimately, of the planet itself.
the future reform of the cfp must ensure a sustainable fisheries system and we call for a new management system based on fishing effort.
we must introduce, to a large extent, environmental criteria, the differentiation between bottom fishing and high-altitude fishing.
it is addressing an important part of the reform, from the european union, that will ensure the sustainability of the seas, of fishermen and of part of the world.
the extractive sector and the processing industry are the first stakeholders in the sustainability of fisheries, which is why their involvement in the design of the reform or their participation, as in 2009, in the revision of a control regulation, which should have been drawn up in a more open way, is basic to meet the objectives of the reform: to have a sustainable and profitable sector and to guarantee supply.
regionalization, to take account of the specificities of each area and type of fishing, separating artisanal from industrial; responsibility, giving priority to good practices and efforts to reduce fishing capacity already made; stability, through long-term management plans based on increasingly sound scientific activity; and justice, by revising the sector's cmo and offering inspection and control activities by third countries to encourage sustainable behaviour in the sector.
the reform must be geared towards responsible, sustainable and competitive fishing.
it must emphasise its social dimension, have an ecosystem approach and be integrated into marine policy.
i would remind you of some of these points: the precautionary principle, which is fundamental and essential; capacity reduction, which is absolutely essential; limitation of public subsidy policy; improvement of the control and prosecution of crime, without respite and with clear consequences for those who do wrong and encourage others to do wrong; but at the same time, we must promote sustainable arts and crafts, sustainable fishing, which necessarily implies making progress in defining what we mean by artisanal fishing, which indeed needs greater concreteness.
i understood that the word mentioned most was sustainability, so sustainability is a general agreement, a framework for general agreement.
− this regulation is very important, as it seeks to ensure that the commission has accurate and regular information on investment projects in energy infrastructure, both at national and cross-border level, so that the union can ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and the energy security of all member states.
the aim is to update the 1996 regulation with regard to the union's commitments on security of supply, climate change and renewable energy in the context of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon.
the committee on industry, shipping and energy in this parliament has always insisted on the need to achieve 10% interconnection between member states, as set out by the european council, and any provision which highlights the shortcomings in this respect is very positive.
− i voted in favour of the final resolution mainly because during the vote we managed to get: co-decision: this is a huge victory,since for the first time we now the tfeu (lisbon treaty) legal basis on energy to get co-decision against the will of the commission.
this has been confirmed by the positive vote on am 30 listing nuclear fuels as a primary energy source under the scope of the regulation.
for sure, we will have to fight now to maintain this victory in the upcoming tripartite negotiations with council and com; ms must provide, at least five years before construction starts, the amount and types of investment in energy projects.
this is a really wise move towards better future energy scenarios, since the commission will get a better idea of how the energy market is evolving; renewables, including decentralised ones, will have to be fully considered; every single mention of 'low carbon', the pro-nuclear trojan horse has been deleted.
− i voted in favour of the final text of the resolution because it included our petitions to the eu commission to take into account in it's 2010-2014 roadmap not only the economic and financial crisis but also the impact of climate change on women; on the fact that inequality and gender stereotypes in the eu still persist with women remaining in a position subordinate to men in the areas address in the beijing platform; and because it promotes gender equality especially in terms of paternity leave.
in one side, agrees that priority access should be given to those who fish in the most environmentally sustainable way, leading to fewer discards, more jobs and less energy use, and stresses that the right to fish must be based on environmental and social criteria, rather than on who caught the most fish 30 years ago.
other positive points include making ecological sustainability the basic premise of the cfp and the recognition that eu fleets must no longer overfish in the waters of developing countries.
the report also declares the cfp to be the dominant policy in the eu, with environment and development policies being subservient to it.
it is this "preserve the fishing industry at all costs" attitude that has led to the destruction of the marine ecosystem and the fishing communities that depend upon it.
that is why we are calling for a fair demarcation for the island of formentera, that is, for the spanish government to draw a new demarcation line, which respects private property, as the court of strasbourg has repeatedly said, and that a law with retroactive effects should never be made which harms the way it is doing, especially when all these facilities were built with respect for the environment and, moreover, the national and local laws themselves protect the coast - you cannot build less than 300 metres from the coast or expand the hotel offer.
mr president, the 2008 competition policy report introduces a chapter on cartels and consumers, reports on the imposition of coercive fines for the first time, and includes important initiatives such as the guidelines accompanying the energy package and a white paper on actions for damages for infringement of competition rules.
on this occasion is the turn of parliament’s largest political groups to disappoint by adopting a resolution that is pure posture – it does not contain a single economic, social or environmental proposal.
poverty reduction, the fight against climate change and tackling the financial crisis require additional revenue of several hundred billion euro.
the ongoing projects in cuba benefit the population directly by addressing their basic needs, through support for rehabilitation and reconstruction after the hurricanes, food security and adaptation to climate change.
and this parliament gains credibility when it reacts with the same energy to all the violations of human rights in all the countries: in afghanistan, in palestine, in euskadi - my little country - in honduras or in colombia.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by stressing the importance of the strategic energy plan and its necessary contribution to accelerating the development and application of clean, sustainable and efficient energy technologies.
without this plan, it will not be possible to achieve the 2020 targets we have set ourselves, nor to achieve the transition to a low-carbon economy of the desired size by 2050. i am glad to see that there is a broad agreement between parliament and the council on the importance and necessity of both the objectives of the plan and the means to be made available to it.
the energy council intends to adopt conclusions on the eete plan at its meeting on friday 12 march.
these will be an important reference for the spring european council on 25 march, as the issue of climate change is on its agenda.
secondly, the way forward for future energy research cooperation in europe must be through the effective use of public resources and the creation of flexible public-private partnerships with industry.
if necessary, they should also significantly increase public funding for the development of low-carbon technologies.
fifthly, the commission and the european investment bank are already working together to improve the coordination and continuity of the financing of demonstration projects in the energy sector with high technological risk.
finally, the commission and the european investment bank are trying to assess the optimal financing packages for large demonstration projects, and the commission is therefore also invited to examine new ways of combining resources from different sources and to develop an ad hoc instrument for financing the commercial launch of low-carbon technologies.
ladies and gentlemen, all of this sends a clear message about future investment in the development of low-carbon technologies.
despite the heavy budgetary constraints at present, the message that the council will send at its meeting this friday will be a message of commitment, a positive message in terms both of the importance of this issue at european level and of the enormous value of each member state investing in the development of low-carbon technologies.
− madam president, although i am replacing my colleague günther oettinger today, it is a real pleasure to discuss with you the future of low-carbon technologies.
i personally was closely involved in the development of the european strategic energy technology plan (set plan) in the last commission and i believe strongly that the development of these technologies is one of the cornerstones of the energy policy we have to develop jointly in the years to come.
first, regarding our priorities for 2010 to 2020 and the launch of the european industrial initiatives, those six initiatives really match our priorities – wind, solar bio-energy, sustainable fission, smart grids, and carbon capture and storage are priorities that were strongly endorsed by parliament and the council.
at your request, we have also prioritised energy efficiency by developing a new dedicated initiative – ‘smart cities’ – to unlock the market potential of energy efficient technologies in cities and regions.
our estimate of the public and private investment needs for the development of low-carbon technologies in the set plan is eur 8 billion per year.
it is clear that eu level investments – coming either from the seventh framework programme or the european energy programme for recovery – will not be enough.
nor will the potential funds from the 300 million emissions trading allowances set aside for the demonstration of carbon capture and storage and innovative renewable technologies.
other technologies that deserve european-level intervention will certainly emerge over time, so the set plan must remain flexible, as we have already shown with the new initiative on energy efficiency – smart cities – which we expect to launch, as i said, in 2011. we will closely monitor the most promising technologies through the set plan information system.
it is a key file for achieving our energy policy goals, a key file for europe and for our future.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
several studies estimate that promoting the 20% renewable energy penetration target will result in 2.8 million european workers being employed in this sector by 2020. in addition, it is estimated that two thirds of the jobs created will come from small and medium-sized enterprises.
we agree that our objective must be translated into a clear increase in the appropriations for research into renewable energy and energy efficiency.
we need to invest in education and information to strengthen the links between the world of work and the world of education, and we need to foster skills of excellence in r & d and innovation to be in a position to fill the potential gaps in the renewable energy labour market.
the second amendment requires that 'the co-financing by community funds for the implementation of such plans, in particular under the structural funds, the eafrd, the cohesion fund and the european solidarity fund, be subject to sustainability measures'.
- i voted against the motion for a resolution (b7-0148/2010) on investment in the development of low-carbon technologies, as did my group, the greens/efa, for a number of reasons, but in particular because the amendment which called for the deletion of a key paragraph for us, recital i, which called for the name of the sixth european industrial initiative to be changed from 'sustainable nuclear energy' to simply 'nuclear energy', was successful.
we believe that the concept of 'sustainable nuclear energy' is meaningless, given that, at best, it is possible to reduce the environmental and health hazards and proliferation risks arising from the development and use of nuclear energy, but not to eliminate them.
more specifically, the one which made reference to the fact that in france buildings were allowed on floodplains and natural wetlands and that housing speculation caused the construction of buildings in vulnerable areas, and the one stating that all community funds for the implementation of such plans, particularly from the structural funds, the eafrd, the cohesion fund and the european solidarity fund, be conditional on sustainability measures.
and the way out of the crisis must be reflected, of course, in this commitment to strategy, which must be decisive in the change of growth model and its economic, social and environmental accents.
and from the environmental point of view, in the commitment to recover the spirit that made europe the leader in the commitment to environmental sustainability in the prevention of climate change, at the copenhagen conference, and, above all, in the recognition of this profoundly unsatisfactory taste in the mouth with which we have left the copenhagen conference.
european farmers are already making efforts to provide safe products, produced using techniques that respect the environment and animal welfare.
opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
greater protection of geographical indications should be granted both in the wto and in the negotiation of bilateral agreements, and european rules on integrated production should be developed to give visibility to this more sustainable production method and harmonise the existing criteria in each member state.
however, in the years before the crisis, these countries had already suffered first from the food crisis, which threatened the livelihoods of hundreds of millions of people; then from the energy crisis, which took up many resources of those who did not produce oil or gas; and finally from the climate crisis, whose effects on crops or infrastructure are most damaging to the poorest countries.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs has asked the international monetary fund to take account of the burden it has placed on the public finances of developing countries in the report it is to prepare for the next g20 meeting and for the commission to present a communication assessing how a financial transaction tax can contribute to achieving the millennium development goals, correcting global imbalances and promoting sustainable development.
the real meaning of consolidating public finances, an inexcusable task which must be carried out in a coordinated and intelligent manner, is to restore demand, promote investment and accompany the reforms which will enable the economy to be revived, increase the potential for sustainable growth and create jobs.
the creation of a common system with an independent supervisory authority and all the conditions for fair and transparent competition in the field of fares, taking account of environmental and social criteria, passenger protection, etc., seems to me to be a perfect solution, but i still think - and i would like the commission to clarify this - that some aspects are still missing.
it also proposes leadership in the fight against pollution before the imo, both in the aspects of alternatives to bunker fuel and in the reduction of sulphur emissions, and suggests that this be done by using intelligent transport systems such as the galileo satellite system.
climate change is also a very important issue.
ict is a key factor for growth in this time of economic recovery, but also for sustainable growth and the fight against social exclusion.
the green highlights in the middle of a disappointing report are: the paragraph concerning the ruling by the inter-american court of human rights on feminicides (the case of campo algodonero in mexico) was kept in the text, with 359 votes in favour, 235 against and 17 abstentions; we succeeded in getting into the text that the european investment facility should in particular be used for projects contributing to combating climate change, such as local public transport, electric vehicles and the yasuni-itt project in ecuador (‘keep the oil underground’).
finally, our amendment asking for the phasing-out of mega-energy projects that heavily damage the environment was rejected, too.
i would also like to address a special message to the prime minister, mr papandreou, and encourage him in his firmness and political courage, for all the energy he is devoting to saving the future of the country.
economic policy coordination must be active and effective, geared towards processes of sustainable and strong growth, shared by all and guaranteeing jobs.
the spanish presidency has therefore placed the development of the electric vehicle at the top of its agenda as a preferred alternative means of transport to reduce dependence on fossil fuels derived from petroleum in the transport sector and thus move clearly and decisively to an energy-efficient and environmentally sustainable transport system.
in line with this invitation, the commission then will refer to it mr tajani has published its european strategy on clean and energy-efficient vehicles, a communication on 27 april, which discusses electrical technologies, other technological alternatives in this field and other issues.
mr president, mr secretary of state, mr lópez garrido, as the spanish presidency mentioned in its speech, last week the commission, ladies and gentlemen, adopted a communication on clean and energy-efficient vehicles, and i had the pleasure of presenting this text as a matter of priority to the members of the committee on industry and energy during my hearing last wednesday.
the communication has two main pillars: the first part concerns the improvement of the traditional combustion engine, and the second part aims to establish a roadmap to promote and facilitate the diffusion of advanced technologies in ultra-low carbon vehicles, hydrogen-fuelled, biofuel-fuelled vehicles, hybrid vehicles and 100% electric vehicles.
we now know that european car manufacturers will launch the first fully electric and plug-in hybrids on the market in 2011, while continuing to produce more up-to-date, energy-efficient conventional vehicles.
in some cases the incentives are explicitly for electric vehicles, while in other cases they are linked to low co2 emissions.
the third element is research: the commission intends to work towards european research to achieve the goal of clean and energy-efficient transport by supporting research in all those technological areas, while streamlining and simplifying the procedures for obtaining european grants.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
but that said, there are a number of problems to be solved until the electric vehicle can be fully efficient and the task we have now ahead is to focus, precisely, on seeing how we can solve those problems as soon as possible so that the electric vehicle is also incorporated into this whole big project of having a more sustainable energy consumption while being efficient.
in order to get this way as soon as possible, i believe that it is essential, as in so many other aspects linked to energy and other issues, to make an effort in research.
one is the technological dimension and the other is the energy dimension.
the technology used by the electric vehicle is also the most efficient and has the most environmental advantages.
on the other hand, in the field of energy, the electric vehicle objectively helps to achieve these objectives, which we were talking about this afternoon when we were talking about europe 2020 and the objective of combating climate change, the so-called 20/20/20 objective.
the electric vehicle, which has storage capacity, has a technology that allows to soften one of the problems, the negative or weak points of renewable energies.
the electric vehicle helps renewable energies, which have a weak point: they are irregular.
and also, as far as energy security is concerned.
many european countries do not have oil reserves, for example, and the electric vehicle could make up for that shortfall, helping to achieve what is also a strategic objective of the union: the fight for energy security, which we have seen that sometimes makes our societies deeply vulnerable.
finally, i would say that, despite this, despite these advantages, we must admit that the electric vehicle will force us to change many of the manufacturing structures, including the technological ones i have mentioned above, the habits of citizens, the distribution networks of the source of energy for propulsion, and it will even make it necessary to go to a new communication strategy, as mr van nistelrooij said very rightly.
this choice, which the commission shares, is therefore based on a twofold strategy, which certainly does not exclude serious work to reduce co2 emissions from conventional vehicles, on two pillars: the commission has already made a number of proposals to improve the safety of the car, the hot-air vehicle, which must be improved and so it is right to focus, as mr bilbao and mr pallone have said, on technology and research if we are to win the challenge on the global market.
the electric car represents an extraordinary opportunity, but it is not the only opportunity, because our aim is to have a more competitive european industry on world markets and to reduce pollution and co2 emissions in the transport system, including urban transport.
but we must also give precise directions to the manufacturers in the sector, so that we can really have a pollution-free electric car.
written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the following is the report by alojz peterle, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the commission communication entitled 'action against cancer: a european partnership' (com (2009) 291 - 2009/2103 (ini)).
as regards the environmental factor, i can say that it is a fact that the environment is a very important factor as a determinant in the fight against cancer.
we must therefore increase our commitments to continue ensuring that high environmental standards are maintained.
written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by patrizia toia, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the mobilisation of information and communication technologies to facilitate the transition to a high energy efficiency and low carbon economy (com (2009) 0111 - 2009/2228 (ini)) (a7-0120/2010).
− mr president, the commission very much welcomes your interest, support and valuable recommendations on mobilising ict to facilitate the transition to an energy-efficient, low-carbon economy, and has read the toia report with care.
it is important to recognise the significant role the ict sector can play as an enabler to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and we need to make sure that this potential is embraced and made a reality.
as you mention in the report, ict can help to significantly improve energy efficiency in other areas, such as buildings and transport in particular.
the roll-out needs to be driven forward within member states, so as to deliver more active consumers who can exploit renewable generation and energy-efficient technology.
a common measurement framework for the ict industry’s own emissions is also essential.
in february 2010 the ict for energy efficiency forum was launched.
they will set targets on the basis of a common measurement framework for the ict sector’s own energy and carbon footprints, to be developed by the end of 2010. the forum is also looking at the contribution the ict sector can make to improve the efficiency of other sectors, such as building and transport.
these cities commit to reducing their own ict carbon footprints by 30% by 2020, and to deploying five large-scale ict pilots per city by 2015. the total number of cities committed to the green digital charter has increased from 14 to 21. energy retail market issues are becoming increasingly important, as markets move closer to consumers, to the introduction of new technology and systems in the form of smart meters and smart grids.
the aim is to advise the commission on policy, a regulatory framework, as well as to coordinate the first steps towards the implementation of smart grids under the provisions of the third energy package.
third operational priority: energy and the fight against climate change.
we may have the opportunity to discuss this in more detail, but i can assure you that the idea is good, in line with the strategy agreed at european level, to put more emphasis on renewable energy and energy efficiency.
mr lamberts cited figures for the period 2002-2008, but if you look at the most recent figures, particularly in 2009, you will see that the proportion is reversing, since in 2009 we financed renewable energy projects for more than four billion, which represents more than 70% of our financing for electricity generation.
the intention is therefore to continue this reversal of the ratio by increasing funding for renewable energy and energy efficiency, and i thank the speaker, mr stavrakakis, for his reference to the elena programme, which is again a joint programme with the commission to provide technical assistance in the field of energy efficiency.
if a state decides to use nuclear energy, the eib has no right to oppose it, but i can confirm that in the case of jordan we are only discussing financing for renewable energy.
secondly, the european investment bank is a key partner for the commission, in particular in achieving the europe 2020 objectives, namely sustainable growth and jobs.
we all recognise the diversity of the different regions of the union, but precisely for this reason, as the resolution says, the south is the one that is most affected by the pressures of climate change and needs europe and its common policies.
it is true that the risk is more present in the south, but let us not forget that climate change affects the whole of europe's environmental heritage.
a communication to clarify how public procurement can be used to promote sustainable development, social inclusion and innovation is being prepared.
− my vote in favour of this important directive is due to the need to improve the energy efficiency of buildings, one of the areas with the greatest potential to contribute to the eu's overall objectives of increasing energy efficiency by 20% by 2020. the text, agreed by the european parliament and the council, states that by the end of 2020, all new buildings must be zero-energy buildings, producing as much energy as they consume.
in addition, existing buildings will have to meet higher energy efficiency standards calculated by member states on the basis of a common framework established in the directive.
the indicator for measuring the energy efficiency of buildings shall be included in advertisements for sale or rental in the media.
another important innovation is the requirement to include smart meters and energy-saving control and management systems.
today's vote on eu rules for the energy performance of buildings is a major step forward in energy efficiency.
however, we strongly regret that the legislation does not take into account the renovation requirements of existing buildings, which account for 40% of energy consumption and 36% of greenhouse gas emissions in europe.
instead of implementing an ambitious energy efficiency policy by investing heavily in the renovation of buildings, the eu is focusing solely on new construction.
it misses the opportunity to create millions of jobs, reduce our energy dependence on our neighbours and significantly fight climate change.
- i voted in favour of the podimata report because i believe that parliament and in particular the s&d group have made very important progress on a directive which is crucial to achieving the energy efficiency target we have set ourselves.
we have not only succeeded in maintaining the a-g scale, which is known and accepted by european consumers, but also in making it compulsory to refer to the energy label of the household appliance whenever price information is displayed in advertising or promotional material.
another important point introduced by parliament is the obligation on the commission to draw up a priority list of energy-related products, including some construction products, which may be subject to subsequent measures.
finally, given the leading role to be played by the public sector, it seems to me that it is essential that in public procurement procedures administrations should purchase products belonging to the highest energy efficiency class.
the report emphasises job creation, the promotion of a sustainable economy, education and training to promote development, employment and competitiveness, and the key role of investment in research and development, taking into account the need to provide specific measures for regions with natural difficulties.
- madam president, commissioner, the committee on industry, research and energy wishes to express its support for the work of the eu forum for dialogue between universities and business.
in conclusion, madam president, the committee on industry, research and energy would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work and congratulate him on his appointment.
written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the following is the report by rebecca harms, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the community financial assistance for the decommissioning of units 1 to 4 of the kozloduy nuclear power plant in bulgaria - 'kozloduy programme' (com (2009) 0581 - c7-0289/2009 - 2009/0172 (nle)) (a7-0142/2010).
i would like to conclude by stressing that the commission very much welcomes the overall positive opinion of the report, namely that parliament agrees with the commission to continue to support bulgaria with an amount of eur 300 million until 2013, that the focus should be on supporting the continuation of safe deconstruction measures and that projects in the energy sector are also eligible.
we demand from my group greater commitment, greater energy in the face of all those responsible for breaking international law.
today more than ever, solutions to the crisis, to research, to climate change, to water, to new energy models, to sustainable development are needed.
thanks to the greens, the ep has finally recognised that bulgaria has hardly any policy regarding the final disposal of nuclear waste.
currently, the main hazards to humans and the environment are displaced to russia, where most irradiated fuel elements are exported.
this objective is necessary for reasons of energy efficiency and the environment, but also because the consolidation of truly trans-european rail corridors will add flexibility, efficiency, intermodality and possibilities to the movement of goods in particular and to logistics in general.
and there was also agreement on the treatment to be followed: the need for shock therapy to reactivate this traffic if we are to first meet our kyoto commitments to reduce emissions and also the urgency of achieving the diversification of alternatives for rampant road traffic, before total collapse.
it has therefore been an example of good institutional cooperation in order not to waste time and to be able to speed up these procedural rights, this first right.
not just any kind of growth, but intelligent growth, sustainable growth and inclusive growth.
to have sustainable growth, we need of course to have sound economic governance in europe, we have to respect the stability and growth pact, and we need the credibility of sound public finances, but we also need new regulatory supervision for the financial market and we need to invest in our potential for growth.
mr president, mr president barroso, i want to hear you talk about unemployment when you detail the objectives of the working group on economic governance, because you have referred to the strategy on many occasions as a strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
these are issues that affect responsibility and sustainability.
can responsible governance be ensured that avoids short-term perspectives and ensures sustainability?
is it sustainable?
we are discussing, for example, the europe 2020 strategy, so that we do not fall behind in r & d & i, in job creation, in global competitiveness, in respect for the environment.
it is one of the greatest achievements of european union environmental policy.
biodiversity is a key environmental priority for the commission during its present term.
in march this year the council reaffirmed that protected areas and ecological networks are a cornerstone of our efforts to preserve biodiversity and stressed the need to fully implement the birds and habitats directives and speed up completion of the natura 2000 network.
the eu habitats directive is a unique, flexible tool, which allows farming, fishing, forestry, hunting and even major development projects to be carried out in a way that does not destroy the ecological value of our natural heritage.
correct implementation of the provisions of the nature directives, early integration of environmental concerns into the planning process and broad information and involvement of all stakeholders are key to such success stories.
finally, in view of the fact that we have not met the political target of halting the loss of biodiversity in 2010, we will have to assess the reasons why we have failed.
in that context, we will also need to evaluate in detail whether implementation of our existing legislation is effective in delivering biodiversity protection and reflect on what improvements should eventually be made.
written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs lena ek, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the participation of the community in the joint research and development programme on the baltic sea (bonus-169) undertaken by several member states (com ((2009) 0610 - c7-0263/2009 - 2009/0169 ((cod)) (a7-0164/2010).
the bonus initiative would clearly help the countries of the baltic sea region to address more effectively the very complex and pressing environmental problems in this area by promoting synergies and avoiding the wasteful duplication of purely national research efforts.
in view of the key global political problems that we are facing in policy areas such as climate change, energy, food and health, the requirement to pool resources and work together becomes necessary.
madam president, this is an important debate which the european council and the g20 in toronto are preparing with a very ambitious agenda, concerning recovery from the crisis, the specific agenda of the g20 on the economic governance of globalisation, the response to the millennium goals and climate change.
so, in terms of the recovery of employment and decent work, the fight against poverty, the quality of work and the recovery of a culture of duties and responsibilities, which goes through the council and the g20 summit, we must look to people, in particular the idea of inclusive growth and green and sustainable growth.
madam president, the importance of relations with russia for the european union is obvious: a powerful neighbour, a strategic economic and energy partner, and a permanent member of the security council.
ladies and gentlemen, we need an ambitious agreement covering and regulating energy, investment and trade.
for instance, we won on aspects such: nano-labelling; mandatory country-of-origin labelling for meat, poultry, dairy products, fresh fruits and vegetables, other single-ingredient products and for meat, poultry, fish in processed foods; for meat, three places if appropriate (birth, rearing, slaughter); mandatory labelling of transfats and hydrogenated oils; front of pack: energy, sugar, salt, fats and saturates; sweetener front of pack; labelling of meat made of combined meat parts ('meat glue'); specification of oil origin (so that you can e.g.
health guarantees, sustainability and protection of the marine environment are important.
it must be given a coherent framework for coordination; it must be given the possibility of regularization, because aquaculture can mean sufficiency, sustainability and economic resources, and i think this is important for europe.
this makes it possible to ensure traceability and to be sure that the tuna consumed comes from controlled catches, made under conditions that ensure its sustainability and under the measures set out in the recovery plan adopted for this species.
its measures, based on scientific reports on the state of the resources, should contribute to their recovery and sustainability.
ensuring traceability from catch to the final stage of the marketing process is essential to combat illegal fishing and trade and, consequently, to promote sustainable fishing and responsible trade.
when the market is not regulated, jobs and species and the environment are put first.
the workers and the species have to suffer, and the planet as a whole, climate change.
so that we can put a stop to industrial techniques, to predatory techniques which do not take into account the need to maintain the natural environment and species.
i know that the cod is an ancient fishing technique that has never put tuna at risk - and mr romeva shares this view - and it is therefore a matter of the european union taking seriously all the technical reports and recommendations on catch documentation and traceability in paris in november, so that we can all make work compatible with the natural environment, which is a fundamental principle that should be part of the values of the european union.
and i really want to talk about your report, because we always talk about tuna, about sustainability criteria, we link it to illegal fishing, to a fraudulent situation and, however, we do not see the positive side, which is the determination of the population and its compliance, which is what each state must do and we must be vigilant.
we must support their work because it benefits not only the tuna, not only the sector that does things right, but also the environment and sustainability much more than today.
the commission's proposal is based on a long-term approach to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
the bluefin tuna is a symbol of what is happening in the eu, of what happens when the market is not regulated: it takes away jobs, the environment and species like bluefin tuna.
the depletion of fisheries resources is an environmental but also a social problem.
we must make an effort to make the eu work in harmony with the natural environment, biodiversity and sustainability.
− i am glad the crucial paragraphs for us, specially numers 17, 18 and 21 concerning environment, as well as 22 regarding social policy, were voted favourebously to remain in the text, which motivated our final positive vote to the whole report.
− environmental problems with aquaculture are multitude.
it can cause local pollution if farms are placed in poor sites or in too great a density; escaped fish can interfere with reproduction of local stocks (genetic pollution); high densities favour diseases and parasites that must be fought with antibiotics, vaccines, etc; there are animal welfare concerns over the conditions of the animals.
fish accepted a number of our amendments that were intended to counter these points - to insist that european aquaculture must concentrate on herbivorous species, that depletion of wild fish stocks to feed farmed fish is not sustainable, that subsidies for aquaculture must be based upon environmental impact assessments.
there are possibilities for the significant development of renewable energies, but investment will be difficult without stability, democracy and the rule of law firmly in place.
their treatment is an unnecessary waste of time, apart from the cost of dedicated staff.
so all the requests have actually increased compared to 2008. i think this shows that this parliament is indeed, in the eyes of many citizens, a very useful tool for bringing all kinds of requests to the house: environmental problems, fundamental rights, justice, the internal market... more and more requests: germany, spain, italy, romania in the lead i hope it does not correspond to the result of the match last morning and that germany is not ahead of spain.
but then, in all matters relating to the european union's own competences, such as ecosystem management, environmental matters, etc., we would have to speed up the european commission's responses much more in this procedure, including with letters of formal notice to the member states, because the commission knows that, many times, when the letter arrives or even when the court of justice of the european union intervenes, it is already too late.
the environmental damage is irreversible.
that is why i think it is very important that we should be able to find a much faster mechanism at this particular point: much faster from the moment the petition arrives, from the moment the commission gives its ruling to the petitioner, stating that damage has been caused or that there is a breach of european environmental protection directives, so that when the procedure reaches the courts, it is much faster to ensure that the damage is not irreversible.
our recent visit to huelva, in connection with all that pollution of the estuary meant, shows that it is indeed a very useful instrument.
and if we are able to speed up, simplify and make much more concrete the commission's action when there are environmental breaches, i think the citizens will appreciate it.
on 20 january, in this parliament, mr rodríguez zapatero announced the four priorities - not two - of his presidency: first, the common energy market; second, investment in the information society; third, the sustainable economy or industry with a plan for the development of the electric vehicle; fourth, the completion of the university area in bologna.
and none of them can ignore that none of the challenges of globalisation - demographic, energy, social and the fight against poverty - can be tackled by any country alone.
on the ecological side, they are still betting on ignoring the importance of energy efficiency, they are still betting on subsidizing coal, they are still not facing the destruction of the coasts.
what have been their contributions to the regulation of the financial market, the common energy market or the university space?
ensuring fair competition and economic equality for the european union is the first step without which sustainable development is not possible.
the fact is that on 19 february 2010 the commission published a proposal for a council decision to conclude, on behalf of the european union, the protocol on integrated coastal zone management (the iczm protocol) to the convention for the protection of the marine environment and the coastal region of the mediterranean (the convention is more commonly known as ‘the barcelona convention’; it was originally signed on 16 february 1976 and subsequently amended on 10 june 1995).
under article 4(3) of the convention, the contracting parties must promote the integrated management of coastal zones, taking into account the protection of areas of ecological and landscape interest and the rational use of natural resources.
at the committee stage, green/efa amendments were adopted on: support by the financing instruments earmarked for objective 2 for bodies working for a social, inclusive economy; adding the protection of the environment and the potential development of renewable energy as areas where added value of eu interventions can be demonstrated; and taking appropriate action (short- and long-term measures) for urban regions and centres that present particular and significant social problems (high unemployment, marginalisation, social exclusion, etc.)
− the grosch own-initiative report on a sustainable future for transport was adopted by a large majority (559 in favour; 34 against; 82 abstentions).
unfortunately, our amendments 4 (on a 30% co2 reduction for the entire transport sector (169 in favour; 497 against)) and 5 (on sustainable eu infrastructure cofunding criteria (123 in favour; 540 against)) were rejected.
we concentrated on highlighting the problems of recovery of bio-waste in the form of waste incineration with energy recovery, stating that the recycling of bio-waste is far preferable to incineration as not only does it avoid the formation of methane gas but it also contributes to combating climate change via carbon sequestration and the improvement of soil quality.
− fair trade-type schemes – or ‘private sustainability assurance schemes’, to give them their proper, though rather cumbersome, label – have an important role to play in promoting development and informing customer choice.
that is why the commission is supportive of the efforts of bodies such as the iseal alliance, the international trade centre and unctad to provide more clarity on the sustainability criteria used for different schemes.
the following is the recommendation for the second reading of the report of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on novel foods and amending regulation (ec) no 1331/2008 and repealing regulation (ec) no 258/97 and commission regulation (ec) no 1852/2001 (rapporteur: kartika tamara liotard) (11261/3/2009 - c7-0078/2010 - 2008/(0002cod)) (a7-0152/2010).
many of the amendments that were carried have been incorporated into the council position that was adopted at first reading in march 2010. the council position maintains the principle of the need for pre-market authorisation for innovative products to reassure consumers that new production techniques are safe for humans and animals and respect both the interests of consumers and the environment.
written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the following is the recommendation for second reading of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on industrial emissions (integrated pollution prevention and control) (recast) (written by mr holger krahmer) (11962/3/2009 - c7-0034/2010 - 2007/0286 (cod)) (a7-0145/2010).
− mr president, a key point that allows us to address problems of environmental protection and distortion of competition is, firstly, requiring bat conclusions to be used in setting permit conditions and, importantly, emission limit values.
the largest sources of pollution – large combustion plants – will have to apply best available techniques by mid-2020 or shut down by 2023. you are probably aware that our proposal was for a shorter time.
it is also important to know that we have a lot of complementary policies to support industry: the strategic energy technology plan, the environmental technologies action plan, the seventh framework programme, the competition and innovation programme, structural funding and so on.
to summarise what i have heard today: better environment, stay competitive, european jobs, sustainability, cutting costs, too many exemptions, stricter rules, more flexibility needed, interests, balanced rights.
the fact is that we are moving in the right direction, in the direction of a better quality of life, a more healthy environment, a more level playing field for industry, with stimulus for new innovation.
written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the following is the recommendation for second reading of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down the obligations of operators who place timber and timber products on the market (rapporteurs: satu hassi and caroline lucas) (05885/4/2010 - c7-0053/2010 - 2008/0198 (cod)) (a7-0149/2010).
forests are at the heart of the battle against climate change and at the heart of the battle for protecting biodiversity.
we cannot allow the european commission to ignore this reality and endanger the health of citizens and the conservation of our ecosystem.
as for the rest, the committee on the environment’s position was reaffirmed, with exclusion of foods derived from cloned animals and their descendants from the scope.
− today’s vote on industrial emissions legislation is a step in the right direction for limiting the damage to our environment from industrial pollutants but it is regrettable that the final outcome falls short in key areas.
i am still dissatisfied by the final outcome which gives the all-clear to more air pollution by the oldest and dirtiest power plants.
instead of rewarding good behaviour we are rewarding pollution, with european citizens paying the price.
the aim of this directive is to ensure better protection of european citizens and the environment by obliging industries to limit their environmental pollution.
the next reform of the cap will put at risk the viability of a sector which not only provides intangible goods and services, such as environmental protection, but which should also ensure the food supply for european citizens.
we have already seen painful shortages in the past, and it is therefore necessary for the european parliament to make security of supply based on community production the main objective of the next reform, while at the same time making other contributions, such as the fight against climate change.
this diversity must be taken into account if, in the regions where it is expressed, these different types of agriculture are to contribute to the achievement of objectives concerning not only the supply of markets, production and security of supply of markets, but also a move towards a better consideration of the environment, the management of natural resources and the capacity for economic development in rural areas.
mr commissioner, are you aware that, in addition to drowning the community sector, your policy is also leading papua new guinea into a dynamic of low-quality job creation and zero sustainable development?
do you know the complaints of ngos in the area about child labour, unsanitary and unhygienic conditions in factories, the disastrous environmental impact on the madang coast and illegal fishing?
we cannot therefore be sustainable, we cannot guarantee the maintenance of species and we cannot make a real market action if we do not consider fisheries as a 'sensitive product'.
it notes the progress made in the reform process, stressing that further substantial efforts are needed in terms of the consolidation of democracy and the rule of law and of the sustainable development of the country.
it encourages the development and use of renewable energy, public transport and environmental legislation.
i therefore believe that a thorough reform of the cap is necessary to guarantee small farmers access to aid, land, seeds and water and thus support a social, productive and sustainable agricultural model.
− the greens/efa have been able to include an important number of amendments which focused on environmental and social conditioning of direct payments, measures against climate change, a broader and more inclusive approach to rural territorial development and fair income for farmers.
the report also includes measures to give fairness to those links in the chain, as called for in the environment committee, and also calls for the fight against abusive and unfair practices in the large distribution sector.
the european commission is in the process of rescuing the country and, when the european commission decides on the viability of the spanish royal decree and the european coal aid regulation, it will be deciding on the livelihood of 40 000 families in spain, whether or not to encourage investment in clean coal extraction and combustion technologies and, therefore, deciding on the future of many of europe's leading regions - including asturias, my own - and on the survival of our only indigenous source of energy.
− i celebrate the fact that the european parliament has today adopted a report on the job potential of the sustainable economy led by my german green colleague, elisabeth schroedter.
moreover, we object to the eu negotiated carve-out in the fta permitting the export to korea of big gas guzzlers not meeting korea’s more stringent co2-emissions limits and timelines.
the objectives of the european union must be sustainable growth, job creation and the pursuit of greater social cohesion, with the fight against poverty being a new priority for the union to which my group is committed.
mining must be maintained as a strategic reserve and as a complement to renewable energy.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
the fact is that in the 1994 peace treaty between israel and the kingdom of jordan, it was agreed to cooperate along the shared borders to ecologically recover the jordan river and to protect the ecological water resources.
as the occupation is accompanied by irregular and illegal water use, it adds another problem, apart from the political problem, such as the problem of ecological sustainability.
as new waste water treatment plants are already scheduled to start operating in 2011, i hope that the european union will support, promote and encourage the need to establish such a committee for the jordan river basin.
the region of lower jordan is in a state of total degradation, with poor management leading to severe pollution and a 50% loss of biodiversity.
mr president, i think that in the year of biodiversity we have talked a lot about the tragedy that is happening, but very little about solutions.
so we should have a micro-policy dedicated to biodiversity because, precisely, biodiversity is local.
experts acknowledge that the lack of insects is the great tragedy of biodiversity loss, especially in relation to birds.
this kind of ideological dictatorship must be ended in europe if we are to achieve a better biodiversity.
our natural environment is so fragile that if one day the big fish decided that it wasn't going to continue to eat the little one, we would have to pay for it all out of our generational pocket with our health and well-being as the bargaining chip.
the european union is a leader today in the fight against climate change and has been for some time in pioneering and conservation measures.
of course, biodiversity is not a museum piece that can be locked up in a ghetto area, as it sometimes seems to be done, by taking a look at it from time to time.
biodiversity lives and knows no borders, crossing the whole earth in a domino effect where, if one chip falls, all the others fall.
and i want to draw attention to the need for a global and more community-based will, especially in relation to land, because subsidiarity as the only method of managing land or forests can be one of the new and feared enemies of biodiversity.
either we take the necessary action with energy, with decision and leadership, or we will fall behind our competitors.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the member states are not able to meet the requirements of the treaty.
the union's energy supply is largely dependent on external sources, and diplomacy can do much in this strategic field.
the regulation was adopted unanimously by the committee on industry, research and energy, following the successful conclusion of the trilogues with the council.
the member states will also have to build or renew their own infrastructure in order to further integrate the internal energy market and limit the presence of energy islands.
mr president, commissioner, we have been reminded here today that the crisis of january 2009 showed more than our energy dependence.
that is why this regulation is so important, because it clearly links the construction of interconnections to security of supply, and it emphasizes the need to diversify our sources and to eliminate energy islands.
let me conclude, mr president, by congratulating the commission, mr vidal-quadras and the spanish presidency on having contributed in record time to european solidarity in the energy field.
what is clear, mr kasoulides said, is that none of the problems facing the world today - globalisation and the digital economy and the reform of the financial system, the issue of security and the struggle to try to contain nuclear developments (look, if not, at the case of iran), the issue of preserving the environment and natural resources and security of energy supply - can be solved without china's participation.
it is time for europe to really play the role of global actor that it is called upon to play in the world by taking on not only economic relations but also political relations, what has to do with nuclear proliferation, what has to do with climate change, what has to do with security, with china's role in africa and latin america.
regrettably, however, the eu lacks any coherent strategy on the role of gas in european energy policy.
the landscape for gas is changing, whether due to new supply sources and resources (like shale gas) or to new measures affecting demand, such as eu legislation on buildings’ energy performance.
the greens believe the commission must take stock of these developments and undertake a proper analysis of gas supply and the role of gas ahead of the eu’s ‘energy summit’ this coming february.
the eu must take responsibility for the fiasco of the 2010 strategy to combat biodiversity loss.
); an end to member states' breaches of european environmental legislation; and the adoption of a european environmental strategy.
and allocate 0.3% of gdp to measures to protect biodiversity.
we must not hide the fact that there are still obstacles to overcome, because a successful strategy to halt the loss of biodiversity requires a fundamental re-examination of our economic development model.
− we, the greens, have supported this report as it notes that natural and man-made disasters may have very serious consequences for the economic and social development of regions and member states and points out that the main objective of disaster prevention is to safeguard human life, the safety and physical integrity of individuals, fundamental human rights, the environment, economic and social infrastructures, including basic utilities, housing, communications, transport and the cultural heritage.
the following is the joint debate on the report by linda mcavan, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending, as regards pharmacovigilance of medicinal products for human use, regulation (ec) no 726/2004 laying down community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a european medicines agency (com (((2008) 0664 c6-0515/2008 2008/0257 (((cod)) (a7-0153/2010), and the report by linda mcavan, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending, as regards pharmacovigilance, directive 2001/83/ec, laying down a community code on medicinal products for human use (com ((2008) 0652-0614 (cod)) (com (2008) 0602-065) 2008/06-06 (cod))
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, i would first of all like to highlight the work of the rapporteur, mrs mcavan, not only in substance but also in form, because she has worked in collaboration with all the alternative rapporteurs.
as regards the question raised by mrs rivasi on the strengthening of the rules on the risks posed by medicinal products to the environment, we also believe that it is important to take account of the aspect of environmental protection, and we accept the parliament's suggestion that a report be presented by the commission, accompanied, if necessary, by a legislative proposal on the risks posed by medicinal products to the environment.
i would like to take this opportunity to remind the members that environmental aspects have already been included as a point of action in the commission's communication on the future of the pharmaceutical sector, adopted prior to this legislative proposal in the framework of the pharmaceutical package presented in december 2008. annex position of the commissionproposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending, as regards pharmacovigilance, directive directive 2001/83/ec on the community code relating to medicinal products for human use (com ((2008) 0665 c6-0514/2008 2008/0260 ((cod)) amendments to the rules of procedure directly acceptable: amendment no 74 (text as a whole, block no 1, compromise amendment) is not acceptable.
written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the following is the report by christa klaß, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council concerning the placing of biocidal products on the market and their use (com ((2009) 0267 c7-0036/2009 2009/0076 cod)) (a7-0239/2010).
this is to ensure that we do not fall behind in r & d & i, job creation, global competitiveness and environmental protection.
i am absolutely convinced that it is precisely in cultural cooperation that crossborder regional cooperation is needed, because the cultural environment is precisely crossborder in terms of administrative boundaries.
but i am aware that, in addition to their territorial fragmentation, the islands, as they are always the external borders of the european union, pose a particular vulnerability to the union's energy, transport, infrastructure and, above all, internal and external security strategies in the face of threats, in particular against illicit trafficking.
all these regions share very similar problems in the areas of culture, education, transport and the environment.
so if we look at resources, like drinking water or soil, which is limited, or raw materials or energy or living space in these areas, we will see that they undoubtedly lead to a phenomenon of scarcity and lack of economic diversification.
the strategy mentions the word development, but i want to emphasise three principles: first, the business models that generate development in these areas must be geared to profitability and the quality of production, and new activities linked to the low-carbon economy are the way to boost them.
mr president, mr commissioner, issues such as unemployment, rural development, agriculture, fisheries, transport, the promotion of renewable energy and environmental protection are essential for our islands, mountainous regions and sparsely populated regions.
all these measures must be taken to avoid the recurrence of severe crises, to protect consumers, who are also taxpayers, and to foster the sustainable and equitable growth we are all calling for.
ladies and gentlemen, i have always believed that in the financial sector as in the environmental sector, prevention always costs less than repair.
parliament has worked together to make the package a triple focus: more balanced, reaching the safety and solvency of financial institutions, financial inclusion and the protection of consumers, depositors and taxpayers; more prudent, to respond to systemic risk, to act in emergency situations and to be able to temporarily ban toxic products; and more sustainable, fostering competitiveness, internalisation of costs and the prospect of a european crisis management system based on contributions from financial institutions.
we abstained on this report because the gains made in protecting human health and the environment have been cancelled out by gifts to industry which endanger the functioning of the european chemicals agency.
clearly though, we also need to find new models for remunerating artists in the changed environment.
a new common policy on this should be in place from 2013. scientists and the fishing industry often have different views and take different positions on fisheries and environmental management.
in the context of the union's immigration policy, it should also be added that the commission has adopted an action plan for unaccompanied minors, which proposes a common approach based on the principle of the best interests of the child, and identifies major areas of action such as prevention, reception and the search for sustainable solutions.
having taken into account the opinion of parliament adopted on 8 september 2010, the presidency will submit them to the council for adoption at its next epsco session on 21 october 2010. according to these guidelines, member states and the european union should implement reforms aimed at smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the council stressed, for example, that member states must also improve the business environment, stimulate job creation, including green jobs, and help companies to modernise their industrial base.
complex negotiations are taking place within the council, which is devoting a great deal of energy to this issue.
and it is this coherence that i think is important to demand, because the commission's discourse in terms of maintaining biodiversity is good, it is very good, but it must be coherent when it is also applied to sectoral policies, for example in fisheries policy matters.
transparency and predictability can be improved, and the impact on smes, employment and the sustainability of enterprises can be considered.
it is important that you in the commission see cohesion policy as an investment policy and not a spending policy, an opportunity to build confidence and sustainable development.
secondly, to emphasize that cohesion policy is not a sectoral policy but a transversal one, which means that the regional dimension of cohesion policy cannot be considered a specific sectoral policy but must go through energy policy, transport policy, and also communications and innovation policy.
to measure them in a relevant way and to better support decision-making on the allocation of eu funds, the european union needs social and environmental indicators in addition to gdp.
madam president, this agreement will also mean a fight in defence of fishermen, a fight against illegal fishing, control measures - which are what should govern fisheries policy - and another step towards sustainable fishing.
the primary objective of nafo is to contribute, through consultation and cooperation, to the optimal use, sound management and conservation of fishery resources in the nafo convention area and to foster ideas for international collaboration to improve the sustainable management of marine resources on the high seas on a scientific basis.
the priority objective of nafo is to contribute through consultation and cooperation to the optimum utilisation and rational management and conservation of the fishery resources of the convention area nafo and the promotion of ideas for international collaboration to improve the sustainable management of marine resources in the high seas based on the scientific research fundamentals.
to this end, the presidency will continue to contribute actively to the excellent climate of cooperation that has prevailed so far, and i believe that it would be particularly damaging to the union's image with european citizens if we were not able to reach agreement on this first budget voted under the new lisbon treaty.
we cannot just go around and announce a europe 2020 strategy, in which we seek economically, socially and environmentally sustainable growth, which wants to achieve what the lisbon strategy failed to achieve, and, as soon as we have explained the strategy, we cut, for example, research expenditure to finance other research expenditure.
this was originally foreseen for 2008-2009 but the chain of events – the late adoption of the lisbon treaty, the late appointment of the commission and then a new eu 2020 strategy – explains why this is taking place in october 2010. the budgetary review should be seen as an integral part of our reflection on how to make europe more competitive, dynamic, inclusive and sustainable.
it is also clear that we need to find common european answers to common challenges in the areas of climate change, energy, security and migration.
this can be done by addressing common challenges in a coherent and coordinated way, especially if there are cross-border implications which are typical in the case of energy, security, migration and climate change.
the annual squabbling over the budgets between the european institutions leads to chaotic decision-making and creates an acrimonious diversion, which could be so easily avoided through an own resources system, such as allocating part of the revenue from an eu financial transaction tax, a tax on aviation fuel or a carbon tax to fund the eu budget.
first, let me respond to a concrete question by mr belder concerning the investment and business environment.
we will continue to support them to successfully pass sustainability tests through the forthcoming parliamentary elections.
and this initial course, together with the mistakes in the decisions taken by the then minister for development, mr álvarez-cascos, caused a total disaster and the greatest ecological, social and economic accident on the galician coast.
and that is why we must strengthen the sustainable fisheries policy and integrate the difficulties of people living in the sea - a sector, by the way, very responsible.
we must develop the highways of the sea to reduce co2 and achieve greater development of renewable energies.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a good one.
we all need to respond to environmental and economic problems, both for society in general and for the fishing sector: new technologies, fishing gear, development of species, a maritime economy plan to find more and better jobs, quality supplies, international relations that prevent piracy and promote the governance of our seas, that they have no barriers, and that they do not have sustainability problems as in the case of iceland.
this would be to work for an integrated maritime policy, this would be to work for the environment and sustainability.
although measures for which funding was provided in the past (special framework of assistance, sfa) were designed to help the acp countries adjust to changing trends in international competition, we are still faced with similar problems today, and ‘the sustainability of acp banana exports remains fragile’.
it considers that integrated maritime policy (imp) should contribute to achieving a competitive, social and sustainable union.
it takes the view in this regard that the development of imp must harmoniously incorporate efforts to attain economic development, a high level of employment – particularly by making the sector more attractive for young people through training actions and the launch of a ‘maritime erasmus’ – and environmental protection.
moreover, the ep asks the commission, therefore, to come up with an overarching, cross-sectoral strategy for sustainable growth in coastal regions and maritime sectors by 2013, based on a broad investigation of potentials and policy options and on broad stakeholder consultation.
− the reason we finally voted against the text was that the more specific proposals to shelter latin america from speculative attacks and climate change phenomena, discourage aggressive export orientation, avoid environmental dumping and hedge the liberalisation of financial services, got diluted in the process of building compromises, as counterweights to stop even more grotesque spanish wordings.
there is always an agenda between two such relevant partners, in the midst of a serious economic crisis of global scope, and when there are challenges such as terrorism, climate change, energy security or nuclear proliferation.
mr president, it is right that the commission has launched its innovation union proposal in parallel with its industrial policy proposal, because, indeed, to ensure smart and sustainable growth that generates jobs and competitiveness, the european union must improve its capacity to innovate.
as coordinator, i am convinced that, with the collaboration of all, this parliament will contribute to providing solutions to these new challenges: solutions that maintain a balance between the economic, social and environmental aspects in order to move towards a greener, smarter and more socially cohesive europe.
but it would be unfair if i did not say that the main responsible person - and i am a woman, the main responsible person - is commissioner malmström, who, with her support, her energy and her excellent team, has made it possible to push this dossier forward, which i call an act of justice.
as the rapporteur has explained, we are going to allocate funds to sustainable energy micro-projects which will make it possible not only to achieve such important objectives as increasing security of supply and reducing co2 emissions, but also to achieve an objective with a very direct impact on citizens: the reduction of energy poverty.
finally, we should be pleased that once again we have shown sufficient flexibility to respect the good practices developed in the member states to link the deployment of renewable energies and energy efficiency.
i am talking about market measures and other initiatives to prevent, among other things, the damage caused by intensive production models which respect the environmental standards of the european union being penalized by the future aid scheme.
i therefore believe that it is necessary, firstly, to ensure sufficient funding in the cap after 2013 to ensure the viability of agricultural producers and livestock farmers; secondly, to adopt specific measures for farmers using sustainable protection measures; thirdly, to strengthen measures to support the livestock sector in the most disadvantaged areas; and fourthly, to require that imports from third countries comply with european union rules to avoid unfair competition.
after decades of tension, the political climate between the present taiwanese government and the people’s republic of china is currently very positive, as the establishment of direct flights and the unprecedented level of cross-straits business and personal exchanges show, thus providing a window of opportunity for a trouble-free implementation of the measure.
− in 2009, the eu adopted a programme to aid economic recovery for europe (eepr) by granting eur 3.98 billion for energy projects by the end of 2010. that community financing was allocated to three sub-programmes in the fields of gas and electricity infrastructure projects, offshore wind electricity projects (owe), and carbon capture and storage projects (ccs).
thanks to the greens, we managed to get a provision which would allow to use the uncommitted funds for the creation of a dedicated financial instrument to support energy efficiency and renewable initiatives, in particular in urban settings.
it stresses that security threats and challenges should be tackled through all three dimensions if action is to be truly effective, including contemporary ones such as organised crime, terrorism, cyber-threats, human and drug trafficking, energy security, as well as activities relating to early warning mechanisms, and conflict prevention and resolution.
the result is not overwhelming, as other groups insisted on pointing to high environmental and animal welfare standards as the reason for lower competitiviness in the eu livestock sector.
they also would not agree to take climate-change issues related to livestock production into consideration.
commissioner, the sector urgently needs the plan in order to achieve its objective, to develop a profitable activity without endangering the fisheries and, to do this, the anchovy biomass in the bay of biscay must be maintained at a level that allows its sustainable exploitation in the economic, environmental and social fields.
the only way to do that is to exploit the stock consistent with maximum sustainable yield and keep a low risk of fishery closure.
our proposal shows that this can be done while at the same time providing sustainability for the industry.
as you know, the commission is committed to promoting the sustainable development of aquaculture in the eu through the new aquaculture strategy.
this implies a high level of environmental protection, but also the establishment of the conditions to facilitate aquaculture operations.
as for the proposal for the exploitation of anchovy, it was to be a proposal for the sustainable exploitation of anchovy, and it has been a complex proposal which the council has blocked.
i congratulate the rapporteurs on reaching first reading agreements with the council to revise two regulations adapting the fisheries policy to the lisbon treaty and underlining the european union's commitment to sustainable activity in resource management and biodiversity conservation.
it is also essential that the european union update the definition and operating conditions of closed installations in aquaculture, consider how to make public their list and establish, in accordance with the lisbon treaty, the procedures for the development or implementation at community level of the rules aimed at preventing pollution in these activities which may put our ecosystems at risk or affect them.
the proposed plan aims to ensure sustainable exploitation by establishing quotas through scientific criteria.
first i would like to react to the remarks of mrs fraga, on behalf of the epp and of other members, about the institutional problems we have now, referring to the new institutional environment we have under the lisbon treaty.
madam president, commissioner, it is a pity that when we are talking about the future of 180 000 european families and the quintessential indigenous energy source in the european union, the european parliament has only a right of consultation.
subsidies are not a general way of making europe competitive, but making european coal competitive through subsidies is, firstly, strategically necessary, because 60% of european energy is imported and 40% is nuclear - which many in this house do not want - and secondly, because of the price trend: the european price of coal is getting closer to the international price.
without european coal, if we shut down european mines, there will be no incentive to continue reducing emissions from thermal power stations, which will continue to burn imported coal and produce co2.
it is absurd that those who oppose european coal should defend or tolerate coal from other latitudes, which is produced with greater environmental damage, terrible insecurity and wages which are not really competitive.
our energy dependence means that coal as a native source of fossil energy is the only source of secure energy supply, and the economic and social impact of mining in several european regions requires that mine closures are not considered as an inevitable event either in 2014 or 2018. if we remain energy dependent on coal, in 2018 we will have to continue to guarantee energy supply with aid if the mines are not competitive or without aid if they are competitive.
we must also consider the competitiveness of coal, not only economically but also in terms of employment and the environment.
madam president, in order to mitigate the social and energy impact and to ensure a secure energy reserve, we have tabled three amendments to the house with the following objectives: firstly, that the overall volume of aid per year be decreasing, although without any percentage or per company limit.
secondly, that the aid to cover exceptional costs be extended until 2030. the proposals will help to reduce the energy dependence of many countries in the union, including spain.
there are several reasons for supporting coal aid: strategic, territorial sustainability and social.
the environmental argument is also useless, since imported coal is as polluting as indigenous coal, and let us not forget that the mines from which we import coal often do not respect social rights.
as for reasons of territorial sustainability, in many cases the mines are in sparsely populated regions that are totally dependent on this industry to maintain the region, and we can turn our lands into a desert.
in spain and in my region, aragon, we are pioneers in renewable energy, with almost 60% autonomy.
the only resource we can store is coal, and we need more time to be able to improve our technologies and apply them to mining and to turn our indigenous coal into a clean, sustainable coal.
having regard as well to rules 81, 90(8) and 46(1) of parliament’s rules of procedure, and to the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy (a7-0303/2010), we have agreed to the following: 1. consents to the conclusion of the agreement; 2. instructs its president to forward its position to the council, the commission and the governments and parliaments of the member states and of the faeroes.
this should allow the eu and japan, which already cooperate on major projects such as iter, to further deepen their cooperation in areas of common interest such as life sciences, information and communication, manufacturing technologies or the environment, including climate change and renewable energy.
− with this vote, the european parliament – having regard to the draft council decision (11363/2010), having regard to the draft agreement between the european community and the government of japan on cooperation in science and technology (13753/2009), having regard to the request for consent submitted by the council in accordance with article 186 and article 218(6), second subparagraph, point (a), of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (c7-0183/2010), having regard to rules 81, 90(8) and 46(1) of its rules of procedure, having regard to the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy (a7-0302/2010), 1. consents to the conclusion of the agreement; 2. instructs its president to forward its position to the council, the commission and the governments and parliaments of the member states and of japan.
the country has a strategic research planning and is able to cooperate internationally in sectors such as energy, sustainable development, health or agriculture, among others.
− with this vote, the european parliament – having regard to the draft council decision (11362/2010), having regard to the draft agreement between the european community and the hashemite kingdom of jordan on scientific and technological cooperation (11790/2009), having regard to the request for consent submitted by the council in accordance with article 186 and article 218(6), second subparagraph, point (a) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (c7-0182/2010), having regard to rules 81, 90(8) and 46(1) of its rules of procedure, having regard to the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy (a7-0304/2010), 1. consents to the conclusion of the agreement; 2. instructs its president to forward its position to the council, the commission and the governments and parliaments of the member states and of the hashemite kingdom of jordan.
− the commission’s proposal deals with amendments to a regulation on the use of alien species in aquaculture based on the impasse project, which focussed on the environmental impact of alien species.
as the rapporteur notes, the introduction of alien species is one of the main reasons why ecosystems are being thrown out of kilter and, along with the destruction of natural habitats, one of the biggest contributory factors implicated in global biodiversity loss.
this conversion must consist, on the one hand, in the transition to sustainable economic activities that create quality jobs and, on the other hand, and where possible, in the establishment of a more competitive and sustainable extraction of coal and the less polluting use of this mineral.
− today’s vote is in conflict with the eu’s economic, energy and climate change interests.
subsidising uncompetitive coal mines is a waste of billions of euros of public money, particularly in the context of current pressures on public finances.
instead, it risks delaying the transition towards a green economy – with a future energy sector based on energy efficiency and renewable energy – which will ensure the creation of thousands of new, sustainable jobs in former coal-producing regions.
as the market continues to grow and innovation cycles become even shorter, the replacement of equipment accelerates, making waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) the fastest growing waste stream.
weee arisings are estimated to grow to 12.3 million tonnes by 2020. weee is a complex waste stream, including several hazardous substances.
these substances, or their transformation products, can be released into the environment and damage human health, especially if not treated appropriately.
risks for human health and the environment are further increased by sub-standard recycling/recovery operations in developing countries.
according to article 174(2) of the treaty, environmental damage should as a priority be rectified at source.
the waste hierarchy in the waste framework directive gives first priority to prevention, which is defined inter alia as setting out waste prevention measures that reduce the content of harmful substances in materials and products.
i would like to start by saying that i am impressed by the variety and quality of your reflections, critical comments and constructive contributions to what has been presented by the commission as a draft energy strategy for the period 2011-2020. i thank you, mrs kolarska-bobińska, for your moderation, for the clever way in which you have brought together the contributions of the members and for the priorities which are important to me personally.
we shall be happy to incorporate your report into the work of the next few weeks, because we are facing busy weeks in the field of energy policy.
the energy council on 3 december and the unique opportunity for the heads of state or government to take care of energy on 4 february will give us a boost to our common objectives and to our european energy policy.
if you look at the foundations of the internal market for other products, services, goods and goods that exist - roads, railways, airways, airports, the digital world, waterways - then we are still far from what we need with our infrastructure for the transport of energy media, namely gas and electricity, for our european energy policy objectives, namely strengthening security of supply, solidarity, competition and consumer interests.
we need transparency to increase acceptance of the construction of electricity and gas infrastructures, and we need the appropriate financial resources, which are paid for by the consumer through the price of energy, but which, where european interests are involved, are also a public responsibility for the european budget.
thirdly, we have a largely untapped potential in the area of energy efficiency.
if we are as dependent on imports as we are and want to promote sustainability, climate protection and environmental protection, we must be against energy waste and pioneers in the targeting of energy use, energy saving and greater energy efficiency in the public, industrial and private sectors.
that's why energy efficiency is going to be the next item on the agenda for both of us.
i look forward with great interest to parliament's own-initiative report, which is on the way to presenting our strategy for energy efficiency to the public, to you and to the council in the spring of next year.
another part of our strategy is the issue of affordable energy.
the belgian presidency of the council rightly points out that electricity in particular can also lead to a division of society by making energy more expensive and thus no longer available to everyone.
this means that we must include in our strategies the security of supply of affordable energy for industry and jobs and for households.
europe cannot do everything, but energy research can be a focus of european budgets in the coming years and a partnership between the public sector and the research economy.
we need a common european strategy in energy foreign policy when it comes to europe's major interests.
we're still the largest energy consumer market, ahead of china, ahead of the united states.
the report before us is certainly as ambitious as it is extensive and is the result - i have to say this - of arduous and successful negotiations which led to its virtually unanimous approval by the committee on industry, research and energy.
i would like to continue on with the subject and point out something we all know, but it is no exaggeration: the european energy situation is not exactly optimal.
we are not only increasingly dependent on energy imports from outside our own territory, but we are also faced with the major investments required in our energy infrastructure at a time when europe is still suffering the consequences of the crisis.
and all this against the background of the fact that we have not yet succeeded in implementing our own energy legislation.
the lisbon treaty not only provides a number of clear objectives such as the internal energy market, security of supply, energy efficiency and the promotion of energy networks, but also provides the european union with a legal framework and a sound legal basis - article 194 - for action in the field of energy policy.
in this new context, i ask all my colleagues to support this report, which proposes a series of measures to ensure energy supply, the full implementation of existing legislation and programmes, and stresses the need to invest in research, promote the development of pan-european energy networks and grids, and give due prominence to the creation of the internal energy market.
indeed, given its strategic nature, it is a long report which deals in detail with the different facets of the union's energy policy and deals with them by building the strategy on the important set of rules we have adopted over the last few years.
at the present time, it is very urgent to apply with determination the legislative and financial mechanisms at our disposal to strengthen in good time, and this is very important, those weak links in the transeuropean energy networks.
as regards taxation, i believe that efficiency, energy saving and renewable energy require, in order to develop at the levels envisaged, not only specific taxation but also tax incentives in the form of deductions or exemptions as appropriate.
the fight against climate change has two fundamental elements: firstly, it has to be global, it has to include all the big emitters - from the united states to brazil, china or india - and secondly, it has to be an efficient set of measures on the impact on climate change, it has to be able to measure that impact and, moreover, it does not undermine economic growth.
in this sense, we must also have the modesty to recognise that the fight against climate change - this global challenge - offers a variety of technological and political options.
all options must be put into play, and this must be accompanied by a radical increase in energy efficiency in all sectors of the economy and in all sectors of society.
only then will we be able to tackle the problems of climate change effectively.
in connection with this debate, the importance of cities in preserving the environment should be underlined.
to do this, it is very important that emissions are disclosed, as cities produce almost 80% of greenhouse gases.
today there is no such disclosure and, what is worse, no common standard for the measurement of these emissions.
without your cooperation, without the cooperation of these town halls and mayors, environmental action will be reduced to a smoke, the smoke we want to escape.
a just, sustainable and mutually acceptable solution, mrs jiménez, mrs ashton, is needed so that the referendum on self-determination can be held.
we support the commission in its efforts to ensure that this package of initiatives will increase efficiency, promote scientific and technical progress, provide benefits for final consumers and ultimately improve the overall competitiveness and sustainable development of our companies.
- i voted in favour of this resolution because it explicitly includes the need for the eu to make an effective contribution to the sustainable development of the planet, solidarity between peoples, fair trade and the eradication of poverty.
another reason why i voted for this resolution is the firmness with which it raises the need to create a 'genuine world environmental organisation' and the unequivocal defence of human rights, sustainable development and respect for the environment by putting them ahead of the current international trade model.
− the inclusion of the human rights clause, as well as the application of social and environmental standards in trade negotiations, are complex issues that divide the international community.
on the one hand, the northern countries denounce unfair competition by the emerging countries in the social and environmental fields, which leads to a distortion of competition in trade; on the other hand, the southern countries suspect that the northern countries want to hinder their economic development and resort, through the application of these rules, to a covert protectionism.
i therefore believe that helping to improve the situation of this sector is an obligation, since, as the resolution points out, it 'plays a strategic role in society, providing a public service of environmental value'.
− the envi resolution was fairly narrowly adopted (final vote 292/274/38) with the following changes/remarks: the reference to ‘without prejudice to moving to a 1.5ºc limit’ was deleted with a narrow majority (rcv amendment 14 and amendment 18: 307/304/xx); the explicit mention that lulucf and aau loopholes could nullify all annex i targets was deleted (amendment 16: 316/301/xx), but other paragraphs requiring robust rules that are designed to deliver emissions reductions from annex i remained.
the paragraph reiterating ‘the need to adopt a domestic greenhouse gas emissions reduction target for the european union of 30% by 2020 as compared with the 1990 level, in the interests of the future economic growth of the european union’ was maintained (ppe amendment 20 rejected by rcv: 298/316/xx).
all in all it remains a good resolution, containing many good messages regarding the kyoto protocol, limits to offsets and criticism of lulucf and aau loopholes as well as strong language on the historical responsibility of industrialised countries and the need to finance developing country climate efforts.
- the un climate summit in copenhagen has produced a disappointing agreement that is unable to limit global warming to below 2°c.
there is certainly no single answer, but a significant part of the problem is that many countries have not yet experimented on a large scale and remain uncertain of the economic, social or democratic benefits of an ecological transformation of their economy, despite the proliferation of studies and successful experiences on energy transition and more sustainable agriculture and transport.
− in this resolution, the ep notes that global challenges have been exacerbated by the financial crisis and its social consequences, and have triggered global debates on the need for a new regulatory approach and governance issues in the global economy, including international trade; considers that new, more effective and better implemented rules should contribute to the development of more sustainable policies, which take real account of social and environmental concerns; and notes that globalisation has increased competitive pressure between countries to attract foreign investors and competition between companies, which has sometimes led governments to tolerate serious human and social rights abuses and significant environmental damage in order to attract trade and investment.
the rapporteur, mrs guillaume ilchev, has already said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
we have created a climate of mutual trust; with the protection order we are creating a space of justice and freedom, because the victims of these crimes can be welcomed in any country without having to undergo another procedure, as co-commander teresa jiménez-becerril has said.
among other things, the creation of a committee and a technology network to promote technological cooperation seems to me extremely important - we are going to vote on a report at this part-session on energy efficiency, which is one of the key elements for an effective fight against climate change - and then issues such as the world bank becoming more involved or the official recognition of countries' actions in relation to emission reductions returning to the united nations procedure and framework also seem very positive to me.
it would be very interesting if, just as cancun has learned from copenhagen, we now learn from kyoto and achieve an international framework of reference for an agreement on the fight against climate change that is more flexible, more transparent, more effective and more inclusive.
the commission also proposes to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
− among the common points several groups agreed, ours amongst them, are the following: 1. welcomes the adoption of the strategic action plan 2010-2013 and of its partnerships, and hopes that it will contribute added value in relation to the cotonou agreement and the union for the mediterranean and that it is an expression of an ambitious approach to intercontinental relations; 2. stresses that the africa-eu joint strategy’s founding principles should be designed to support developing countries’ sustainable needs in order to fight poverty, guarantee a decent income and livelihood as well as the fulfilment of basic human rights, including social, economic and environmental rights; 3. hopes that the lessons will be learned from the difficulties which arose during the implementation of the first ‘action plan’, for 2008-2010 and hopes that the intentions expressed in principle in the final declaration by heads of state and of government will be acted on; 4. notes with interest that both the private sector and civil society, particularly from africa, could be allowed to make a far more effective contribution to the strategy than has been the case to date.
- i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the mandatory 20% energy efficiency target is important not only in terms of co2 reduction, which it is, but also in social terms.
a large part of european household expenditure is spent on energy bills.
introducing efficiency measures that reduce energy expenditure and contribute to reducing energy poverty is a socialist objective.
− this report is a powerful and timely reminder to the commission and the council of the importance of a binding energy-saving target ahead of the crucial energy summit on 4 february 2011 and as the commission prepares its energy efficiency action plan.
ambitious eu measures on energy saving and efficiency are essential if europe is to respond to the challenges of energy security and climate change.
they also make economic sense, create jobs and save consumers money on their energy bills.
until now, member states have been reneging on their pledge to reduce energy consumption by 20% by 2020, by making insufficient progress.
making the target binding will help (as in the case of renewable energy) to ensure that the eu governments actually deliver on this potential.
the report also calls for stronger measures to address the energy consumption of buildings, notably by renovating the existing building stock.
with buildings accounting for 40% of energy consumption in the eu, it is essential to tackle this sector head on.
the greens hope that the eu energy summit will also address this crucial issue.
however, this is not a sufficient answer at this time of severe challenges, when the climate of crisis in europe is affecting negatively, or even dramatically, the real economy, public finances, the labour market and the quality of life in europe.
it is necessary to meet our common challenges of restoring growth and jobs, changing the economic model and driving global sustainable development, and we must do so by securing the future of the european social model.
none of these lessons should be forgotten and both should be fully interwoven in the future of a sustainable europe.
and do we really want president barroso to deliver on his commitment to social impact and to state clearly that europe needs a new social pact, also in taxation standards, in labour standards, a model that ensures employment, equity, environmental responsibility and global development?
we should welcome the fact that the new strategic concept adds new challenges, such as terrorism, the fight against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, cyber defence and energy security.