the second revision of the cotonou agreement, which entered into force in 2000, is underway and aims to introduce a number of changes in the framework of the agreement in order to achieve the objectives set out in the agreement: poverty eradication, sustainable development and the gradual integration of the acp states into the world economy.
it should be noted that since the last amendment to the cotonou agreement in 2005, many new developments have taken place in the global environment (e.g.
financial crisis, climate change, rising food and energy prices, etc.
i fully share the rapporteur's view that all these developments in the global environment, if not adequately addressed in the process of amending the agreement, could jeopardise the achievement of the objectives of the cotonou agreement and the mdgs by 2015. it is known that the eu and acp countries have now set out in the cotonou agreement the areas and articles to be modified, which also partially take account of the above product.
i support your commitment to the creation of a common energy market, interconnecting energy grids all around europe.
i wish you would use to this end parliament’s position on external energy security and solidarity that was adopted back in 2007 and is awaiting implementation.
first of all, we expect real implementation of common european policies, especially the completion of the common energy market.
energy and environmental cooperation also needs more concrete content.
− i supported amendment 2, tabled on behalf of the ecr group, to the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in ukraine, which voices concern that the nord stream pipeline project undermines the principle of solidarity in the eu’s energy security and will be constructed to circumvent ukraine.
the eu, which is heading toward a common energy market with the implementation of an energy solidarity principle, cannot rely on a long-term relationship with a politically orientated state-owned monopoly that has already failed economically and is defying the basic eu principles of open competition, transparency and separation of production, transportation and distribution.
an effectively functioning internal market is essential to create a stable and innovative economic environment.
first of all the eu should show a determined will to develop coherent strategies in five crucial areas: common strategies for china, russia, peace in the middle east, afghanistan, and energy security.
this would be a clear waste of resources, as representatives from malta, for example, may have a much better level of expertise in relations with north african countries, cyprus with the middle east, bulgaria with turkey, poland with belarus and ukraine, the baltic states with russia and so on.
in addition to the considerable environmental changes, we must also take into account the fact that the accelerated melting of the arctic ocean has opened up the possibility of starting a race for new geothermal resources.
in cases like this, one cannot, like the spanish presidency, waste any time in reacting.
europe accounts for 41% of the world fleet, but unfortunately many third countries provide more support to their owners and shipowners than the eu member states, or even impose weaker requirements on ship safety and environmental friendliness.
europe must ensure the best working conditions for its seafarers, the safety of its ships and the improvement of the marine environment.
although maritime transport is more environmentally friendly than road or air transport, it has the potential to reduce pollution even further.
however, the main objective of intelligent transport systems is not to reduce pollution but to increase efficiency and ensure better competition.
we must therefore do everything we can to ensure the competitiveness and sustainability of this sector, while respecting the environment and the human factor.
with the aim of sustainable development in the central asian region, we must provide the interim government with expertise to implement reforms, as we have done in kosovo, macedonia and elsewhere, in addition to economic assistance.
− the future of the european maritime sector plays a significant role in the european union, in economic, social and environmental terms.
we believe that the keywords of efficiency, environmental friendliness and a level playing field will have to be the guiding principles in the maritime sector in the future.
it is therefore important that the report adopted today calls on all member states to ratify the conventions of the international maritime organisation in order to ensure the best possible conditions for seafarers, ship owners and the environment.
it poses a serious threat to the environment and human health.
the severe accidents in the past have proven that cyanide contamination can have an irreversible impact both on the environment and on human health.
– the most important topic in the discussion about the future of the europe 2020 strategy is the challenge of need and sustainability.
mr president, it is extremely welcome that the commission has outlined a forward-looking 'europe 2020 - a strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth', because for too long many european countries have followed the maxim 'come after us or we'll blow up' in the organisation of their economies and finances.
it is high time to start serious structural reforms in europe, especially in the area of social policy, because the current model of social welfare society is no longer sustainable.
the importance of mrs ţicău's report is one of the most important instruments of energy and climate policy that we have adopted in recent years.
in addition to new technologies for improving the energy efficiency of buildings, there will be an increasing demand for environmentally friendly building materials, reducing the cost of materials and waste in the construction sector, recycling construction waste and developing smart homes.
european companies, in cooperation with the european union and the member states, should therefore invest today in technologies that reduce the significant environmental impact of buildings, as buildings today consume around 40% of the eu's energy, emit 38% of the eu's co2 emissions and, in addition, the construction sector is the most resource-intensive sector of the eu economy.
for example, the directive contains a proposal that the european commission should direct more of the european union's structural funds towards financing energy efficiency in buildings.
i consider it extremely important that the current financial perspective should not be overlooked and that means should be found to finance more energy efficiency in buildings.
energy conservation is the cheapest way to produce energy, so let's use it.
the eu has set itself the objective of becoming one of the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economies in the world by 2010. a rapidly changing work environment, a knowledge-based economy and increasingly rapid technological developments are challenges facing european higher education and research today.
i hope that other member states will also be prepared to adopt measures to ensure the sustainability and competitiveness of the european economy and finance in the light of the structural changes taking place in the world economy.
alde supports a modernisation programme aimed at diversifying russia's economic environment and developing trade relations with the european union.
this objective is achievable if russia does all it can to put its economic and legal environment in order.
as regards foreign investment in russia, we want to see legal certainty here, whether in the energy sector or in any other area.
i'm a supporter of the gda because it's a price tag that gives you information about how much energy and nutrients are in a single serving of food.
in the context of the crisis, one of the main objectives of the eu in the new economic environment is to increase competitiveness and sustainability, if not to increase competitiveness.
in paragraph 34 we call for the commission to provide for an environmental impact assessment of energy infrastructure projects, but we have failed to mention that the commission has not fulfilled its duty to provide for an objective impartial environmental impact study for the nord stream project.
i have repeatedly drawn attention in the committee on transport to the usefulness and necessity of intelligent transport systems and, of course, to the impact of their use on both transport and the environment.
in summary, intelligent transport systems help us to ensure smooth and seamless traffic, to increase the safety of passengers and to preserve the environment.
mr president, the programme for the belgian presidency of the council of the european union sets out the intention to launch a debate on a white paper on sustainable transport for 2010-2020. five years ago, the european commission presented a plan for priority links in the trans-european transport networks, with rail baltica, one of thirty projects, linking helsinki to warsaw via the capitals of the baltic states.
this can be demonstrated by social, environmental or cultural aspects.
– it will be crucial to link and accommodate the eu future cohesion policy to the eu 2020 strategy, because only this link can provide for sustainable economic growth, competiveness and creation of new jobs.
at this point, the often excessive bureaucratic accountability takes more time and energy than goes to the real working-out of the projects.
first, it will be crucial to link and accommodate future cohesion policy to the eu 2020 strategy, because only this link can provide sustainable economic growth and the creation of new jobs.
often we face excessive bureaucratic accountability that takes more time and energy than goes to the working-out of the projects.
it is known that the international maritime organisation has established different requirements for sulphur emissions in different regions in accordance with annex vi to marpol.
the baltic sea, the north sea and the english channel have been declared sulphur control areas and significantly increased pollution control requirements have been imposed on these areas.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to discuss the issue of the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the context of the european union's action in the field of health.
the creation of a pan-european energy market is in the interest of all europeans.
however, in opening up the energy market, we have overlooked the issues of market transparency and integrity.
i am concerned that in a situation where hundreds of billions of euros in electricity, gas and co2 emissions are traded on the markets, there is a clear gap in supervision and regulation.
i believe that the european union energy market regulator acer, created by the third internal market package, must become the place where supervision of electricity, gas and emissions trading is carried out, and i recommend that member states bring these three markets under one regulator.
– after several dramatic experiences with energy supplies, it has become clear that energy is a key factor of eu security.
the need for a long-term strategic vision on energy is obvious.
the new proposed energy strategy aims to serve this need.
first and foremost, europe needs a coherent and harmonised internal energy market, which has to integrate different energy networks, linking them with each other.
today there are still isolated regions of the eu that depend almost one hundred per cent on external energy supplies.
i support allocating a higher proportion of the budget for the common energy policy.
developing modern and efficient energy infrastructures will need priority investments.
enhancing energy efficiency means investing more in research and development and in new energy technologies.
ladies and gentlemen, it is very welcome that we have the opportunity today to discuss energy security issues actively in the european parliament once again.
in recent years, the eu as a whole has become increasingly dependent on energy supplies from specific third countries.
the european commission has already issued its energy strategy for the eu 2011-2020 on 10 november, so it is probably too late to influence this.
i share the rapporteur's view that european cohesion policy is one of the most important policies to help increase the competitiveness of regions and ensure sustainable development.