for the first time, a un document mentions a two-degree limit, but the emission limits that various countries announced in copenhagen correspond to global warming of more than three degrees.
the most important way to lead would have been and is to tighten our emissions reduction targets to at least 30%.
our real target should be -40 percent if we're really in line with the climate science message.
if we now stop at a 20% cut in emissions, it means that the eu has meant absolutely nothing when it declared a two-degree limit for over a decade.
according to numerous studies, including those of the dutch government, a 20 percent reduction in emissions is far from the most ambitious in the world.
it would be constructive to say that we are ready for the second period of kyoto on those terms and conditions, and it would be constructive to commit ourselves to financially supporting climate action in developing countries without recycling development funds under a new heading.
we must now move from this slim result to a proper climate agreement.
we also need a new kind of climate diplomacy.
mr president, the copenhagen climate summit was a perfect pancake.
a few days before that, €5 billion in emissions trading was exposed.
when emission limits are set, the specific emissions system should be used, as in cars.
secondly, my wish and hope for the council and for the new commission is that now with the new lisbon treaty the core issue in our foreign policy would be dealt with by the trio of the president of the commission, the high representative and the climate change commissioner and allow for negotiation on the basis of a single negotiated text.
i would also say this to the future climate commissioner.
the copenhagen summit has come and gone, but why does hedegaard still believe that the eu is the leader and the global leader in climate policy?
with this self-deception, the eu continues its climate policy which is miserable and destroys jobs in the cleanest industries.
those who followed the climate debate at all knew long ago that the eu's prescriptions were not going to get us an international agreement.
they directly impact on the reduction of carbon intensity and new technology, which in time also manifests itself in a consistent reduction of emissions.
it is not good for the environment either if the cleanest industry in the world is subject to sanctions on emissions trading that no other industry is.
and, if google continues to prosper, it will prove that there is no inherent conflict between making money and acting in a sustainable and human way.
this is good from an environmental point of view.
in the baltic sea we have already been using low-sulphur oil at 0.5% for many years to protect the environment.
low sulphur levels at sea are not considered to be an environmental problem, since the main objective has been to reduce so-called urban pollution.
this is a matter of political opinion in several cases but, on the matter of biodiversity and extinctions, we cannot compromise and we cannot haggle.
the fact that half or almost the whole of the committee on fisheries is sitting here at the moment also shows that the way in which these matters are handled here in the house is not the best way, that is to say, the environment committee discusses and comes to some conclusions, and then we who are concerned with fisheries come here and discuss them.
it is based on sound scientific evidence and there is no reason to change the way the committee on the environment views this matter.
mr president, i supported amendment no 43, which called for the recent climate scandals to be taken into account.
i've been concerned about climate change for the better part of my ten-year career as a member of the house of representatives.
in the context of emissions trading legislation, i have been actively seeking a climate policy for europe that is not only ambitious but also sensible, so that we do not simply move emissions from one place to another.
the worst part is that the eu is not following what is happening in climate research right now.
the falsification of the ipcc report is such a serious problem that we should demand the resignation of rajendra pachauri as head of the ipcc and reassess what we know about the progress of man-made climate change and the effectiveness of our policy actions in response.
i warmly welcome the recent debt-relief pledges to haiti and urge all the donor countries to help with long-term and sustainable reconstruction.
venezuelans are also suffering from completely unnecessary power and water cuts in latin america's most energy-rich country.
for the liberal group it was important that we take an ecosystem approach when we make the reform.
the renewal of fisheries partnership agreements on a more sustainable basis is an integral part of the new common fisheries policy.
the commission's green paper proposes that the ecosystem and the precautionary principle be taken into account as the cornerstones of the reform of the fisheries policy.
the policy must focus on a truly sustainable fishing for each species, for which each population needs its own management and conservation strategy.
we should now start thinking more seriously about how we can build fish stocks in a sustainable way and ensure that we can fish in the future too.
as we have heard in this house, the so-called tobin tax has been dammed in recent years, the eighth as a result of the economic crisis and the increasingly worrying discussions on climate change.
otherwise, we risk getting stuck in a discussion about a tax that is practically unworkable, while failing to find opportunities and solutions to find adequate funding for development work and efforts to combat climate change.
as our needs are global as well – such as the development agenda, the millennium development goals or tackling climate change – to me it is more than natural that financial transaction taxation should be the first attempt at global taxation.
while there are slight benefits in terms of slightly curbing most speculative transactions, in my opinion the biggest benefits relate to entering the new field of taxation, a global mechanism and gathering resources – not so much in the financial sector, but especially for our european and global development and environmental needs.
this is probably a misconception: the test could also serve specifically to promote social and environmental objectives.
if the eu is to maintain its leading role in climate protection, we must raise our target to at least -30%, which you have already justified.
mr president, i thank commissioner hedegaard for showing that he understands the fundamental dilemma of climate policy: the eu cannot reduce alone, because then not only will our own results be wasted, but we risk the environment as a whole suffering.
if european production cannot survive in europe because of the high cost of emissions trading, and if therefore steel or paper is produced where it is produced with higher emissions than in europe, emissions as a whole will increase.
the basis for this requires a different climate strategy, a consistent cut in specific emissions.
it's a decarbonization that is independent of economic ratios, that always rewards the reducer, unlike our current emissions trading model.
i ask whether it makes sense to continue trading emissions beyond 2012 when it now seems that there are no emissions trading systems in the world that can be linked to ours.
when we started drafting the emissions trading directive less than ten years ago, the whole system was marketed to us as preparation for global emissions trading.
the experience has certainly come at a cost, and the environmental benefits are by no means clear.
that arctic treasure chest that is opening up is full of economic opportunities, but it is also full of enormous risks to the environment, to security, to the fate of indigenous peoples.
global warming opens up new sea lanes and allows oil and gas resources to be exploited in ways that damage the environment.
climate change is occurring in the arctic more rapidly than anywhere else, and the arctic has been likened to a canary in a mine.
this melting accelerates climate change because it reduces the reflectivity of the earth, or albedo.
it releases methane from the tundra and may even release methane from the seabed, which further accelerates climate change.
the melting also releases into the environment toxins that have accumulated over decades.
the eu should now be a consistent driver of sustainable development.
it is no good putting a few pretty words about the environment and indigenous peoples on the decision-making process, but at the same time taking real action that risks irreversible environmental degradation and violates indigenous rights.
when these three can all fit into the arctic and in harmony, we will have a sustainable arctic policy and we can also exploit logistics and economics, but with respect for both nature, people and animals.
the arctic council, for its part, has focused on environmental and research cooperation, but alongside agreements focusing on the exploitation of these natural resources, there has been an undeniable need to develop international management of the region, and the eu can also play a role in this.
the common arctic policy offers enormous opportunities for the european union as a whole, in terms of security, the environment, energy, transport and indigenous peoples.
− mr president, sustainable and effective low-carbon technologies are the core essentials in the huge task of decarbonisation we in the eu, and globally, are facing.
if we are serious with our mission, it is evident that we need all forms of low-carbon technologies, including sustainable nuclear power.
this recital may have had negative implications on the concept of "sustainable low-carbon technologies" suggesting that nuclear is not part of that.
the fact however is that we in the eu can't afford not to use it if we want to take climate change seriously.
until renewable energies really can deliver effective results and secure constant energy flow, it is such low-carbon technologies which we must rely on.
the key indicator in the search for remedies is the sustainability and deficit of public finances.
the sustainability gap indicates how much the tax rate should be raised or the expenditure rate should be lowered to put the public finances on a sustainable basis in the long term.
in order to increase public revenues, it is essential to achieve growth and employment and to increase the productivity of public services, as well as to implement structural measures that can, among other things, guarantee the sustainability of pension systems.
europe must be self-sufficient, and this is also important for the prevention of climate change, because short transport distances and local food are the best measures to prevent climate change.
agriculture must be ecologically sustainable and we have a lot of work to do in this respect.
the world's demand for food is growing rapidly, as climate change reduces the world's arable land, and consumers' demands for food quality are also increasing.
investing in sustainable forest management and better use of wood must also be seen as an important part of eu climate policy.
maintaining diverse and active rural areas is important for several reasons, not least because of growing global demand for food products and environmentally sustainable tourism.
therefore i do not support a move to ban the use of cyanide totally but i would certainly encourage strict environmental controls with the best available technology and closed processes.
there have been no problems because environmental matters have been handled in such a way that legislation is up to date, processes are closed and waste is disposed of.
we must make a joint effort at european level to ensure that mining can continue in an environmentally sustainable way.
this is an important issue for both security and biodiversity.
it is very important that we find out how much this carbon footprint is and that we find out what it costs.
it's about the environment, it's about cost.
my speech concerns the report by mr liem hoang ngoc on sustainable public finances.
two units were closed in accordance with the contract in 2002 and the other two in 2006. following substantial investments and independent investigations, these units met all safety criteria and, according to the council's atomic energy review group, no further monitoring was required.
however, the rest of the units were shut down as agreed, the area suffered power cuts, and as a result of the replacement plants, we had an increase in greenhouse gas emissions.
- mr president, i would like to draw attention to paragraph 14 of the report on the achievement of the millennium development goals, which calls for the eu to provide comprehensive financing to help poor countries to combat the effects of climate change, and stresses that this financing must be additional to existing development aid commitments.
climate change is a fact that we must learn to live with.
one of the major errors of the environmental movement is that it refused to discuss adaptation for a long time.
the creation of the climate fund for developing countries can be credited to copenhagen.
however, the importance of climate change as one of the problems facing developing countries should not be overstated.
it seems that climate change is cannibalizing all the other problems in our imagination.
people have been conditioned to believe that by reducing emissions, all other problems will be sort of erased.
we must ensure that the vaccination and education of hundreds of millions of children, or the fight against erosion and other solvable environmental problems, are not jeopardised in the name of climate.
the best climate action is to help people out of poverty, because poverty is what drives people to make decisions that are bad for the environment.
i therefore think it is very important that the report explicitly calls for money for climate change and adaptation not to be excluded from other eu development aid commitments.
first of all, the ecological state of the baltic sea is alarming.
i hope that a joint coordinated study will help to raise awareness of these issues and will also help us to develop better and smarter methods for all sectors, but especially for agriculture, because fertilisers that flow into rivers and seas are a waste of resources for farmers.
secondly, i think that this is, as mentioned here already, one of the crucial cornerstones in environmental politics and international negotiations where we have to strive for a better united policy within the european union.
secondly, to ensure that any whaling has a sound scientific basis and is based on the precautionary principle – haphazard, negotiated quotas are no basis for sustainable whaling; that restrictions on the trading of all whale products are maintained and strengthened; that the reduction in the number of whales taken for non-indigenous purposes from current levels is strengthened and phased out to zero; that scientific whaling outside ivc control comes to an end; and, last but not least, that any additional cost for monitoring, control and enhancement are met by whaling nations.
i think that whales are great symbols of our environmental consciousness and a signal for how we are treating our environment in general.
i do not think that any other issues such as human rights would be put aside, to be regarded as an issue of national sovereignty and interest and a matter of cultural taste, and neither should environmental issues or animal welfare.
hunting whales is cruel, it is not necessary for food, and it is threatening our biodiversity.
but above all: the condition for raising the reduction target has always been the widening of the emissions reduction front and a comprehensive global agreement.
anyone who knows anything about the matter will understand that otherwise the reductions will be wasted and will only benefit the producers of the marketed electricity, not the environment.
i myself have long thought that the quantitative figures we have set are not necessarily the most effective way of reducing emissions.
mr president, it is very important that we strive to create a sustainable future for transport and thus ensure that transport emissions are also lower in the future, despite the fact that at present, when we look at the whole, transport is a small factor, less than 10%.
but all in all, it's important that when we create a sustainable future, it happens across all sectors.
in this respect, it is necessary to ensure that the same rules apply throughout the european union when savings are made and a sustainable future for transport is envisaged.
it is very important that we can also invest in research, technology and innovation in order to find ways of transporting people and also to reduce emissions from transport in the future.
it is now very important to create pathways, opportunities for young people to gain access to better employment and thus to build a more sustainable future and a more hopeful outlook.
mr president, this directive on industrial emissions does indeed introduce stricter limits on particulate matter, nitrogen oxides and sulphur dioxide.
this is at least necessary for both human health and the environment.
the second regrettable aspect of this report is that we are not making progress on emissions and competence in the field of soil.
i think it is particularly important to note that this directive does not, of course, prevent a member state from applying stricter and better legislation, including on greenhouse gases.
i hope that in future, when the revision of the directive becomes relevant, the commission will also include co2 emissions in integrated environmental monitoring, because that is the right and effective way of dealing with the matter.
mr president, unfortunately this important legislative reform was overshadowed by the climate and energy package in autumn 2008. that is a pity, because this is a directive of enormous importance both for air quality and for the eu industry.
i did everything i could to make sure that this significance was not negative, that it was not expensive, without the environmental benefits that it brings.
the premature closure of installations would be a cost that would not be covered by the environmental benefits.
it is also good that the green-led co2 emission limits have not been exceeded, because the overlapping controls with emissions trading are already too much.
i regret that the council did not agree to list this regulation under the environmental crime directive.
i strongly urge the commission to update the directive as soon as possible to include the latest environmental legislation.
20% of global greenhouse gas emissions are caused by deforestation, a large proportion of which is illegal logging.
they also destroy biodiversity.
mr president, this is a major step forward in terms of responsible use of resources, international responsibility, climate policy, biodiversity and human living conditions.
the result achieved is certainly better than the disadvantages of the compromise, but as rapporteur satu hassik has pointed out, i would like to stress that the main shortcoming here is the lack of sanctions, the absence of sanctions at european level and minimum level, and also the fact that the regulation has not been incorporated at this stage in the environmental offences directive, either in respect of illegal logging or the related trade.
at the same time, as my colleague riikka manner has just said, this work is unfortunately forgetting the fact that we have a very sustainable forestry production and forestry in northern europe, particularly in the nordic countries.
they are necessary to ensure food security and also sustainable development.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
- having regard to the report of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection (a7-0210/2010), after reading the resolution, any person with a clear conscience will be able to see why the subject is stirring strong emotions in europe, so i do not feel it necessary to go into the wording of the resolution in this explanatory statement.
a number of major legislative initiatives such as the history of the emissions trading directive showed that there are serious shortcomings in impact assessment.
in particular, when drafting environmental legislation, care must be taken: a problem solved in one place can create a new problem in another.
we have no time to waste: he is 80 years old, and i hear from his son, who has visited parliament, that his father’s health is deteriorating.
these will hopefully improve security of supply and diversify supply options, as will the development of efficient renewable energy.
finally, i would like to support the rapporteur's proposal that the commission be asked to report on the environmental impact of medicines and to assess whether there is a need for further changes to eu legislation on medicines in the near future.
the traditional industries, energy and the europe 2020 priorities such as research and development are key to these specific areas.
in finland, my home country, lapland, eastern finland, the central parts of finland are sparsely populated, but they are part of finland's security of supply, part of the whole of finland, where it is possible to carry out commercially sustainable activities.
fourthly, mr president, we need cross-border cooperation between regions, particularly in economic and environmental projects.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, aviation emissions have grown faster than any other major business sector.
if societies as a whole reduce greenhouse gas emissions as they should, but aviation emissions continue to grow at the current rate, in 20 to 30 years aviation would use up all the emission allowances available to europe.
at kyoto, icao was tasked with creating an international system to limit aviation emissions.
that is why the eu decided to set up its own aviation emissions trading scheme.
the real objective is, of course, a global system, but the eu's aviation emissions trading alone also has a global impact.
flights to and from europe account for a significant proportion of global aviation emissions.
we can understand his difficulty in getting climate legislation through his own country's congress, but we cannot accept that the us administration is trying to block eu climate action.
we cannot, after all, give the united states a veto over our own action to limit aviation emissions.
the same problem also concerns emissions from international shipping and i would remind the commission of the matters we have agreed on in our own climate legislation.
commissioners hahn and andor, are you concerned about this general climate of austerity?
the second point is that you, commissioner, said that red sludge does not meet the criteria for hazardous waste and that our legislation is in order.
criteria for hazardous waste must be specified in such a way that high alkalinity, high ph value is one of the criteria for hazardous waste.
we need to strengthen the strategy for growth, so that in this environment it is sustainable and socially responsible, and we need better governance mechanisms for eu 2020. we need more and better european economic governance for national actions to support this line, including the financial transaction tax that i urge the commission to look at very carefully, including in a european context.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr president, for the excellent work he has done, and in particular for the correct approach he has taken to the imo decision on sulphur emissions.
the imo decision was taken in haste, without environmental assessments and without cost assessments.
it would be a bad decision for the environment and a bad decision for future european jobs.
- mr president, i am very concerned about the growing climate of fear which is being directed at human rights defenders in russia.
mr president, climate policy has been a key element in eu-us relations for many years.
it is true that the united states took the world's leading position on climate policy by refusing to ratify the kyoto protocol.
but time has shown that the whole agreement is ineffective and a wrong way to solve the complex problem of climate change.
the path to much more promise and visions has been taken by the big emitters, who are committed to strong technological cooperation and the development of clean energy.
the u.s. is not going to the carbon market.
obama said recently that the most important thing is to do the right things that are useful, no matter what we think about climate change.
these beneficial actions include investing in clean energy and improving energy self-sufficiency.
on the issue of emissions trading, mr obama said: 'it's just a means to an end, not an end, and there are other ways to 'lick the cat'.
is europe now the climate policy freak who doesn't see the situation and doesn't learn from its mistakes?
we're cutting jobs and raising energy prices, doing everything the hard way instead of doing the sensible things.
the prevention of pollution is a good thing, as is the investment in clean energy, energy self-sufficiency, forestry.
it was marketed to us as a preparation for international emissions trading, which never came.
the company has also been able to establish a link between the environment and security, which is recognised in development policy.
it is the only long-term and sustainable way of doing so, which was also the view of our group on the matter.
despite the beautiful climate speeches, europe is still clinging to its carbon-heavy past when it adopts this report.
on the basis of the eu 2020 strategy, the union would like to move rapidly towards a low-emission future based on renewable energy sources.
it is a sign that fossil fuels are increasingly supported in many ways over renewable energy sources.
this is despite the fact that our climate goals would require a policy that is the exact opposite.
i too am concerned that we must ensure that stocks are sustainable and that fishing is indeed sustainable in the baltic sea region.
in the baltic sea in particular, i am concerned about the natural disasters and that these natural disasters could also be reinforced there and that more attention would indeed be paid to the sustainable fishing in the baltic sea.
coal is currently one of the worst fossil fuels, indeed, killing hundreds of thousands of lives a year through various emissions.
i therefore hope that we in europe will be able to gradually phase out coal as a source of energy and switch to renewable sources.
i understand that it requires a certain transition period in those areas where coal production is a major employment issue, but the direction should be towards renewable technology and renewable energy in principle.
we must support the procurement and production of renewable energy, we cannot press the gas and brake at the same time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with all those who have supported the eu's reduction of emissions to 30%.
it is not only about the future of mankind, but also about our own interests, that is, how to remain competitive in the energy revolution that is under way.
to be a credible climate leader, the eu should be driving real climate protection at cancún, not creating loopholes.
unfortunately, the eu seems to be acting differently on the rules for calculating co2 emissions from forests.
this new 'hot air' could represent between three and five per cent of all industrial countries' emissions, the same size category as the combined emissions reduction commitment of all industrial countries under the kyoto protocol by 2012. another weak point in the eu's approach is the outsourcing of emission reductions to developing countries through the cdm mechanism.
it is shortsighted, but also unwise from the point of view of fair competition, if we use the cdm to support industries in china, for example, which complain here about the risk of carbon leakage.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank commissioner hedegaard for her very good and committed work on these climate matters within the eu and at global level.
we know that the challenge is going to be ahead of us globally in all countries, so action to prevent climate change is always profitable, from the environmental and also the business standpoint.
we have quite a range of studies showing that the eu could cut its co2 emissions by 30% or even 40% by 2020 in a way that would be economically viable and economically profitable.
this would require, first of all, stopping harmful subsidies like the eur 6 billion yearly in europe for fossil fuels and more stringent, ets legislative support, resource efficiency and energy efficiency and tools such as a more stringent eco-design directive.
i think that just by showing the way ourselves, we can convince the others that (a) we are serious, (b) this is profitable and (c) we are doing it for the environment and for the success of the european economy.
it is important that the european energy strategy for the next ten years be taken into account.
it is also very important that we invest in research and in the new uses of various environmental technologies.
innovation in this area is indeed needed if we are to build a europe that is ever cleaner and more self-sufficient in energy.
i do not want to see the future of european energy as carbon black.
it is not a sustainable criterion alone when we look at remote areas in the european union, and it is therefore important that sparsity of population and long distances are also taken into account.
i would like to thank commissioner hedegaard for his work at the cancun climate summit.
the eu is also committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
the eu's climate leadership is now being tested in practice by whether we are prepared to tighten our emissions target from -20% to -30%.
this is the best way to ensure that we get what we need next year in durban, a comprehensive international climate agreement.
after cancún, the argument that the eu is alone with its climate goals is clearly outdated.
however, it is important for the eu to face the facts: nothing has been done to reduce emissions and no reduction commitments have been made.
i would now like to challenge all those companies that are in the global business and think they are exposed to carbon leakage: tell achim steiner and similar influential leaders of organizations about your financial realities.
please provide clear figures on the direct and indirect cost increases caused by emissions trading if you disagree.
it's about realizing that the climate leap is about to come to an end, and climate change is going to become the normal, everyday thing.
let us get back to the point: a sensible comprehensive approach to environmental protection.
in the next budget lines, i think parliament should make sure that the eu's ability to increase its own financial contribution and also to support material efficiency and climate change policy with its own budgetary policy choices, and thus also the europe 2020 strategy and the greener economy, is of paramount importance.
i also voted in favour of this report by mr bendsen on energy efficiency.
the european union is also committed to energy efficiency and savings and to the use of renewable energy sources through the europe 2020 programme.
of course, it is desirable that energy efficiency should not be confined to europe but should extend beyond that.
it is clear that energy efficiency and saving must not in any case become an obstacle to competitiveness, but we must also ensure that we can compete on the world market and thus also ensure the well-being and competitiveness of europe.
mr president, i voted for a more binding and ambitious line in this energy efficiency action programme and i am very pleased with the final position of this parliament on this matter.
the primary means of combating climate change is not simply through international commitments or declarations, but through practical means to achieve emission reduction targets.
the key priority here is to improve energy efficiency.
to achieve this, we need a very broad and comprehensive policy for energy efficiency, which is binding and, where appropriate, also economically incentivised and sanctioned.
- mr president, when i voted against the mandatory 20% energy saving target, i - like most of my political group - did not take a position on the essence of energy saving, but on the way in which it is being promoted.
the importance of improving energy efficiency is undeniable.
on the other hand, i do not think that the efforts to solve the eu's climate, energy security and supply problems are based on a sustainable and wise basis.
in the famous 20/20/20 climate and energy package, the energy saving target was the only non-binding target, as it was supposed to be strengthened alongside other mandatory targets such as emission cuts and the increase of renewable energy sources.
the energy saving objective was not achieved in the way we wanted, but now rather than burdening our community with yet another binding target, on top of other binding targets and not knowing how to achieve the target, we should look at whether those other targets were set correctly in the first place.
in pursuing emission reductions and renewable energy targets, our member states and their businesses are under pressure, with the temptation to make short-term and unsustainable decisions growing overwhelming.
if we add one more constraint to it, we will find ourselves in a situation where the eu is literally cutting its own branch, while already causing only a massive transfer of revenue without any further benefit to the climate, the environment or our energy security.
the global industrial environment is deteriorating, the burning of wood is unsustainable in the name of renewable energy sources, and at the same time the problem itself, the emissions of carbon dioxide, is growing radically beyond our borders.
it is time to take sensible and sustainable action, not short-sighted force-feeding without sensible concrete.
when we know our background and our history, then we can also build a sustainable future.