it's a first, so i was just checking to make sure the procedure was correct, and in the meantime... mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention at the beginning of this year, which the un has declared the 'world year of biodiversity', to the failure of the european strategy for 2004-2010 to combat the loss of biodiversity.
the state of biodiversity is the thermometer of the state of the health of the planet, of the state of our development system, and the crisis is accelerating.
i therefore hope that today and tomorrow the european union and the european parliament will be able to rise to the challenge and set ambitious, cross-cutting targets for the fight against biodiversity loss in all sectoral policies in 2010. we must act, there is still time, and 2010 is the year of all possibilities.
we must ensure that it is properly targeted towards sustainable political and physical reconstruction.
our group hopes that the forthcoming conference in montreal will effectively prepare an international conference on the repair, reconstruction and sustainable development of haiti with the people of haiti.
there is no shortage of projects: political, administrative, economic, social and environmental.
the land is laid waste, its heritage plundered, its people deeply divided.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the revision of the cotonou agreement gives us an opportunity to learn from the crises we are facing: the economic and financial crisis, the social and food crisis, climate change and the energy challenge, the persistence of extreme poverty.
the european union's trade, fisheries and agriculture policies must be designed in a coherent way to ensure sustainable development, combat poverty and guarantee a decent standard of living and income for all.
it is not a question of imposing a model, but of building, with these countries, their development, which must be sustainable development.
from this point of view, it is very important that this revision should allow us to take account of the new elements that have emerged in the last five years: the fight against climate change, technology transfers, aid for the development of renewable energy, the fight against food crises, and therefore a greater emphasis in our cooperation on agriculture, food sovereignty, the fight against financial deregulation, good tax governance and the fight against tax havens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the economic, social, climate and energy sectors are the main priorities of the spanish presidency and will rightly receive the full attention of europe.
that is why mr van rompuy's first decision, to convene a european council on the economy and the climate and, of course, now also on the strategy for haiti - you have spoken about it; i believe that europe must show its heart and know-how and that you must intervene to make sure that you are more present at council level in haiti.
the epp believes that the way out of the crisis and the creation of jobs cannot be achieved by increasing public spending but by creating an economic, fiscal and ecological environment favourable to enterprises, especially small and medium-sized enterprises.
social cohesion - which has been severely tested by the crisis and the scandals of bonuses and bonuses for the incompetence of certain managers - cannot be built on craftsmanship but on sustainable growth that benefits the greatest number.
because one of the reasons for the crises, the ecological crisis - because we don't have a crisis, but crises - is a growth in production that has been destructive at the same time.
the second point to be considered is what you have said about growth and a pact, for example, against energy dependence.
one of the pillars of the fight against energy dependence is energy saving.
we must develop a grand pact in europe, a european investment in energy savings.
housing is about saving energy, it's about investing billions, and it's about creating jobs at the same time.
so, remember, renewable, yes, but renewable with energy savings.
and here i am asking the european union to decide now not 20 per cent but 30 per cent energy savings by 2020. we can do it, if we want.
a european tramway project is also a solution to the climate problems associated with traffic.
a european social pact and a social and ecological pact.
put the companies, put the unions, put the big environmental groups around a table.
social protection will only work with environmental protection.
this is the new thing, and by the way, gentlemen of the right, it was one of mr sarkozy's good ideas in france, it was called the grenelle of the environment.
i think it is time to make an environmental brussels where we bring all the social partners and the main representatives of environmental organizations around a table.
in the face of this, our group believes that trade should be a tool for achieving objectives such as job creation, reducing inequalities and sustainable development.
to introduce binding social and environmental standards into our agreements?
mr president, mr prime minister, first of all i would like to thank mr zapatero for bringing back the ambition, the political perspective and also the energy, at a time when the european union is having to bounce back from the crisis and after the failure of copenhagen.
i expect the commission and the presidency to put the creation of more and better jobs, the fight against social exclusion and sustainable development at the heart of the 2020 strategy.
i appreciated the speech of the prime minister of the kingdom of spain and, in particular, the balance between the economic, social and environmental aspects.
i share the report's views on the need to adapt the use of this privileged instrument with the acp countries in the light of the current crises such as climate change, soaring food and fuel prices, the financial crisis, and the extreme poverty of africa.
the priority given to renewable energy, the obligation for multinational companies operating in acp countries to declare profits and taxes, the integration of the concept of food sovereignty and the criticism of the outsourcing of the management of migration flows by europe are all proposals that we support.
this is the case with the need to take into account the situation of the world's poorest countries, in view of their specificities with regard to climate change, democracy and human rights, the flight of their elites, corruption, and the specificities of their economies, especially in agricultural matters.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am here today to share with you my impressions of the outcome of the copenhagen summit and the challenges it poses both for the european union and for the spanish rotating presidency in the first half of 2010. the european union's environment ministers reflected on these issues last weekend and i must say that there is broad agreement on the will to make further progress, particularly on three issues: building on the outcome of the summit, with a view to making it operational as soon as possible; strengthening its elements within the united nations; working towards our global emission reduction targets.
the document adopted has the personal involvement of a large number of heads of state and government and leaders of regional groups, representing the will of countries whose emissions account for more than 80% of those produced on a global scale.
the emerging economies, on the other hand, will take concrete and verifiable actions to substantially reduce their emissions growth: the solidarity financing, aimed at supporting immediate and medium-term actions in the fight against climate change, the elements aimed at guiding new governance schemes, as well as mechanisms that support technological development and the reduction of emissions due to deforestation.
we will need to combine the environment council's leadership in negotiating and designing climate change policies with enhanced external action capabilities.
we must also link the environmental task with our authorities' reflections on economic and innovation policy, and strengthen the coherence of our climate objectives with our model of development and well-being.
the copenhagen agreement, by including all those who must reduce emissions, is making progress in the area of comparability of efforts, comparability demanded by the european union, but we still do not know the extent of the commitments of the others.
we want to develop a financial architecture capable of underpinning our solidarity commitments with third countries in the green climate action fund in copenhagen and, alongside that, drive forward the progress on accounting rules, the response to reducing emissions from deforestation and on technological cooperation.
in addition, we must have our own policies to meet our national and community emission reduction targets, promote innovation and the intelligent use of energy, integrate adaptation measures into sectoral policies and ensure the consistency of our external action.
in all this we want to work closely with the commission and parliament, with the aim of building the world's most advanced region in the fight against climate change and the least carbon intensive, the best prepared to face the challenges posed by climate change and the most effective in making it a powerful driver of innovation and competitiveness.
the policy of combating climate change is one of the main hallmarks of the european model.
we have been pioneers in integrating this principle into our proposals for fairer and more sustainable development, not only economically but also socially and environmentally, knowing that in this way we are strengthening international security.
the european union, as a strong supporter of the role of the united nations in solving global issues, will also have to work in other contexts, bilateral or multilateral, formal or informal, helping to better understand the opportunities, listening to our partners, collaborating in the consolidation of sectoral responses, consistent with the needs of climate change.
the adoption of the lisbon treaty and the entry into operation of the new institutions must be fully exploited, systematically incorporating the main messages of the fight against climate change into our relations with third countries.
we cannot waste the political momentum created in copenhagen, nor allow our aspirations, nor those of the international community, to deteriorate.
− mr president, let me thank you on behalf of the commission for the chance to discuss the outcome of the copenhagen conference on climate change and the follow-up to the copenhagen accord.
i believe we share the view that the result of copenhagen falls badly short of our goal of an ambitious and legally binding agreement, which would be necessary to limit climate change to below 2°c.
this is extremely disappointing for all of us who have fought for years and years for concrete policy decisions to reverse climate change.
on the one hand – to find something positive – the copenhagen accord at least recognises the need to limit climate change to below 2°c.
looking ahead, the next step will be to ensure that this accord will at least become operational and will pave the way for a new climate treaty, which must be agreed on urgently in the course of this year.
in this respect, we need to explore ways of setting up a copenhagen green climate fund.
we must also strengthen alliances with countries and regions who share our vision of a successful outcome in the international climate negotiations.
to conclude, we have huge challenges before us to ensure unity at the european level, to engage strategically with key external partners and to maintain our full commitment to multilateral climate action, but there are many lessons to be learned from cop15.
either we take determined and united action for europe’s ecological, economic and political revival, or we risk economic stagnation and political irrelevance.
it must be firm, first of all, because it is imperative that we not only maintain our targets, but increase them and go as far as 30% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
we must accelerate our industrial transition to a green economy, focused on energy efficiency, clean and sober processes, renewable energy, new syntheses between information technology and environmental technologies, because the battle that started in copenhagen is also that of industry and industry leadership in the 21st century.
we have to be innovative, innovative in carbon markets by imposing a floor price, innovative in financing modalities.
without my group being involved, i personally think that the question of a border carbon tax should be raised.
and then we have to restore confidence in africa by enriching the fund without reusing public aid funds by baptizing them as "carbon" funds.
in the end, we have to make a considerable effort so that we can maintain this will that we have to be the world's leaders on climate change.
mr president, madam minister, i was very surprised by your complacency about the european union's climate action.
but 20 percent is simply doing less in the next 10 years than we have done in the last 10 years, it's reducing europe's climate effort.
it's not just absurd for the climate, when scientists tell us we need to get to 40 percent, but it's absurd for our economy, it's absurd for our jobs.
so, madam minister, please do not reduce european climate ambition to the lowest common denominator, to the speeches of president barroso, who does not want to move from the 20%, or to the speeches of italy and poland who will soon deny the reality of climate change.
mr president, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, while copenhagen was a failure, the mobilisation of non-state actors has been exceptional and has brought about a genuine global solidarity for climate justice.
finally, we must recognize that we have very little time left to act before the consequences of climate change become irreversible.
secondly, it has made it possible to obtain financial commitments for emerging countries to help them precisely to combat global warming.
we can, and we should, continue to excel in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, because, to be honest, europe has already been extremely virtuous.
they have therefore shown themselves to be extremely virtuous and very committed to environmental protection.
the question of the introduction of a carbon tax at the european union's borders will have to be asked, because we cannot abandon our companies and therefore our jobs, in a context of totally unfair competition, to countries which do not respect nor have the same standards in terms of environmental protection and the reduction of greenhouse gases.
i therefore consider it absolutely necessary - and i agree with my colleague corinne lepage - to raise the question of the implementation of a carbon tax at the european union's borders at some point.
secondly, i was quite pleased at the hearings that commissioner tajani did not rule out the possibility of an impact study on the possible possibility of imposing this carbon tax at the borders of the european union.
mr president, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, the importance of the issue of climate change is beyond dispute.
the copenhagen conference has emerged in the eyes of the world as a unique opportunity for world leaders to witness, act and correct the effects of this process of climate change.
the european union was at the forefront of this forum, not only because of our bold legislation on limiting the impact of our activities on the climate, but also because europe represents a union of countries that can really make a difference.
brazil has just passed a law that aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by nearly 39% by 2020, in line with its commitments.
many others have also shown high ambitions in terms of greenhouse gas emission reduction targets.
in addition, it is also worth noting the very positive point that the consensus reached on the urgency of a mechanism to reduce emissions from deforestation.
the meeting of our environment ministers in seville has not been successful, and our leaders have shown themselves to be uncertain, hesitant, and we remain divided on our objectives.
i hope that mrs hedegaard, with her proposals and commitments to the committee on the environment, will be able to raise the level of ambition of the european union.
there was, in fact, a gap between the rhetoric about a european union wanting to be the world leader in the fight against climate change and europe's leadership in the final negotiations.
europe can no longer accept a situation where certain imported products do not comply with environmental constraints.
the situation created by the failure of copenhagen therefore creates uncertainty about the future international rules of operation in terms of reducing carbon emissions, which is particularly damaging for our companies which have to face large investments.
it must support a genuine european industrial policy because that is the real challenge in the fight against climate change.
the first question is: during the six months of your presidency, will you bring back to the negotiating table the introduction of a tobin-style carbon tax on financial transactions?
and then, secondly, do you want to put back on the table a more binding list of carbon quotas, of carbon leakage?
are you prepared to consider a legal instrument which would make it possible to hold parent companies accountable for the behaviour of their subsidiaries in other countries of the world when they violate their obligations in terms of the environment, respect for human rights, respect for workers' rights?
firstly, because it is a country with a european perspective and, secondly, because it is a large country with an increasing strategic importance from the point of view of energy supply and it is also a country of undoubted economic and, of course, political importance.
the tense political climate has also been fuelled by celebrations in the wake of the return of pkk members and sympathisers from northern iraq.
but we could also talk about sawyer maclouf, fahem boukadous, convicted, one for speaking about the environmental conditions in his country, and the other for workers' protests in his country.
well, this management is anti-social, it is against the territories of the european union and it is generating enormous waste today, as we see at toyota, where hundreds of thousands of cars have to be overhauled.
the reality in the world is that europe is not up to the economic crisis, the ecological crisis and the financial crisis.
at a time when we want europe to defend its values - solidarity, social justice - and when we want europe to be able to integrate social rights, environmental rights, the defence of human rights and trade union rights into its trade agreements, it is clear that the commission has no other proposal to make than agreements which consider that there is only the market and trade as an end in itself, which is unacceptable to my political family.
it must remain itself, a champion of openness to ideas and people, a pioneer in the fight against global warming, but it must also arm itself for competition.
but at the same time, we must do more to deal with external challenges: security and defence, but also commercial, technological or industrial standards and environmental standards.
if you want to make progress on climate change, if you want europe to go beyond the triple 20, if you go towards 30%, you will have the cooperation of the whole group of european greens.
what response to the social and climate emergency?
the barroso ii commission, as its election as president has shown, is a continuation of the previous commissions whose neoliberal policies led the eu into the situation of lasting economic, social and environmental crisis that it now finds itself in.
i am elected to build the europe of the equitable distribution of the wealth produced and the ecological planning that the peoples need.
in this context, greece is expected to adopt a comprehensive structural reform programme aimed at increasing the effectiveness of the public administration, stepping up pension and health-care reform, improving labour-market functioning and the effectiveness of the wage bargaining system, enhancing product market functioning and the business environment and maintaining banking and financial sector stability.
the integrated surveillance mechanism, together with the willingness of the authorities to tackle the problems, is the guardian of a successful implementation of fiscal consolidation measures and structural reforms that will put greece back on a sustainable path.
by saving tuna, we are protecting a dangerously prized species, but we are also encouraging the maintenance of a more balanced, more sustainable fishing activity, a fishing activity for our internal market and a job-creating one.
the policy of sustainability of our economic activities must be concrete, sometimes even unpopular in certain sectors, but i hope that the commission and the council do not lose sight of the adjustments necessary to implement these measures.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the proposal by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety to include bluefin tuna in annex i to cites is too radical.
this amendment will achieve what we all want: the sustainability of our coastal artisanal fisheries, particularly in the mediterranean.
i had the opportunity to meet the namibian minister for environment and tourism two weeks ago.
for the greens/efa group mr president, 2010 is the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion, and it is in this context that i hope we will adopt mr van nistelrooij's report, which is a major step forward in improving the living conditions of the disadvantaged by making housing rehabilitation and construction projects and projects to combat energy poverty in all member states eligible for community aid through the erdf.
parliament will have to assess projects carried out before the renewal of these funds in 2013 and be involved in the development of the future regulation setting the eligibility criteria, in particular in terms of transparency, in order to ensure that all vulnerable populations are the real beneficiaries and can live in dignity in a sustainable way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on amendment no 21 which i tabled, i should like to begin by thanking all my colleagues for supporting me in tabled ing an amendment which lays down the principle of the implementation of a carbon tax at the borders of the european union.
indeed, many scientists believe that the famous exponential global warming curve in the shape of a hockey stick is actually a graphic fabrication.
it is probably caused by astronomical phenomena and not by the supposed greenhouse gases.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european network of experts in the field of the environment, and for the establishment of a european network of experts in the field of the environment.
this will enable an integrated and sustainable approach to be established at european union level.
the regions concerned will be able to replace the unhealthy housing of socially excluded communities and develop comprehensive, integrated and sustainable solutions to their housing problems.
i also regret that the amendment tabled by my group to introduce a 0.01% tax on financial transactions, which would finance the climate effort of the poorest and most directly affected countries, amounting to eur 20 billion per year, could not be adopted.
finally, to have a say in such international negotiations, the eu will have to learn to speak with one voice, so as not to miss any more opportunities to play a key role in global climate change.
this includes setting ambitious targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by more than 20% by 2020.
in writing.
the resolution includes significant progress by the right-wing groups that signed it: citing the work of the ipcc, which refers to climate change, calling for greater participation of civil society in the work of the mexico city conference, calling on the eu to push its greenhouse gas emission reduction targets beyond the 20% proposed for 2020. but they are not enough, and the praise for the carbon market makes them unrealistic.
the aid proposed for the countries of the south, to which we owe a climate debt, is insufficient.
similarly, the proposed target of a 30% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 is far from the 40% recommended by the ipcc.
moreover, no reference is made to the initiative of the world conference of peoples on climate change by bolivian president evo morales ayma.
yet, to date, it is the only country in the world that has proposed that people recognize the rights of ecosystems and establish a climate justice court.
it is true that positive measures have been adopted, such as those calling on the commission to revise its ambitions for greenhouse gas emissions and to provide sufficient funding for the fight against these gases.
other amendments are unacceptable because they leave it to the market to regulate by means of pollution permits, clean development mechanisms, etc.
finally, i regret the rejection of the proposal for a green tobin tax, the proceeds of which would have helped developing countries in the fight against climate change.
there can be no lasting, serious and coherent solution to climate change in the logic of the system that created it.
there is no consensus on this ban, neither among scientists nor among environmental associations.
one of its objectives is the conservation of bluefin tuna, which is an essential element of the balance of marine biodiversity.
the un principle of shared responsibility for environmental problems must therefore be applied and the effort of fishermen must be compensated by a contribution from the european union.
moreover, the creation by france of a genuine exclusive economic zone in the mediterranean would make it possible to protect the resource while maintaining a small-scale fishery that respects ecological balances.
in order to avoid an ecological catastrophe, coupled with an economic crisis for the fishing sector, it is urgent to introduce a policy of international prohibition of industrial tuna fishing.
what is the view of the interagency committee on radiation protection, which brings together the european commission, the iaea international atomic energy agency and the nuclear energy agency?
i believe that after a certain time, china will not just have a comparative advantage over europe, it will have an absolute advantage if we do not integrate social issues, monetary issues, tax issues and, of course, environmental issues.
so in all the national debates - and you are a figure on the belgian scene - you know that today all the political parties are finding that in a globalised world we cannot manage social dumping, environmental dumping, monetary dumping, fiscal dumping.
where is the definition of industrial choices, agricultural choices, economic choices and, of course, the social and environmental choices that we are developing at european level, and then how do we trade with the rest of the world?
the european union is strong on certain values: respect for the protection of intellectual property, fairness in investment, market access, the fight against non-tariff barriers to trade and respect for social and environmental standards.
if you have visited brittany, mr de gucht, you will know that green algae and pollution of groundwater are a huge problem today, linked to the intensification of pig farming.
finally, this agreement is also innovative because, for the first time, we are going to ask for an environmental derogation.
we are constantly told that europe is the undisputed and unchallenged leader in the fight against climate change in the world.
the reality is that we are negotiating exemptions with south korea on co2 emissions from cars because the automobile lobby has been very strong in europe in pushing back the deadlines for co2 emission constraints and now they are forced to get exemptions from outside.
i mean, you often have a very balanced discourse on things, but as soon as we talk about taxes, all of a sudden, there... on the border carbon tax mentioned during your hearing and now on the tobin tax, i bet you, mr de gucht, that before the end of your mandate the commission will have to speak out strongly on the tobin tax because it is now an indispensable tool for the regulation of financial markets.
in addition, there is a problem of consistency with the ambition to develop social and environmental standards.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
finally, to any sinner in mercy, let's not waste any more time.
for the greens/efa group as early as 2006, the un was stating that the most vulnerable and poorest people were the first victims of climate change.
a recent report predicts that by 2050, one billion people will have fled from a hostile environment.
the precarious situation of these climate migrants, forced to take refuge in makeshift camps, raises the threat level against women.
however, it must be noted that in the last 15 years, not a single piece of legislation adopted at european level in the environmental field has included a gender dimension.
i therefore ask on behalf of the green group that the european union and its member states integrate the gender perspective into all environmental impact assessments, laws and policies.
more efficient, especially if it took account of all decentralized energy sources.
it's not about accounting for every solar panel, but at the state level, there's information that you could collect to account for all decentralized energy plans.
finally, taxpayers are very much involved in the energy transition effort, so it would be important to have information on financing, to know precisely in which direction taxpayers are financing the european energy transition.
yes, we must conserve resources and promote sustainable fishing, but we must be careful not to stigmatise a profession which has long understood that its survival depends on respecting the rules.
this management approach is seen by some as a management tool that meets the ecological, economic and social objectives of the sector.
it will also have to incorporate elements that are essential to the social democrats, such as the human and social dimension of the whole sector, which will have to be combined effectively with the promotion of sustainable fishing practices and the conservation of fish stocks in an ecosystem approach.
europe needs strong, sustainable and quality aquaculture.
pollution and environmental changes are making production ever more fragile and unstable.
i voted in favour of the valean report on the proposal for a council regulation on the communication to the commission of investment projects relating to energy infrastructure in the european community.
a sufficiently precise picture is essential to promote a better match between energy supply and demand at european level and to decide on the most appropriate infrastructure investments.
this will also increase transparency in markets (while protecting business data) and combat energy dependency on a source or a supply site.
i voted against mrs valean's report because it supports the liberalisation of the energy sector and a liberal european energy policy, the dramatic consequences of which we are aware for workers in the sector and for a growing number of citizens, and which may even lead to regular interruptions in the supply of energy.
we can fear for the preservation of existing infrastructure when an amendment calls for the guarantee of priority investments in the interests of the energy market alone.
it is not enough to add the word 'solidarity' to the end of an amendment to make european energy policy acceptable when, in addition, an amendment refuses the european union any intervention in the functioning of the market.
in general, the objective should not be to meet an ever-increasing demand for energy.
the additional funding for new infrastructure investments should instead be allocated to the development of energy efficiency.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
i voted against the report by mrs maria do céu patrão neves because of the rejection of the amendments seeking to strike a balance between environmental interests and the preservation of small-scale fisheries.
it is up to us in the future to show greater responsibility, to ensure that the member states strictly apply community legislation, including the birds and habitats directives, and to make the structural funds subject to the requirements of sustainability, security and biodiversity.
the eu 2020 strategy is a unique opportunity to redefine our relationship with nature and the environment.
the proceeds from this tax would be used, for example, to finance the recovery and sustainable development of the economy and, initially, could be used to offset the cost of the crisis to the real economy and taxpayers.
we need consumption that prepares for the future, that is in line with the challenges of sustainable development, responsible consumption that does not always seek to promote discount products that are supposed to boost the purchasing power of families but which, in fact, are often of poor quality and result from almost systematic relocations of their manufacture outside the union.
we would not want this internal market test to be used as a pretext for calling into question social or environmental progress.
finally, i believe that with the development of our digital environment, we cannot deny that counterfeiting has become intangible.
it's a miracle who is actually in charge of implementing the 27 international conventions on social and environmental matters that are mandatory for gsp+ beneficiaries?
is it sustainable development, diversification of production, creation of decent jobs, or on the contrary, the proliferation of short-term contracts, the increase in abandoned farms, the concentration of large property for export?
it corresponds to a need for our continent to work for its own security but also to contribute to the stability of the world around us, to deal with the crises and threats that are developing in our environment.
beyond the traditional armed conflicts that persist in our immediate environment, europe must be able to state its interests and defend them against new threats, particularly piracy and cybercrime.
the union also has a role to play in promoting cooperation in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy.
the thinking should therefore be conducted in a global manner, taking into account the whole economic environment surrounding very small enterprises, their relations with banks, with management centres at the french level and of course with their customers.
that is why europe must debate a different vision of its future, based on genuine economic coordination, solidarity, a strategy for green growth, an energy community, a cohesion budget, own resources, investment in education and research, fiscal and social harmonization, the fight against tax havens, the taxation of international financial transactions.
secondly, our priorities should be more focused on the fight against poverty and sustainable growth.
this is a great missed opportunity for the european parliament in building a social and sustainable europe.
the resolution adopted by a very large majority (536 votes in favour, 80 against and 33 abstentions) on wednesday was supported by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
the questions to be answered by the commission concern the use of this tax to support developing countries' adaptation to climate change and the financing of development cooperation, but also what levers the commission could use to persuade its partners to also implement this tax in order to avoid capital migration.
but first and foremost, a thorough impact assessment is needed to ensure that this tax does not reduce the union's competitiveness, sustainable investment, innovation and growth, or have a negative impact on smes and individual investors.
such a tax would have the dual benefit of helping to stabilise markets and generate huge revenues to help developing countries finance their adaptation to climate change and the fight against poverty.
madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, i am delighted to see you again, mr potočnik, in your position as commissioner for the environment.
i would like to welcome the question from my colleague, president reul, who was right, commissioner, to ask you how the commission sees this crucial issue of clean energy and the financing of new technologies.
we will need an additional 40% of energy by 2030, and i would add that 80% of this consumption demand will come from non-oecd countries.
the european union therefore has a duty to intervene and i would like to say a few words on a subject which may divide us within the political groups, namely nuclear energy.
nuclear energy, as we know, is a decarbonised energy and we need funding, commissioner, particularly from carbon credits, to develop research, development and training on all these subjects.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, several regions of europe have been struck by exceptional natural weather phenomena, which have caused enormous material, economic, agricultural and environmental damage and, unfortunately, too many human casualties.
first, the compulsive need to link the natural disasters we are experiencing to so-called global warming.
the questions that need to be asked are the worrying increase in these destructive weather events, the role of climate change and the urgency of finding remedies.
finally, this aid should not be used to rebuild by repeating the same dramatic environmental and urban errors, but in a deliberate way, in order to prevent as much as possible the recurrence of such tragedies.
the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the effects of the recent events on the environment and to draw up a report on the effects of the recent events on the environment.
that is why i am proposing that the european union, in conjunction with the states and regions, should be able to draw up a coherent plan for reconstruction and sustainable development, taking account of geography, the environment, biodiversity and coastal activities.
storm xynthia is another dramatic and painful manifestation of climate change, which is intensifying the violence and frequency of these natural phenomena.
the european union is now too regularly confronted with such natural disasters to be content with its current policies and i believe that it should strengthen 3 lines of intervention to better protect its citizens: - prevention, addressed in the 2009 white paper on adaptation to climate change, for which i was rapporteur, and which particularly emphasises the vulnerability of coastal and mountain areas; - the rapid intervention, finally creating the european civil protection force which has been much talked about and which is only waiting for a proposal to become a reality; - reparation, by allowing the emergency mobilisation of the structural funds, and if necessary outside the regional framework of the programmed lines of intervention, and of the solidarity fund whose regulation must be amended to speed up and simplify its mobilisation.
this will lead to a sustainable recovery with a high employment rate.
i propose that a system of occupational social security and training for the trades of tomorrow be studied and tested, combined with the development of public research, which is essential for a new, sustainable and sustainable economy.
in 2009, as was very eloquently said by mr scicluna, the european central bank was operating in an environment that future economic historians are likely to describe as the most difficult one for advanced economies since the second world war.
the same applies to the consolidation of public finances, which is a prerequisite for sustainable growth.
instead, this is time for a change in step to promote sustainable growth and job creation.
first, to understand that while sustainability of public finances is a key element, it is not enough.
i am voting against this report which blindly promotes the neoliberal logic responsible for the economic, social and ecological crisis whose consequences we are all suffering.
but it nevertheless promotes the use and research of civil nuclear energy, which everyone knows today must be phased out.
i regret that these are only possibilities outlined in the text and that their anchoring in a capitalist environment considerably reduces their scope.
i voted for the guerrero report, which reminds europe of its responsibilities and calls for the commitments it has made in the area of official development assistance, in particular the target of 0.7% of gdp by 2015. in adopting it, parliament also called for the introduction of an international financial transaction tax to finance development, access to global public goods and the adaptation of poor countries to the challenges of climate change.
i supported the report by my colleague enrique guerrero salom to remind member states of their responsibilities towards developing countries in the face of the global challenges of the economic crisis and climate change, for which they are not responsible.
but this does not compensate for the fact that he is firmly in favour of the carbon market and green growth and that he preaches free trade and the proliferation of financial services.
a rapid return to the same policies that contributed to the crisis is being prepared in the name of "public finance sustainability", but at the expense of a possible recovery, and of household purchasing power.
i am voting against this report which blindly promotes the neoliberal logic responsible for the economic, social and ecological crisis whose consequences we are all suffering.
we support this report because it sets out the challenges facing the european union's maritime policy, namely a sharp increase in maritime traffic, both international and intra-community, without sacrificing the environment or social issues.
this text is part of the logic we want to see applied in all areas: that of a sustainable development policy.
finally, we would like to stress the priority given to environmental issues.
mr van dalen's report takes the right measure of the global environmental challenge to which shipping is one of the answers.
it is a particularly valuable tool against global warming.
we only regret that the amendment we tabled to include the shipping sector in the system of trading in carbon emission allowances was not included by the rapporteur and not accepted by the commission.
in our view, no sector of the economy should be exempt from the common rule and, like the air and road sectors, maritime transport, even though it is responsible for a small amount of emissions, must be involved in the reduction effort.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is an understatement to say that the union needs a genuine strategy for the development of maritime transport, because this is a major issue for the future of our union in terms of food, economic and political independence, as well as environmental protection.
it is a good thing to make state aid to the sector conditional on the fulfilment of social and environmental quality criteria and on the promotion of employment and training of seafarers from the member states of the union, because the only real distortions of competition do not come from state aid but from social, wage and environmental dumping.
shipping is a strategic sector for the european union in several respects, firstly because of its role in growth and employment, its international dimension, its ecological and sustainable character.
i would like to stress a few points that we have made with my colleague, mrs vlasto, in the committee on transport, namely that the european union must act to strengthen the competitiveness of maritime transport, in particular by improving working conditions and career opportunities in this sector, without, however, dissociating the objective of competitiveness from those of sustainable development, fair competition and safety.
in environmental matters, eu policy should promote the internalisation of external costs and the establishment of maritime emission control zones.
we must ensure consistency between our policies, keeping in mind the overall sustainability of our proposals from a global perspective.
animal welfare standards must coexist with european trade policy, with the protection of our jobs or with the practice of hunting activities which allow the regulation of wildlife which is essential for the balance of biodiversity.
- mr president, commissioner, the report i am presenting to parliament is an attempt to explain that agriculture has a place and a role to play in the fight against global warming.
nature this week - and volcanoes in particular - reminds us that they can have a major impact on human activities and the climate.
but it still requires that men, and europe in particular, take responsibility for combating what is called global warming.
my report tries to show that agriculture can continue to reduce its carbon emissions, reduce its fossil fuel consumption and, above all, on the other hand, participate very actively in carbon sequestration in order to achieve, at the global level, a lower proportion of carbon emissions and a higher proportion of carbon sequestered and sequestered.
in this approach, we must be able to find ways of ensuring that agriculture, as i said earlier, not only reduces its energy consumption, but at the same time participates very actively in carbon sequestration.
in particular, the role of photosynthesis, biomass and, above all, what i am particularly fond of, also related to soils, the capacity of european soils to store organic carbon.
i think that the path i am opening up in this report, which i hope will be followed in the vote in plenary in brussels, must enable european agriculture to enter a phase of sustainability, to ensure an ecological transition to agriculture that would put it ahead of a number of other continents or other agriculture to ensure that it is capable of being economically efficient, ecologically efficient and, from that point on, socially efficient.
this report therefore deals with a particular issue, the fight against global warming and agriculture, but it is intended - i hope anyway - to open up other perspectives to feed in particular the debate on the future of agricultural policy after 2013. i will address the commission, i will address - as i have done many times - the committees on agriculture and i will also address the various ministers when i have the opportunity.
we need a common agricultural policy because the agricultural europe must ensure food security and also commit itself to the path of sustainability.
however, and this is even more important to me, i believe that we must do everything possible to give priority to the real economy, to sustainable investment, which creates jobs, as opposed to the current ultra-financialisation of the economy, and i would like to see concrete projects that would go in this direction.
of course, i do not believe that this is enough to rebuild haiti in a sustainable way, when we are so indebted to the haitian people.
but as you said, there is an emergency: an emergency because other cyclones may come and worsen the living conditions of the people even more; urgently rebuild homes and buildings, such as schools and hospitals, as the haitian government begins to evacuate some of the camps; the commission is also aware of the urgent need to coordinate and distribute food aid and health care more effectively and to develop a new sustainable agricultural and rural project to ensure food security in haiti.
we are expanding our cooperation beyond economic issues to cover key strategic issues – climate change, non-proliferation, tackling drugs, the promotion of peace and security worldwide.
we have intensified our policy dialogues on a range of issues – sustainable development, migration and the fight against illicit drugs.
we want to have an action plan that covers cooperation on key issues – science, technology and innovation, environment, climate change and so on.
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, before the madrid summit, in a context of financial, social and environmental crisis, the european union has a role to play, a role of development cooperation.
i am also pleased to see that the afet report recognises femicide and prioritises the fight against climate change.
respect for the political, social, environmental and cultural rights of indigenous peoples must be at the heart of our transatlantic relations.
minimum ecological and social standards must be respected.
i do not believe in any agreement that does not give priority to respect for human rights and the environment.
it is our responsibility to uphold human rights and respect for the environment in all our external relations.
to give you a few examples: the harmonization of thresholds for large projects up to eur 50 million, simpler rules for the modification of operational programmes when this is necessary to deal with the crisis, the promotion of energy efficiency measures in housing and in the renovation of housing, something which is not only in the sense of energy saving but also has an impact on the construction industry.
first, two enlargements in 2004 and 2007, with 12 new member states, and other challenges such as employment and vocational training, immigration, the environment, aviation safety and many others.
the european environment agency has set up a management control system to monitor the progress of its projects and the use of its resources in real time.
the transeuropean transport network also contributes to the plan for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by introducing better management of transport means and promoting their interoperability.
this is a real leap forward: less information to be provided, more flexibility on revenue-generating projects, less controls by the commission for environmental projects between 25 and 50 million euros, etc.
environmental projects costing less than €50 million will no longer need to be specifically requested by member states for approval by the european commission.
while shipping remains one of the least polluting modes, progress is still needed in reducing emissions of sulphur oxide, nitrogen oxide, fine particulate matter (pm10) and co2.
the demand for a reduction in the carbon footprint of ships and port infrastructure, improved facilities for seafarers, the demand for a reduction in emissions of sulphur oxide, nitrogen oxide, fine particulate matter (pm10) and co2, or the creation of maritime emission control zones, are all measures that can be positive depending on how they are applied.
i wanted to reaffirm the imperative of safety as a prerequisite for maritime transport and to stress, despite the difficult economic environment, the need to respect high standards of protection of the marine and coastal environment.
the expected increase in the volume of goods and passengers, the greater severity of environmental standards and the need to promote intermodality and modal shifting make it necessary to modernise port infrastructure.
imposing legitimate rules on our own producers and livestock farmers penalizes them in a global, ultra-trade-based system where social, environmental or other concerns are considered by the wto as non-tariff barriers to trade.
the report on eu agriculture and climate change has, in my view, the essential quality of combining environmental protection and the promotion of a strong european agriculture.
the agricultural sector must move decisively towards more environmentally friendly and sustainable production methods.
the common agricultural policy is a key area in the fight against climate change in the years ahead.
in this respect, the report by stéphane le foll wisely puts the climate challenge at the heart of the cap.
agriculture is affected by climate change in two ways.
but it also accounts for 9% of the continent's greenhouse gas emissions.
by targeting their use, promoting bio-waste fertilisers and emphasising organic farming, we are drastically reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
methane from animal manure is also a renewable energy source!
the democratic movement delegation in the european parliament welcomes the adoption of the report on eu agriculture and climate change.
it welcomed the emphasis on the new challenges facing the common agricultural policy, such as climate change, water, renewable energy, biodiversity and soil management (carbon dioxide capture, water and mineral retention capacity, biological life, etc.).
in the same spirit, the modem delegation called for the establishment of a common european forestry policy to promote sustainable forest management and production and to better exploit the contributions of the timber sector and its economic development.
i supported the report by my french socialist colleague stéphane le foll because it argues that european agriculture must continue as it has already begun to do to adapt to the consequences of ongoing climate change and prepare for the impact that these changes will have in the future for many regions of the european union.
agriculture has a crucial place and a role to play in the fight against global warming.
this is a key issue for food security and for moving towards sustainability.
in this context, the post-2013 cap will necessarily need to integrate this climate dimension by providing solutions and support for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, encouraging soil carbon storage, developing sustainable renewable energy production and maximising the photosynthetic function.
it involves respect for human beings and our ecosystem.
however, the preference given to short circuits (although not mentioned as such), the priority given to renewable energy, the criticism of expensive irrigation systems or the qualification of the mitigation of the effects of climate change as a "public good" are all concessions to our theses that cannot be ignored.
as regards the investment facility managed by the european investment bank (eib), which is a risky instrument financed by the edf to encourage private investment in the difficult economic and political environment of the acp countries, i very much agree with the idea that the eib should report in the discharge procedure but this will be a point for discussion, particularly if the union, as parliament wishes, becomes a shareholder in the capital of the eib.
the text reconciles the economic, social, political and institutional dimensions to ensure that trade between the two geographical areas also benefits the most disadvantaged populations and contributes to the sustainable development of the subcontinent.
cyanide is an extremely dangerous chemical, used by the mining industry despite the risks it poses to the environment and human health.
this spill has caused one of the greatest ecological disasters in central europe.
for several years, toxic substances have threatened the ecological balance, the food chain and the basic human water needs of these rivers.
cyanide mining is labour-saving, but it does pose a real risk of environmental disaster.
european environmental legislation enshrines the precautionary principle and requires the prevention and control of water pollution.
the european parliament adopted a resolution in favour of a total ban on cyanide-based technologies in the mining industry by the end of 2011. the environmental consequences of cyanide pollution are transnational, so this ban should apply at european level.
in parallel, the commission will have to encourage the industrial conversion of these areas by providing financial support for alternative green industries, renewable energy and tourism.
i voted in favour of this text and am satisfied with the outcome of the vote because cyanide is an extremely toxic chemical substance, with potentially catastrophic and irreversible effects on the environment and human health.
that this incident is known as a "second chernobyl" because of the devastating impact it has had on the environment?
the response must be political, strong, rapid, coordinated, taking into account the serious environmental crisis we are experiencing and which requires a new development model.
you do not have a coherent strategy combining economic, social, commercial, industrial, agricultural or research policies to ensure sustainable and equitable development.
the european union is not investing enough, and we know today that we need to invest more in the interconnection of transport networks, energy, high-speed trains, motorways, universities, water, space and health.
i quote: 'in its relations with the rest of the world, the union contributes to the sustainable development of the planet.'
in february 2009, the jordanian authorities contacted the eib to support their nuclear energy development project, including the construction of a nuclear power plant by 2016. i am therefore pleased to have received assurances from your services that the european investment bank has not complied with this request and that it considers it its duty to support projects to develop wind and solar energy in jordan, which are the future energy sources for our planet because they are renewable.
not only because of the oil industry but also because every month 500 containers full of toxic waste of all kinds enter the port and are dumped in open air in huge landfills.
these provisions thus strengthen the union's position in the fight against pollution and environmental protection by promoting the use of clean vehicles, regardless of the type of vehicle.
this is the beginning of a new model of society taking into account the various challenges (environmental, societal, technological, demographic, etc.)
this report is consistent with the belief that global warming is fatal and must be man-made.
i would note, by the way, that such caution is rarely applied to other measures relating to the environment and human health, such as gmos for example.
it is a pity that so many trees, recognized carbon sinks, were sacrificed in the printing of this text.
in my report to the committee on transport, i regretted the lack of consideration of the transport sector in the european strategy for adaptation to climate change, despite its considerable economic importance and being one of the main sources of co2 emissions.
we need to make a significant effort to effectively support businesses and users in adapting to climate change.
the success of our policy requires that adequate and innovative financing methods be mobilised to minimise the impact on people, ecological balances and economic activities.
our strategy must also take into account sensitive geographical areas, such as coastal, marine and mountain areas, which are particularly vulnerable and will be hit hard by climate change if we do not take appropriate protective measures.
it was becoming urgent for our parliament to adopt effective adaptation mechanisms for the transport sector, which must no longer be just the cause of the problem but become a solution in the fight against climate change.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the positive step forward that this directive represents in the face of the urgency of the fight against climate change.
it is estimated that between 50 and 125 million europeans suffer from energy poverty according to the epee.
but to reach factor four, we will need at least 150 million new homes by 2050. commissioner, since 2007, 4% of the erdf has been eligible for improving the energy efficiency of buildings but it is only very partially used.
energy performance of buildings is an area of great potential for the european union.
the reduction in energy consumption that will be possible as a result of the measures introduced by this text will contribute to increasing the eu's energy independence and is in line with an efficient european energy policy.
the success of this policy also depends on the member states having to use the financial mechanisms such as applying a vat reduction, allocating the maximum allowable share of european funds to energy performance, etc.
at the level of citizens, these advances will also benefit european households, which will see a decrease in their energy expenditure.
i therefore hope that in practice the improvements in the energy performance of buildings will benefit above all the latter category of citizens.
a pass-through of construction and renovation costs on rents could make the benefits of energy performance of buildings inaccessible to those who need it most.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when this text was referred to the committee on regional development, i succeeded in introducing the idea of extending the derogation to allow the production of reconstituted milk in martinique and guadeloupe, following the example of the sustainable growth model which has proved its worth in madeira.
it will guarantee them the sustainability of the sector.
this ambitious text aims to encourage the construction/renovation of buildings to more environmentally friendly standards because they are more energy efficient.
with this type of initiative, the european union is demonstrating its leadership in sustainable development.
it is therefore important not only to promote new sustainable construction but also to renovate sustainably.
i welcome this new legislation which will help consumers to reduce their energy bills and the eu as a whole to achieve its climate target of a 20% reduction in energy consumption within 10 years.
member states will have to adapt their building codes so that all buildings constructed from the end of 2020 will meet high energy standards.
for the democratic movement, the housing issue is also one of urban planning and quality of the built environment.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
i have approved the draft revised building performance directives because i believe that new construction should be based on energy efficiency and that binding standards should apply in this area so that they can be effectively enforced everywhere.
these texts also provide that energy saving is a fundamental element in the renovation of buildings; i therefore hope that these measures will give a new impetus to smes and that member states will strengthen training programmes for the workforce responsible for implementing energy efficiency in buildings.
similarly, as regards the energy labelling of energy-consuming products, i consider it necessary for consumers to be aware of the energy characteristics of the products they buy.
it calls for an ambitious and sustainable resettlement programme to be set up within the eu and offers financial assistance to member states willing to participate.
i therefore hope that strategy 2020, which is based on a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy, will translate into ambitious financial commitments for education and training for young people, because in these times of systemic crisis, the survival of the eu in the medium term is only possible with educated and mobilized youth for the european project.
at the same time, consumers want to be able to make informed purchases, sometimes by choosing products from countries with higher quality standards or social and environmental standards.
the report also calls on the commission to consider labelling which would give consumers access to information on the social and environmental conditions of manufacture of the products they buy.
the azores, for their part, will benefit from a derogation from the rules limiting sugar exports to the eu, as sugar beet production is the most viable alternative to milk quotas for the island, both for the economy and the environment.
i regret that the sugar export quotas were not maintained at 3 000 tonnes for the azores, that the derogation granted to réunion for milk production was not considered for the other french overseas departments and that the safeguards concerning the sustainability of the efforts made by the reunion milk producers were not retained by the commission.
the emphasis on the traceability of foodstuffs is also of interest, although clear labelling on the ecological footprint is more likely to raise awareness among all citizens (producers and consumers) of the importance of relocation and the environmental quality of production.
this report provides some insight into the social and environmental standards which must be able to be integrated into the calls for tender; it also proposes recommendations to facilitate access for smes to public contracts.
however, we also did not want to vote against this report, which contains important elements, in particular with regard to social and environmental standards which must be able to be incorporated into calls for tenders, recommendations to facilitate access for smes and a clear call for vigilance in public-private partnership contracts.
and i have another wish, commissioner: that the union will put all its weight, all its energy, into ensuring that all the member states adapt their law to international justice.
the same applies to the lack of sufficient controls by the public authorities on safety systems required and implemented by platform operators to avoid pollution risks and, finally, the specific risk associated with oil pollution in particularly sensitive and/or populated areas.
our colleague mr sonik has just mentioned the catastrophic consequences of pollution, for example in the baltic sea.
thirdly, what measures have been taken to prevent pollution of the coast in the event of an accident?
is it not also necessary, in view of the fact that environmental damage is now covered by community law, to provide for an adequate system of compensation and financial guarantee?
finally, oil companies are drilling deeper and deeper, making it very difficult to respond to accidents and endangering the marine environment.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, the oil spill in the gulf of mexico is a real ecological and economic disaster.
beyond a much-needed industrial policy, i am proposing a major european investment plan of €1 000 billion over the ten years of the 2020 strategy, aimed at making the union the most competitive in the world in terms of transeuropean networks, infrastructure, interconnection, high-speed trains, highways, water, space, research, health, energy, education, by renewing our budgetary intervention, in conjunction with all the public actors and, in particular, the eib.
it admits that the market is not in a position to implement the rationalisation of energy use.
i also welcome the desire for harmonization on the part of the labelling authorities in the field of energy saving.
it is regrettable, however, that the total ecological footprint labelling of products is not being proposed anywhere, when we need to put it in place as soon as possible.
it is also regrettable that a parliament which claims to be at the forefront of the fight against climate change does not propose to include ecological crimes as crimes against humanity as was proposed at the cochabamba peoples' summit.
it is true that interest rates are rising and threatening the sustainability of debt.
however, apart from the fact that this notion of sustainability has never been defined in the economic literature, can it be said that the risk premiums demanded by the markets are justified?
i dream of a europe that has become a pioneer of a different kind of consumption, linked to the knowledge triangle, linked to sustainable development, a europe that is able to develop production conditions, products that are of interest to the consumer, that are made with him, a europe that relies on quality and no longer on quantity for quantity.
but whether we call it smart, sustainable or inclusive, it does not matter, a crisis is beginning in europe today, and it will not end tomorrow.
the 2020 strategy will therefore be all the stronger if it has the capacity to adapt to a changing environment.
and if we want to have a long-term vision, if we want sustainable growth, in a world that is organized in a multipolar way, we also need our south.
we need to improve the economic and legal environment.
against the background of major global challenges such as the international economic and financial crisis, climate change and energy security, the union for the mediterranean will have to deal with the political situation in the middle east, launch the operational functioning of the union for the mediterranean secretariat and take stock of progress made by the partnership since july 2008. it is an opportunity for a collective reformation of our commitment and political will to create an area of peace, stability and shared prosperity in the mediterranean.
if we put into place practical projects, such as access to water, food and energy sources, and improved civil protection capabilities, it will be in the interest of our peoples.
the energy interconnections, the motorways of the sea to connect southern mediterranean port facilities with european ones, and the mediterranean solar plan are areas of considerable potential in terms of investment, job creation and enhancing trade relations.
the agricultural policy must safeguard the imperatives of food sovereignty and, as we all know, the energy issue is crucial.
in this text we have found the right balance between the objectives of an open economy, capable of stimulating growth and job creation and of responding in an integrated way to the major challenges of tomorrow (in terms of competitiveness, research and development, industrial policy, demographic and environmental challenges) and those of an economic system capable of fulfilling the mission of protecting the consumer and of offering the social and environmental safeguards that citizens need.
europe must therefore adopt a comprehensive approach, fully integrating citizens' concerns and other horizontal policy areas, in particular health, social and consumer protection, labour law, the environment, sustainable development and external policies.
any incentive to dismantle a nuclear power station and to set up research on renewable energy and the treatment of nuclear waste is to be welcomed.
this is in line with the gradual phase-out of nuclear energy which we are advocating.
however, i would like to stress my perplexity at the insistence on the 'final disposal' of nuclear waste.
this technique cannot be a long-term solution, given the risks it poses to our ecosystem.
the long-term sustainability of our public finances is a crucial issue for the credibility of european economic and fiscal policies.
we must now accept that the public finances of many member states are not sustainable and have the courage to remedy this.
in the vote on thursday 20 may on the report by socialist mep liem hoang ngoc on the long-term sustainability of public finances, the ump and modem groups in the european parliament voted enthusiastically for a text which the epp and alde groups had amended line by line to turn it into a neoliberal manifesto.
raising the retirement age, enshrining a security and growth pact as a solution to the crisis, even though it is one of the obvious causes, congratulating the ecb on the bank bailout, promoting a sustainable and competitive social market economy - all these are neoliberal dogmas repeated throughout the text.
i voted in favour of this report because it contains the following three ideas which are very important: 1) the new institutional architecture must become effective quickly in order to make the ufm operational, 2) adequate funding is essential to enable the ufm to achieve its objectives and thus to realise its 6 major strategic projects (de-pollution of the mediterranean, transport, renewable energies, education, smes, civil protection) 3) the success of the ufm is conditional on the resolution of regional conflicts in the mediterranean basin.
how can we call for greater environmental ambition in this house on a regular basis?
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
once adopted, this regulation should make the main freight railway traffic on european corridors more efficient and thus contribute to reducing pollutant emissions from transport.
this is an important step towards the sustainable development of the rail transport sector in europe, which will finally be able to offer a real alternative to air and road transport.
the 2020 agenda for growth and jobs, which is supposed to be the eu's roadmap for the next 10 years, and the fight against climate change cannot really exist without funding.
good internet governance must guarantee access for all to goods, including cultural goods, in a digital environment, but this cannot be done at the expense of the rights of creators and in particular of authors, which cannot be treated as a simple intellectual property right; authors should be able to choose how they want to give access to their works.
innovation is at the heart of successfully addressing the major societal and environmental challenges facing the union today and achieving its strategic policy objectives.
we will not achieve our 2020 energy and climate targets unless we accelerate the development and widespread use of clean, sustainable and efficient energy technologies.
it is the innovations of tomorrow that will enable europe to meet the major economic, social and environmental challenges of the coming decades.
the goals are to reduce extreme poverty and hunger, to ensure primary education for all, to promote gender equality, to reduce child mortality, to improve maternal health, to combat hiv/aids, malaria and tuberculosis, to protect the environment in a sustainable way and to establish a global partnership for development.
the cashman report gives a very accurate account of the millennium development goals, with emphasis on extreme poverty, the situation of women, health, education, the environment.
the report by mr van miert is a good example of the need to develop a common approach to the problem of the environment.
the need for assistance is greater than ever, particularly in the areas of food security, climate change, education, health, especially for hiv patients, and maternal and reproductive health.
the emphasis on the ecological debt of the northern countries vis-à-vis the southern countries and the demand for additional aid in this area.
the same applies to the demand for the establishment of an equitable distribution of wealth, support for small local farms and measures to promote access to land, water and other resources of biodiversity.
what financial resources do we want to invest in this project and do we want to waste these resources by spending them each in our own corner or do we want to pool them to ensure a better result at a lower cost to the taxpayer?
firstly, the establishment of a sustainable european monetary fund and a european bond market.
on the functioning: we must have, with the member states, a policy of coordination of public expenditure on european affairs: defence 27 armies, no enemies energy, research, no coherence; one internal market, 27 national regulators, no ambition, 27 diplomatic missions and hundreds of buildings abroad; one customs office and 27 customs administrations.
we need to make a billion-dollar investment plan on high-speed rail, rivers, energy, water, space, education, health.
while the union's demands are always put forward, the interests or positions of its partner seem systematically undervalued or disregarded, whether in the field of energy or in the way it can analyse the eastern partnership and the atlanticist aspirations of its closest neighbours.
the gmes programme (global monitoring for environment and security) is an initiative to develop an operational capacity for earth observation.
as ever more sophisticated technologies are now at our disposal to control our environment and thus ensure our security (in the case of natural disasters, pirate attacks at sea, the study of the situation of the ozone layer or climate change, etc.
in times of ecological catastrophe, investment in renewable energy is more than necessary.
but more is needed to preserve this common good of mankind - our ecosystem.
europe must urgently commit itself to a gradual phase-out of nuclear power and to the harmful logic of the carbon market.
of course i support the objectives of strategy 2020, particularly in the areas of employment, research, development and innovation, the fight against climate change, poverty reduction and improving the level of training.
the strategy advocated by a large majority in parliament is based on five pillars: a more proactive stability and growth pact; genuine economic governance led by the commission; an acceleration of the transition to a sustainable economy, based on the monti report and a european programme of investment in the infrastructure of central and southern europe; new permanent instruments (european monetary fund and european bond market) to be better prepared for future crises; a better calibrated eu2020 strategy, with sanctions and incentives for its proper implementation.
universal, that is to say, universal, indivisible, that is to say, all human rights must be defended equally, without opposing one another, whether civil and political rights, economic and social rights, environmental rights and cultural rights.
competition, as in the energy sector, causes a sharp increase in prices for consumers.
sncf, france's largest electricity consumer, purchased its energy from edf at a specific price.
better organisation will enable us to inform consumers about the environmental and social traceability of european products, which is not the case with certain products from third countries.
finally, i would like to add that this report is aimed at promoting a genuine european policy for the sustainable development of aquaculture, and that this development will contribute to the conservation of wild resources.
the protection of bluefin tuna is becoming a major and early environmental alert and the meaning of this alert goes far beyond the bluefin tuna issue alone.
the threat to fish stocks and their necessary protection now rings as the symbol of mankind's entry into a new era, that of the scarcity of resources: fisheries resources, food resources, energy resources.
the key words must become economy, sharing, precaution, and no more waste, overproduction, overconsumption.
predictability and sustainability must go hand in hand, in particular for the decisions needed to safeguard stocks and the sector in the long term, and the activity and income of fishermen in the short term, with the aim of fisheries that respect fisheries resources.
these own-initiative reports are a waste of energy for our parliament which wants to interfere in everything for ideological or political reasons, but never does anything effective.
it increases air traffic at the expense of the ecosystem.
similarly, i believe that a large proportion of other european funds should be devoted to projects for the prevention of risks and natural disasters, with a view to sustainable land and habitat development, use and management, in order to respond effectively to the new climate challenges.
a climate of civil war is reigning in a part of the country: massacres, mass rapes, the enlistment of child soldiers are, if i may say so, part of the landscape....unless i am mistaken, mr president, i have two minutes...mr president, excuse me, but i have two minutes to speak...
author.
the european union and libya signed last week a memorandum of understanding called the 'national indicative programme' covering the period 2011-2013, with €60 million for the development of human resources in the health sector; the commission is also proposing to establish a european union-wide network of specialised agencies for the protection of the environment.
some have said: 'the mediterranean countries have a different culture, they are not capable of taking any real reform measures, it is a waste of effort!'
i hear criticism about the climate, when the european union has the most ambitious climate programme in the world.
so in a lot of areas -- the environmental area, the financial area, and other areas -- we are taking bold initiatives and we will also defend them globally.
let's not waste our pleasure.
the first idea i have is that of taking into account the overall environmental impact of each mode of transport, and i do not want to stigmatise one mode over another, but i would like to have more information on the overall impact and ask the european investment bank to direct its financing towards transport companies that are greening their means of production.
the european union must step up its investment in skills and training to support sustainable employment.
i am particularly pleased that we have worked together to achieve important results during these six months, giving the european union an agenda for a new smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and taking key decisions to stabilise and strengthen the economy in the european union.
they give europe 2020 a political message that everyone can understand and that no one can oppose: employment, education, innovation, environment and social integration.
to have positive economic growth, that is, sustainable growth, green growth, you also have to invest in certain areas.
the concept of macro-region is worth applying to other territories marked by strong economic, environmental and cultural interdependence.
encourage cooperation between the baltic sea states to protect the area and to address common economic, social, energy, transport and other challenges.
this cleaning is necessary for the preservation of our ecosystem.
it is through an effort of innovation, research and development that the european union will be able to regain and stabilise sustainable growth and skilled jobs.
they will make road transport safer and cheaper, as well as reducing congestion and greenhouse gas emissions.
three factors are making it necessary to reflect deeply on the future of the european transport system: the enlargement of the european union to 27 member states, our environmental responsibilities and our commitment to passenger safety.
secondly, the need for sustainable transport, which requires us to work towards a decarbonisation of transport, as well as the development of intelligent transport systems.
the report on a sustainable future for transport is a positive signal for an efficient and integrated transport europe.
less road transport, more rail, river and sea links for freight, a protected and protected environment - these projects paint a picture of an ideal europe.
however, several points caught our attention and prompted our negative vote: - the usual focus on co2 emissions with binding quantified targets, while only passing mention is made of sox and nox emissions from maritime transport, with all the other ecological virtues; - the proposal to create a european road transport agency, whose relevance is more than questionable, given the criticism of reduced efficiency, high costs, and the haphazard management of many of the existing multiple european agencies; - the proposal to create a european fund for transport, and therefore additional expenditure, without specifying how they will be financed - and, the reaffirmation that the solution to all the problems would come from a greater liberalisation of the road sector and the expansion of cabotage, in particular.
this text does not provide the means to establish high social and environmental standards in the transport sector, which are admittedly indispensable.
by placing itself in the context of the carbon market, by validating the possibility of an increase in air traffic, by advocating the resolute liberalization of this sector for greater competitiveness, this report nullifies any ecological requirement worthy of the name.
the main themes of the petitions concern the environment, fundamental rights, justice and the internal market, and they come mainly from germany, spain, italy and romania.
mr fernandes received my full support for his report on the european commission's green paper on the management of bio-waste in the european union.
biodegradable waste has a role to play in a broader issue, namely the fight against climate change.
it is therefore essential to divert bio-waste from landfills, which are the worst long-term solution.
finally, the current management of bio-waste reflects a great diversity between member states.
finally, i would add that the management of bio-waste can support the social cohesion of the european union, since a recycling industry, for example, is a strong job creator.
i voted in favour of the green paper on the management of biodegradable waste in the european union.
there is a large difference between the member states that recycle the least (90% landfill, 10% recycling and energy recovery) and those that have adopted the most efficient approaches (10% landfill, 25% energy recovery and 65% recycling).
biodegradable waste plays an important role in the fight against climate change and offers interesting potential in terms of soil protection and the promotion of renewable energy production.
member states should take measures to promote the separate collection of bio-waste for purposes such as composting.
a genuine european market for compost must be created, because it is the most suitable treatment for green waste and has the advantage of being used to fertilize the soil.
proper management of bio-waste would therefore have not only environmental but also economic benefits.
the proposal to take waste out of landfills, to prefer composting to incineration, to ensure that incineration makes energy use of waste, is partly in line with the ecological planning we are advocating.
however, the promotion of biofuels and the encouragement of the privatisation of waste management which he advocates are taking up the liberal trends without any regard for their failures.
i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament calls on the european commission to take action on the treatment and management of bio-waste i.e.
waste from food and food preparation, green waste (garden, park, etc.
), industrial waste (wood, etc.)
the european parliament thus reaffirms a request made during the review of community waste legislation in 2008. the european parliament calls for the compulsory selective sorting of biowaste, the recycling of biowaste and the classification of compost according to its quality.
the commission and the member states must take measures to make europeans aware of the environmental benefits of the treatment of bio-waste.
this waste represents between 118 and 138 million tonnes of organic waste and therefore ends up, for the most part, in the collection of normal waste, whereas it could be recovered for different purposes.
it is therefore urgent that the commission should take up this matter, especially now that, after the failure of the copenhagen summit, environmental problems are at least taking a back seat.
the spanish presidency has worked hard in recent months but has not been able to close the gap, and here we are with a new presidency which has shown a lot of energy since last thursday, but has not been here for a long time.
mr president, the final agreement reached on the revision of the industrial emissions directives is more than acceptable, and i welcome the compromise work that has been achieved.
this final package contains the key points of the position which i defended with several of my colleagues in the committee on the environment, and which was to make this text ambitious but realistic legislation.
a great deal of work has been done on all sides to avoid this text being referred back to conciliation, a text which, i should remind you, is of crucial importance both for industry and for european environmental policy.
i repeat here - and our citizens know this well - that the answer to all our major challenges, whether it be the economy and employment, security, climate or energy, is european and global.
you have a number of objectives, such as sustainable growth, the fight against poverty or the environment, which we can share.
there will be no sustainable growth, no recovery, no fight against poverty without an increase in the purchasing power of the people.
to face this crisis, a clear choice would have to be made: justice and employment versus the financial market; the commission's proposal is to develop a voluntary policy for human, sustainable and supportive development.
instead of a stability pact which has become an austerity pact, would it not be better for parliament, the council and the commission to look together for another way forward: a new pact for social and ecological progress, backed up by a european central bank with new tasks, to buy back the debt securities of the states which need them and to refinance public credit at interest rates, provided that this serves employment, research, innovation and education, as well as a major european programme of useful and ecological infrastructure?
secondly, we were with jacques delors and president buzek a few weeks ago in brussels proposing a major community energy policy.
political leaders cannot accept risk to the health of our citizens and our ecosystem.
there are currently too many directives on industrial emissions in the european union, as there are seven.
this report therefore responds to an urgent need to rationalise european legislation by bringing together all the directives on industrial emissions in a single text.
in addition, installations are a central element in the prevention and reduction of pollution from industrial emissions.
it has taken environmental issues into account by strengthening the role of sectoral reference documents on best available techniques in determining the operating conditions of installations, by strengthening the provisions on closure and rehabilitation of sites, etc.
the highly controversial recasting into a single text of the seven directives which regulated industrial emissions in europe has finally been adopted, and we can welcome this vote.
emissions of potential pollutants into air, water, soil and waste.
it takes up the key points of the position we have been defending in the committee on the environment for several months, which aimed to make this text an ambitious but realistic piece of legislation, in line with the problems of our territories.
the agreement strengthens the provisions on environmental protection, but gives the member states some flexibility which we have fought for with a framework for large combustion plants.
in this time of crisis we need a strong european environmental policy, but one which will not bring our industry to its knees.
the proposal we are voting on updates, in a single text, seven existing laws on industrial emissions, including the important directives on large combustion plants and on integrated pollution prevention and control (the famous ippc, which covers some 52 000 industrial and agricultural plants - from refineries to pig farms - with a high pollution potential).
as in all compromises, there are concessions and advances, but overall the european parliament has fought for greater clarity and fairness in environmental requirements: the text clearly makes major progress on several key points (notably on air quality, optimisation of environmental performance, and strengthening of member states' obligations in the area of plant monitoring).
the prohibition of the import of illegal timber is a necessity, particularly in the context of the fight against global warming.
it will lead to a very significant reduction in co2 emissions into the atmosphere and help protect animal and plant species that are currently endangered.
20% of the wood and wood products that reach the eu are of illegal origin, and illegal logging is a powerful driver of deforestation, which is increasing by almost 13 million hectares each year and leading to a dramatic depletion of natural resources and biodiversity.
it is also a significant step in the fight against global warming.
this is a european but also a global commitment, as the g20 committed to 'acting to establish a more robust and globally consistent framework for the future supervision and regulation of the financial sector, which is capable of fostering sustainable growth and meeting the needs of businesses and citizens' (g20 summit, 2 april 2009 in london).
the aim of this body of legislation is multifaceted, but two main ones can be identified: stable financing of the economy for sustainable growth and jobs, and the desire to safeguard the unity of the european market.
the future supervisory framework should therefore ensure sustainable public finances and economic growth, competitiveness, social cohesion and the reduction of trade imbalances.
several key amendments were rejected, including the most important one, which i regard as the most important, namely the one calling for the sustainability of this system through the creation of a european monetary fund, the first step towards a european bond market which i have already repeatedly called for.
for example, iceland is in a position to set a good example for the european union in environmental policy.
after the disaster we have seen in the gulf of mexico, the situation obviously cannot leave us indifferent when we think of the victims, when we also think of the extremely serious, and probably sometimes irreparable, damage to the environment that has been caused in this region, and we have a duty to draw all the conclusions now in order to prevent a disaster of this kind from occurring in europe.
the council has also taken up the subject, and we had a first debate with the commission at our last energy council on 31 may.
this is also a question of major risks and possible risks on the ecological level and naturally raises the question of financial responsibility and the technical conditions for this dismantling.
i am happy to be able - that was my suggestion - to provide the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on industry, research and energy, or their coordinators, with initial results of these responses in an informal meeting in the coming days.
the environmental liability issue is at the heart of the polluterpays principle.
i want to develop a debate worldwide that makes comparable environmental disasters impossible in any region of the world, first of all in the marine region within our reach, but in the future worldwide.
beyond the loss of lives, we had an unprecedented ecological disaster that affects the marine and coastal ecosystems, an economic and social catastrophe for tourism, for the fishing industry, as well as many other maritime and coastal activities.
so we have to understand that there is great potential for future energy from the oceans.
we need to put more emphasis on renewable ocean energy – not only offshore wind energy, this is obvious, but i am not only referring to this.
i am referring also to sea energy, for example energy coming from waves, tides, the exploitation of algae or thermal sea potential.
this energy is cleaner and will help us to achieve our climate-action targets and the diversification of energy sources.
europe is the maritime continent par excellence and we should take the lead in the development of sustainable marine energy sources.
we need the tools for a prevention policy as mr oettinger said but, at the same time, we need to allow balanced and sustainable exploitation of the marine sources.
in conclusion, the integrated maritime policy of the european union will help the commission’s ongoing work and prepare the ground for a secured, balanced and sustainable use of the oceans.
i am thinking of seveso ii for risks or the environmental liability directive for liability and damage coverage.
i believe that the day we are able to have an assessment of the direct and indirect costs and benefits of the different energy sources, we will have made a great deal of progress towards sustainable development.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, every day brings new information which shows us the scale of the ecological disaster caused in the gulf of mexico by the breach of the offshore platform.
as for the european union, i think it is necessary for it to take preventive measures to combat this type of disaster, and i think it is also clear that all this is a case, as mrs damanaki said, for a firm and resolute choice in favour of clean and renewable energy.
to take account of the fact that agriculture, food and the environment are, in today's world, challenges for the whole of europe.
this is one of the main causes of the increase in greenhouse gas emissions and the loss of biodiversity.
environmentally friendly agriculture and the fight against climate change dictate this choice.
they will be pouring into europe at a lower cost because they are not produced with the same level of health, environmental and social requirements.
if we allow products to enter europe under free trade agreements which do not meet our social norms or our environmental standards, then the reform of the cap will be useless.
it is very clear that we cannot continue to live in hypocrisy, where on the one hand we impose environmental constraints on our farmers, health and safety traceability, on the grounds that we must protect consumers, and on the other hand we allow products that do not meet these standards to enter our continent freely.
european fishermen accept the environmental, social and health constraints imposed on them, but they are bitter about the fact that they do not apply in the same way to products imported en masse from third countries.
secondly, the trade preferences granted to certain third countries must be conditional on compliance with strict environmental, social and health standards, which is a minimum.
we have a fisheries sector that is neither ecologically sustainable nor economically performing well.
we need robust fisheries that ensure sustainable exploitation of the resources while allowing our fishermen, their families and the communities involved to make a decent living from their activities.
i hear your concerns about unfair competition from third countries and the absence of a level playing field in terms of social conditions, environmental and sustainability requirements and health protection laws.
i would also like to say that we remain committed to promoting the respect of all international principles and instruments of good maritime and fishery governance by our partners, as well as their responsible behaviour in terms of environmental protection and social conditions.
they want to know where the fish was caught or raised; also they want to know whether the products respect the environment and whether they have been fished sustainably.
the commission is fully committed to achieving the objectives of the strategy for the sustainable development of aquaculture, as we have already discussed in the ep report.
the eu is firmly committed to promoting both labour and environmental standards in the context of trade negotiations with third countries in parallel to market opening – for example, in the framework of a sustainable development chapter included in our trade agreements or in a number of international fora where these issues are addressed, such as the un, fao and regional fisheries management organisations, where the eu is an active participant.
we are therefore actively advocating a much stronger integration of social and environmental criteria in trade agreements when it comes to fishery products.
we support the idea of removing fishery products from the amna, because a fish is not a sock or a washing machine, it is an absolutely essential issue in terms of food security, in terms of biodiversity.
we all agree that european production is not enough and, rather than relying on the import variable above all else, we must first step up our efforts to safeguard and regenerate stocks, including through the use of aquaculture, to ensure the sustainability of the sector and its jobs in the union, and a european fisheries that is less dependent on the outside.
that is why i am in favour of a european label, in accordance with our environmental and social standards.
the report stresses the need to maintain the ecological and economic viability of the european union's fisheries, including non-industrial fisheries of a consistent scale in coastal waters, which help to preserve the cultural identity of the regions concerned, to ensure jobs at all stages of production and to ensure a safe and high-quality food supply.
the european union's policy of supporting industrial producers, whose fishing practices are often more harmful to the environment, is damaging small-scale fisheries as a whole.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
on the other hand, much progress remains to be made in consolidating democracy or even in the sustainable development of the country.
the challenge for the cap and for our farmers will be to produce more food with less land, less water and less energy.
they want an agriculture that respects the environment, that is concerned with quality, traceability, food safety, carbon footprint.
the challenge is to meet the doubling of food needs by 2050 in a context of water scarcity, a decline in arable land and a new energy situation dictated by the fight against climate change.
this is a logic which sacrifices our rural environment, not for the benefit of poor countries or the disadvantaged or desertified regions of europe, and which justifies the urgent need to renationalize the cap.
measures to support biodiversity should not be forgotten.
biodiversity must be at the heart of the cap's system, because its protection is no longer a luxury for the conservation of species and environments.
the text has the merit of acknowledging market failures and advocating for the fight against climate change.
this framework is in no way a means of combating global warming, nor is it the carbon market, agrofuels and gmos that this text is taking advantage of.
however, we are aware, as our rapporteur in the lead, that this must be done in a manner consistent with sustainable management; for example, the amount of fish caught must be limited in order to manage our natural resources.
in addition, it seems necessary to promote responsible consumption in which quality and sustainability of production are paramount.
the last elections were held in a climate of terror.
and that is why in any case - i am not prejudging the vote on the free trade agreement - the safeguard clause must be tightened up and in particular the customs refund mechanism reviewed, a regional safeguard clause must be implemented, the role of the european parliament in the procedure must be strengthened, an ad hoc comitology procedure must be introduced which respects the rights of parliament and social and environmental standards must be integrated.
this will fuel an ecological crisis with effects even more dire and faster than the melting of the greenland ice sheet.
it is also essential to promote quality products and sustainable production, and for this we need a credible european system, quality labels and signs.
but you can be sure that these reflections are aimed at supporting a european agriculture which is both competitive and sustainable and which is spread over the whole of europe.
our citizens are also aware that we need more europe, not less, to ensure our security, whether it be the security of people, energy security or food security.
europe has also played a pioneering role in the fight against global warming.
for our energy policy?
you didn't say that the ecological disaster, the climate breakdown, was forcing us to reinterpret our notion of growth.
not a word about the fact that if we want to be credible on climate change, we have to take back the 30 percent co2 reduction, be at the forefront of the debate on climate change.
40% of co2 emissions in europe are from buildings.
public investment must now be a european investment in the ecological transformation of our economy.
if so, i hope that in the next speech on europe you will show that you understand that we are no longer in the 1970s but that today we are facing the financial and ecological crisis.
however, this could only be done by taking care not to add additional administrative burdens to our businesses and by preserving the privacy of data which must be, in order to preserve a climate of trust.
if we do not integrate the environmental option into our thinking pattern, the same causes will have the same effects.
the environment is a chance to develop a new model of development.
the sources of employment are considerable if we empower ourselves to be leaders in the sustainable economy.
the european union's cohesion policy plays a key role in developing the employment potential of a sustainable economy by helping to reduce regional disparities and boost the economy.
in this context, the regional and local levels should make greater use of the european structural funds to take initiatives to create new sustainable jobs.
on the one hand, they support sustainable growth and on the other hand, they contribute to the ambitious numerical targets that the eu has set itself in the fight against climate change.
the regions must also be encouraged to use the european structural funds and the cohesion fund to create new sustainable jobs.
as with fishery and aquaculture products, i am very committed to promoting quality products and sustainable production.
it is essential, from the socialist point of view, to make this fund sustainable, because globalisation has negative consequences for our entire industrial fabric, even beyond the crisis.
i support its main objective, which is to make the egf sustainable, because beyond the crisis we are going through, globalisation has long-term negative consequences for our industrial jobs, which the european right refuses to accept.
we must tackle the problem of unemployment in a sustainable growth perspective.
some use it for their national budgets, others to finance the measures needed to combat climate change and others - we have contributed to this in belgium in particular - to finance development.
you will allow me, since parliament has taken a very large part in it, to begin with a major subject, which i regard as structural and to which i have devoted a great deal of my energy since you entrusted us with it in february.
i had opened this debate under the spanish presidency in madrid, at the informal council, by presenting the idea of a toolbox for crisis prevention in the banking and financial sector with two simple ideas: prevention always costs less than repair it is true for the environment, it is true for financial crises ; the second simple idea is that taxpayers should no longer be on the front line, banks should be paying for banks.
we are all aware of the challenges, environmental, climate, food and crisis, which are hitting the poorest countries the hardest.
i would simply remind you that today we are basing ourselves on the position of the european food safety authority, which states that there is no indication at present that products from cloned animals or their offspring would pose any new or additional health or environmental risks compared to conventionally bred animals.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, air transport is the safest mode of transport, as it is the one that has achieved the most spectacular results in reducing co2 emissions.
− mr president, honourable members, as we speak commissioner potočnik is in new york for the united nations discussions on the international year of biodiversity, so i am sure you will understand that he is unable to be here in person today.
it therefore falls to me on behalf of the commission to thank mrs de lange for having prepared this very timely report on the protection of biodiversity and the implementation of eu nature legislation.
i would like to highlight the word ‘timely’, as the eu is now at a political crossroads concerning its policy on biodiversity and nature protection.
the commission shares meps’ deep concern about the extremely fast pace of human-induced biodiversity loss.
the commission is aware of, and alarmed at, the huge degradation of the ecosystem services which biodiversity provides, and on which we all depend for our survival.
despite this, however, we have failed to achieve our previous eu target of halting biodiversity loss by 2010. in spite of this failure and in spite of difficult discussions on an unprecedented economic crisis in europe, the spring european council endorsed a new biodiversity vision and target.
it calls on the eu to half the loss of biodiversity and the degradation of ecosystem services by 2020 and restore them, where feasible, while stepping up the eu contribution to averting global biodiversity loss.
one of the key problems is the very nature of biodiversity policy itself.
biodiversity is complex and cross-cutting.
this is a time of metamorphosis in the eu and many policies which have a very significant impact on biodiversity are in the process of being reviewed.
we are thus at a very important crossroads, where we can follow the right road by fully mainstreaming biodiversity in those policies and reach our ‘safe way home’, or we can make the mistake of taking another road and never reaching our final point – the agreed 2020 target – and face irreversible biodiversity loss and potentially catastrophic consequences.
much is said in the resolution about the very worrying trends of biodiversity loss in europe and globally, the huge pressures exerted on species and ecosystems, the possible solutions, the value of ecosystem services and their very strong links with the millennium development goals and the fight against climate change.
the commission is certainly not discouraged and we will be developing a new eu strategy to deliver on the 2020 biodiversity target.
a better use of the available funding will certainly provide higher biodiversity and nature conservation benefits.
we look forward to the discussions with the members of parliament, with a view to working together to shape the package of measures that will allow us to attain our new biodiversity target.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said, this is the international year of biodiversity and this year we are called upon to commit ourselves to solving a triple crisis, the three elements of which are interlinked, which requires a coherent and integrated approach to tackling and overcoming an ecological crisis, which has direct repercussions on our economy and our social model.
this triple crisis is about food security, climate change and biodiversity loss.
it is worth remembering that biodiversity has no price, but its loss, decline and destruction have a cost, which contributes to the increase of poverty and generates considerable imbalances and losses in economic, welfare and cultural terms.
europe has lost 30% of its biodiversity in 40 years.
it is difficult to hide some regrets: the council and commission's lack of reaction to the urgency of action, the regret that the fourth soil directive is still blocked by the council, the regret that the committee on the environment unanimously rejected the bio-conditionality of all public funding, the regret that the issues related to biodiversity have not been more widely integrated into the european union's 2020 strategy, which is capable of ensuring a sustainable way out of the crisis through the ecological conversion of our economic model.
the integration of biodiversity into activities covered by eu legislation must be recognised for its economic value.
i wanted to contribute to this report by stressing the need for compensation for additional biodiversity services provided by farmers, which should take the form of a 'bonus' conditionality for practices in addition to the obligations.
i also wanted to make it clear that the evaluation of projects financed under life+ must be done from the point of view of sustainability, since we unfortunately observe that some of the projects are not maintained when the funding stops.
finally, i share the view that data collection cannot be neglected and i would like to welcome the creation of the national cynegetic observatory in france, which is working on the migration and wintering of land migrants thanks in particular to hunters' records, proof if necessary that hunters are actively engaged in the protection of biodiversity.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, do we need to ensure energy security and independence?
but to ensure full security and independence, it is essential to protect gas and other energy sources from the ravages of speculative markets by declaring them public goods, and to conclude tariff agreements that respect the peoples of the producing countries and secure european consumers.
this could be the task of a european energy agency under the control of the parliament and the council.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
this is a welcome development, which can help to reduce the level of pollution in china and the world, if production is carried out in accordance with wto rules.
secondly, the union cannot continue to tolerate social, health and environmental dumping without taking action, which is directly responsible for too many relocations from our european territory.
as we approach the next summit on 6 october, it is imperative that china and the european union make a determined attempt to move forward together on the issue of climate change.
the introduction of a carbon tax at our borders, for example, is not to be excluded.
it would act as an incentive mechanism for countries that are not going far enough in their climate commitment; i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report and i hope that the commission will be able to support it.
i cannot also deplore the fact that some member states have not yet transposed the services directive, because i hope that the commission will be able to quickly draw up a report to show the climate consequences of the implementation of this text.
the security of gas supply to the union is one of the essential dimensions of the necessary development of a european energy strategy.
in the current context of energy dependence, it is important to bring together producers, distributors, consumers and public authorities to speak with one voice and not to make the union the weak link in energy geopolitics.
this regulation, in combination with the legislation on the internal energy market, will contribute to reducing the union's vulnerability to external supply disruptions.
reducing the eu's energy dependence must be the first priority of our common energy policy.
the means to achieve this are known and coincide with the commitments made to combat climate change: to achieve 20% energy savings - in particular by improving our energy efficiency - and to increase the share of renewable energy to 20% by 2020, while diversifying our energy sources.
europe must also guarantee energy solidarity to each of its members, and to this end it must improve the management of the gas and oil stocks of the member states and provide for the construction of infrastructure to deliver energy to countries threatened with shortages.
we need a european public policy, jointly funded by the european union and the member states, to meet the energy and environmental challenge, but also to help create growth in the coming decades.
it is an energy resource and therefore a common human good.
for these two reasons, it must be used with the parsimony required to protect our ecosystem and with due regard for the general interest of european citizens and of humanity.
it is high time to create a public energy hub to serve the european citizens.
finally, it should be noted that the promises made in ankara in 1963, in the midst of the cold war and for strategic reasons, no longer have any meaning, and that we would waste less time, turks and europeans alike, thinking about a privileged partnership than about an accession which our citizens do not want and which many turks also oppose.
this own-initiative report deplores the lack of progress in the protection of biodiversity.
due to a lack of political will, funding, transposition of european legislation, etc., the absolute minimum target of halting biodiversity loss set for 2010 has not been reached and is being postponed to 2020. the report then lists the measures to be taken to ensure that this essential objective is met.
concerned about the state of our environment and supporting the approach proposed by the rapporteur, esther de lange, i voted in favour of this text.
the current rate of biodiversity loss is alarming.
at european level, the natura 2000 network aims to contribute to biodiversity by conserving natural habitats and species of wild fauna and flora.
the fragmentation of funding in the field of biodiversity is also a problem.
finally, i welcome the recent commission communication on a long-term strategy for biodiversity.
the figures for the evolution of biodiversity are extremely worrying.
this is not acceptable, not only from an ethical point of view, but also from an environmental and economic point of view.
the european commission must therefore ensure that biodiversity is better integrated into its various policy areas, including agriculture, regional policy, industry, development cooperation and research and innovation.
the union should also aim to strengthen international efforts to halt the loss of biodiversity and thus contribute to the achievement of the millennium development goals by 2015. the european parliament has almost unanimously adopted this report and will have to act accordingly when we debate the reform of the common agricultural policy, the fisheries policy or the new financial perspectives.
i voted in favour of this own-initiative report because the european union must do everything possible to halt the loss of biodiversity by 2020 and restore ecosystems.
i deeply regret that the target of halting biodiversity loss by 2010 has not been met.
the european commission must ensure that biodiversity is better integrated into other areas of union action, in particular agriculture, forestry, fisheries, regional and cohesion policy, industry, development cooperation and research and innovation.
our public spending alone will not achieve the union's main objective, which is why corporate social responsibility must also integrate this biodiversity dimension.
80% of the french republic's biodiversity is found in its overseas territories (upe and oct).
these are objective reasons for the need for the european union to make a special effort to protect biodiversity and to exploit its real potential in the octs and the overseas countries and territories.
that is why i have proposed that a special budget line be included in the draft budget for 2011. this budget line will create a specific programme, called best, for the oct and the ors for the protection and enhancement of biodiversity.
human activities are causing biodiversity to decline at an unprecedented rate.
if this evolution continues at the rate observed in recent decades, it will leave a natural environment irreversibly damaged.
i am deeply concerned about the current situation, and while the international political agenda does not give the urgency it should to combat the loss of biodiversity, i support the report by my colleague esther de lange.
the text proposes several ways of strengthening the fight against biodiversity loss in europe and calls for specific policies to support investments - both public and private - that have a positive impact on biodiversity, while those that are harmful to it must be discouraged.
to be truly effective, it is clear that this eu fight must be accompanied by action at international level, and it is imperative that the commission and the member states support the integration of biodiversity protection into global processes, such as the millennium development goals.
2010 was supposed to be the year when the european union finally had to take care of biodiversity.
it adopted three key measures, which it called for to be implemented as a matter of urgency: an integrated approach to biodiversity in all relevant sectoral policies (agriculture, fisheries, transport, etc.
), the application and enforcement of community environmental legislation by the member states, and increased funding for measures in this field beyond the life instrument.
beyond that, it is about raising awareness among our citizens of the state of biodiversity and the serious risks to ecosystems.
only 17% of european citizens are aware that biodiversity is in serious decline.
european solidarity is essential to manage the economic, social, environmental and human consequences of natural disasters in the best possible way.
sustainable development, support for employment and decent work require support for diversification of the economy, respect for ilo standards, the right to a social protection base for all, investment in public services, and the provision of basic needs such as access to water, health and food security.
the right to keep proprietary information secret must not be exercised to the detriment of health and environmental information.
on the text itself, one provision which might seem anecdotal, but probably is not is important: it is the request to the commission to look into the question of water and soil pollution by pharmaceutical residues, accompanied by an assessment to measure, if necessary, the impact of this legislation.
mr president, i would like to return to the environmental impact of medicines.
since 1965, europe has set three criteria for obtaining marketing authorization, namely efficacy, safety and pharmaceutical quality of the medicinal product, but nothing on the impact of medicinal products on the environment.
you also know that there are also high levels of drug residues in sewage treatment plants and in hospital waste water.
there was a debate and in the pharmacovigilance directive this was finally taken into account in the form of a recital, which asks the commission, on the basis of data provided by the european medicines agency, the environment agency and the member states, to publish a report on the scale of the problem and an assessment of the desirability and usefulness of amending the european union legislation on medicines or in other areas.
the aim was to ensure the sustainability of the system, i.e.
the toxicity of certain products, such as pesticides, is obvious and i fully agree with what mr jørgensen has said about the impact on health and the environment of a number of products.
this is the result of an arbitrage that prioritizes short-term interests over the protection of health and the environment.
let us never forget that the health and the environment are not only the defence of our own values, but also the economic interest of the community in defending them.
these measures must be eligible for structural funds, particularly when the problems are particularly acute: the effects of global warming, for example, in the islands, in the mountains, energy supply, de-icing, transport problems, etc.
they have the most important water resources, but their current economic situation makes them vulnerable to global warming.
the alps could play a key role in becoming climate neutral by 2050, as defined by the four environment ministers of the german-speaking alpine countries in june this year.
they should be a preferred site for renewable energy generation and contribute to the 20% target by 2020.
on the one hand, there is a complete lack of consideration for local or regional specificities, and on the other, there is a risk that these regions, having been totally forgotten, will be left to their own devices, without any help in combating depopulation, environmental threats or economic slowdown.
and i also think that, beyond regional policy, we will have to review the common fisheries policy, with the protection of small-scale and local fisheries, agriculture and rural development, by better targeting small-scale production with an increase in direct aid, and then proceed in the same way for transport or energy.
we need to have equal opportunities in all infrastructure, highways, high-speed rail, energy, education, health, digital.
how can we bring together the different aspects of our relationship with partners – for instance during summits – in areas such as the economy, climate, values and security?
that is why i am investing time and energy in maintaining regular contacts with the presidents of other institutions, not least the president of the commission, the rotating council presidency, the central bank, the euro group, and of course yourself, mr president, along with leaders of the political groups and chairs of the parliamentary committees, well beyond what is provided for in the treaty.
it allows us to promote our interests, to uphold our values and to make our contribution to worldwide efforts to address common challenges, from climate change to security and from a shortage of resources to pulling out of the economic crisis.
a bold action to make the cancun climate summit a success?
preserving public service missions, encouraging innovation, improving financing for smes: these are the three objectives to ultimately create sustainable and equitable growth.
due to their characteristics, mountain areas face specific challenges such as, in particular, accelerated population ageing, traffic difficulties, barriers to energy supply and lack of regional integration.
a new report was due to be published in early october on the violence committed, but only on those committed between 1996 and 2003. what a waste of time.
the objective of the ftc programme for italy and tunisia is to encourage the economic, institutional and cultural integration of the tunisian and sicilian regions through a joint sustainable development process in the context of crossborder cooperation.
the second is the promotion of sustainable development, with the management of agricultural and fisheries resources, the protection and enhancement of the natural and cultural heritage and the promotion of the development of renewable energy sources.
the report does indeed reveal some regrets in the area of social affairs and democracy and human rights, but only to say that the shortcomings in this area are a brake on economic development and - i quote the report of the commission itself - that it is accepted that social cohesion is conducive to a better business climate.
how can we have a prosperous and sustainable economy if the borders are closed?
the environmental liability directive, i would remind you, does not cover economic damage.
the protection of the marine environment requires, among other things, maximum security of oil exploitation sites.
is it worth recalling here the serious economic and social consequences of a moratorium, not to mention the danger to our energy independence?
how can the european executive at the same time call for a 'pause' in these oil activities and put itself in a position of energy and economic weakness?
as the tides have repeatedly struck our coasts and affected our minds in the past, we rightly believe that it is of paramount importance to preserve and protect marine ecosystems, animal biodiversity and the economic sectors of fishing and tourism.
secondly, given our imperative of energy independence, it would be extremely risky from a geostrategic point of view to abandon our drilling in the north sea.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak here today on this very important subject, namely biodiversity.
in its conclusions of 15 march 2010, entitled 'biodiversity: after 2010. the council stressed the need to preserve biodiversity and to avoid irreversible damage to ecosystems and their functions, including to protect social and economic stability and to achieve the millennium development goals.
the council recalled that biodiversity plays a central role in the global fight against hunger and food security and is an essential contributor to wealth creation and poverty reduction.
with a view to the 10th conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity, the eu is committed to making an active and constructive contribution to a global consensus on the post-2010 biodiversity action.
the high-level meeting of the united nations general assembly two weeks ago, on 22 september, in new york, was a good opportunity to call on the international community to face the critical state of biodiversity worldwide and also to stress the need to safeguard the basis of life on earth for the benefit of humanity and future generations and to take appropriate initiatives at all levels.
as regards technical assistance to the least developed countries, the council considers that the development and transfer of best practices and technologies are essential in the fight against biodiversity loss, climate change and desertification.
as regards financing, the council considers that the establishment of an effective policy framework for the period after 2010 and the introduction of a new strategic plan for biodiversity will require an appropriate use of resources from all possible sources, both public and private, including new forms of financing and financing of measures to combat climate change.
the council also considered that consideration should be given to the possibility of also providing financial resources for biodiversity by modifying, abolishing or redirecting subsidies which are harmful to biodiversity.
the integration of biodiversity into business activities and other sectoral policies remains a necessity and a priority objective.
in its conclusions of 5 december 2006, the council already noted, in response to the paris message on biodiversity, that biodiversity and the maintenance of ecosystem services should be included in the policy dialogue with partner countries and partner regions.
the council remains convinced that the integration of ecosystem services and biodiversity into development cooperation programmes and subsequent financial support is the only way to achieve sustainable results.
although there is a clear link between the aarhus convention on access to information, participation in decision-making and access to justice on environmental matters on the one hand, and biodiversity on the other, it should be borne in mind that this convention was drawn up in the framework of the united nations economic commission for europe.
− madam president, the european union’s strategic objectives for nagoya are set out in the council conclusions of 22 december 2009 and 15 march 2010 and will be further elaborated and refined by the environmental council on 14 october 2010. three issues stand out in particular as priorities for the european union.
the first is the adoption of the new strategic plan for the convention for the period 2011-2020. it should reflect the best available scientific knowledge about the state of biodiversity and provide an effective framework of implementation that is sufficiently ambitious to trigger step-up action by all the parties to the convention.
this is vital if we are to prevent further species extinctions and enable biodiversity to continue providing the essential goods and services that we all depend on, and especially the poor.
the second strategic priority for the european union is to conclude negotiations on the protocol on access and benefit-sharing, as a key contribution to the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity beyond 2010 and in line with the commitment taken by all the parties at cop 8 in 2006. this is an expectation widely shared by developing country parties to the convention, many of which see it as their top priority.
the third is to ensure that adequate resources are mobilised to enable the implementation of the post-2010 biodiversity policy framework, including the new strategy plan.
the eu as a whole is committed, as part of its 2020 biodiversity target adopted earlier this year, to step up its contribution to averting global biodiversity loss, but i think we can also be pretty proud of what we are actually doing.
over the period 2002-2008, the european union provided over usd 1 billion, approximately eur 740 million, for global biodiversity annually, largely through the thematic programme on environment and natural resources under the development cooperation instrument, but also the edf, both of which include adequate provisions for biodiversity.
member states have also contributed significantly to the recent replenishment of the global environmental facility, for which usd 1.2 billion is earmarked for biodiversity.
this represents a 28% increase compared to the last replenishment, and the new eur 1 billion mdg initiative announced by president barroso at the un general assembly in new york last month can clearly also benefit biodiversity.
the commission is currently updating its own biodiversity-related development cooperation figures, using the same methodology as it has used to account for climate-related funding, and we are of course encouraging member states to do the same so that we can present a consolidated figure in nagoya.
we also need to look at other ways of how we can contribute to enhancing implementation of the convention on biodiversity and help developing country parties deliver on their commitments under the convention, in particular the new post-2010 strategic plan that will be adopted in nagoya.
biodiversity loss is not a new challenge to poverty alleviation, as already mentioned.
the 2010 biodiversity target was incorporated into mdg 7 already in 2002 and the eu itself has explicitly underscored the important linkages between biodiversity and development on many occasions.
just last month in his statement during the high-level event on biodiversity at the united nations general assembly, president barroso remarked that our ability to end poverty and hunger and improve child and maternal health depends on the long-term availability of fresh water, food, medicine and raw materials that nature provides.
this is also recalled in the 2010 mdg report, in the eu policy framework to assist developing countries in addressing food security challenges, and in the commission’s policy coherence for development work programme 2010-2013, which includes a specific target for biodiversity and accompanying indicators as part of the operational framework to enhance the coherence of eu policies with development objectives.
what is perhaps new is the increasing knowledge and awareness about economics of biodiversity loss and the extent to which this undermines prospects for alleviating poverty in the long term.
the international study of the economics of ecosystems and biodiversity (teeb) shows how costly biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation is to our economies, including the economies in developing countries.
so it is not any more a moral question, it is actually a question of our quality of life, and yet the conservation of biodiversity and ecosystems is not seen as a development priority.
it is hoped that teeb will go some way towards changing this situation so that more of our developing country partners give higher priority to biodiversity conservation and sustainable use in their development strategies but, even where it is not a focus of action in country and regional support strategies, european development policy nevertheless requires that environment and sustainable management of natural resources be treated as a cross-cutting issue to be integrated into all development activities.
both the development cooperation instrument and the european development fund include provisions for addressing biodiversity.
to conclude, with regard to mechanisms for ensuring the right of access to information and public participation in decision-making related to biodiversity, the eu fully supports the draft cop 10 decision on the strategic plan, which urges parties and other governments to enable broad and effective participation in the full implementation of the objectives of the convention and strategic plan.
our strategies to combat biodiversity loss are failing and we know the causes of that failure.
climate change, biodiversity is declining, and humanity must resolve to adapt faster and harder.
climate change, the fight against biodiversity loss and the fight against poverty - these three challenges and the responses to them are closely linked.
we have a responsibility to bring about and initiate a new model of development that is fairer, more equitable and more sustainable.
the first challenge is, of course, to start protecting and restoring biodiversity.
this requires adequate funding, the elimination of all public subsidies harmful to biodiversity and a dedicated budget which we propose to increase tenfold.
but is the european union prepared to commit 0.3% of its gdp to its policy of combating biodiversity loss and to convince the oecd countries to do the same?
the second challenge: the cost of biodiversity loss to society, is just beginning to be assessed.
it is estimated to represent about 1% of world gdp, but this estimate does not take into account the social, cultural, moral and scientific value of biodiversity.
as such, is it determined, on the one hand, to defend the principle of the non-patentability of living things and, on the other hand, to support the repayment of the ecological debt to the countries of the south by supporting the retroactivity of the system to be adopted?
sustainable development in europe is based on a highly competitive social market economy, which implies full employment and social progress, the fight against social exclusion and discrimination, the promotion of justice and the eradication of poverty.
i therefore take the liberty of making a proposal to you, which i am putting to your consideration and debate: it would be the creation of a new mechanism, allowing the european central bank to buy, including by monetary creation - as all the banks in the world are now doing - all or part of the debt of states when necessary and to create, at the same time, a european fund for human, social and ecological development.
in order to carry out regional cohesion policies which are relevant to the objective of sustainable development of the territories, which, i remind you, is our common objective, the gross domestic product index must be supplemented by other measurement instruments, other indicators, particularly in the social and environmental fields.
it is necessary to be able to assess the level of unemployment, precariousness, education, health, environmental quality, air and water quality, protection of resources, access to basic services, etc.
therefore, and i will end with this, every effort must be made to create, alongside gross domestic product, a set of social and environmental indicators which will enable regional cohesion policies to move towards development based on the three pillars of sustainable development, economic, social and environmental.
finally, as regards the priorities of this policy: many have spoken of social cohesion, particularly through the esf, the fight against climate change and territorial cooperation across borders, which is also a priority of the commission, but i shall not dwell on this.
i would ask you to consider the exact and original wording of paragraph 35 of the resolution which is being put to the vote, which stresses the importance of corporate social responsibility incorporating biodiversity, that the french version be taken into account and that the word 'social', which has disappeared from the english version, be reinstated and that the version be corrected.
the oil spill caused by the deepwater horizon oil rig in the gulf of mexico last spring is the reason for this resolution by the european parliament's environment committee, which aims to draw attention to the urgency of preventing oil spills.
i therefore voted for this resolution because it is essential that we succeed in establishing strict european rules for the prevention of accidents on oil platforms and that the union strengthens legislation on environmental liability.
the highest levels of precaution, environmental protection, safety and security are essential principles for oil activities in europe, on which we cannot compromise.
it is not only the survival and future of our european oil industry in times of crisis, but also our energy independence.
nearly 5 million barrels of oil spilled into the waters of the gulf of mexico between april and september 2010 following the explosion of the deepwater horizon oil platform, causing extensive damage to both the region's economy and ecosystem.
in my view, these standards must guarantee both the sustainability of europe's energy supply and the safety and sustainability of offshore activities.
but their impact on the environment must be controlled, and we must ensure that they do not pose a threat to marine and coastal areas and biodiversity in the future.
this is a major challenge for the international and environmental image of the european union, which is recording very positive results in this area.
i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the eu biodiversity goals.
it is regrettable that despite the commitments made by the eu at the european summit in gothenburg in 2001, the loss of biodiversity has still not been halted.
this resolution recalls that biodiversity plays a key role in the fight against world hunger and food security; and that it is a prerequisite for any efforts to mitigate and adapt to climate change.
it is time for all member states to fully implement natura 2000 legislation and the habitats and birds directives and take initiatives to preserve marine biodiversity.
this policy for biodiversity must be pursued at both european and international level in order to integrate these concerns, in particular in the union's development cooperation policy and external actions and in any future agreement concluded within the wto.
the objective of halting biodiversity loss by 2010 has not been met, either at global or european level.
as the parliament's resolution points out, the depletion of biodiversity, if nothing is done quickly to reverse it, will be considerable and uncontrollable in the medium and long term.
the protection of biodiversity is an essential element in achieving the millennium development goals.
with the cancún climate change conference just a few weeks away, it is therefore high time that the international community, and the european union in particular, in view of its commitment to environmental protection, took up the report 'the economics of ecosystems and biodiversity' (teeb) and its recommendations at the nagoya conference.
it is urgent to reiterate that the struggles for biodiversity, against climate change and against poverty are closely linked, as are the responses to address them.
africa is exhausted by the consequences of the crisis, natural disasters, extreme poverty, wars, epidemics, so it is urgent to help it to implement a sustainable health policy.
only through these combined efforts will africa be able to have a sustainable health system that is accessible to all.
we must move from a cohesion policy based on the reunification of the continent to a cohesion policy based on the planning and development of the european territory: to make the union the most competitive territory in the world in economic and social terms and the most sustainable in environmental terms: this is an ambition linked to the europe of results that citizens expect.
as such, trade policy is not within the competence of the high representative, but as a former trade commissioner, i have no doubt that she will be able to create the dialogue necessary to ensure that trade policy properly respects the objectives of the union's external action, as set out in the treaty, in particular sustainable development, poverty eradication and the protection of human rights.
it is enshrined in article 208 of the lisbon treaty, and we have stated in the european consensus on development, that the primary objective of the european union's development cooperation is the eradication of poverty in the context of sustainable development, in particular by striving to achieve the millennium development goals.
however, the achievement of all the millennium development goals in the context of sustainable development is a collective responsibility, whereby all partners should respect the commitments they have made.
it is therefore important to stress that their achievement requires comprehensive strategies including democratic governance, protection of human rights and the rule of law, economic growth for the poor, private sector development, trade development, human and social development, and environmental sustainability.
besides, the recent and current global crisis – from food and fuel price shocks to economic instability and climate change – threatens both past achievements and future prospects.
there was no blame game; rather, the gathering gave new energy, impetus and hope with regard to attaining the goals.
to meet the goals it is also of paramount importance that we are more creative in enhancing the impact of our aid, in promoting more sustainable and more inclusive growth, and in mobilising other and additional sources of finance for development.
sustainable progress depends primarily on developing a country’s capacity to generate inclusive and sustainable growth.
in november, i plan to launch a green paper and public consultation to gather views on how to improve our policies and instruments to better act on the enabling factors for sustainable and inclusive growth in partner countries, thereby tackling the root causes of poverty, bringing strong added value to our development cooperation.
member states are currently taking fiscal consolidation measures to ensure the long-term sustainability of public finances.
it also means respecting the environment and upholding the principle of equality between human beings everywhere.
in this crisis we think it is absolutely essential and we ask the council to follow parliament in its wisdom in the climate we are in today.
our parliament has been able to resist the pressure to impose budgetary austerity at the expense of our priorities, particularly in the field of sustainable development.
secondly, to encourage reflection and thus the balance of power so that our resources are re-valued in the next multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. the european union must obtain its own resources, such as taxation of financial transactions or the introduction of a european carbon tax.
the lisbon treaty gives the union new or strengthened competences: a common energy policy, a common foreign and security policy, a common immigration policy, a common space policy, etc.
a little over two years after the collapse of lehman brothers, parliament must not miss a historic opportunity to lay the foundations for a new model of development, based on more sustainable resources and, above all, on a fairer redistribution of wealth and solidarity.
while the causes of the disaster and its full impact are still under investigation, it is clear that the most severe damage is in the immediate vicinity of the accident and the directly affected human settlements, agricultural land and ecological systems.
according to the information provided by the hungarian authorities, the red mud does not contain high concentrations of heavy metals and is therefore not considered as hazardous waste.
the day i was there, yesterday, there were around 1 200 rescuers from the civil protection, environment, health and police departments working tirelessly on the ground.
these include: minimising the further spread of red mud via air and water; steps to assess the risk to human health and mitigate them; steps to assess the risk of further damage and mitigate them; environmental monitoring; and remediation and revitalisation measures.
the commission is also looking into the question of environmental legislation.
at a first analysis, the existing eu waste legislation, the directive on waste from extractive industries, the upcoming industrial emissions directive replacing the integrated pollution prevention and control directive, the directive on the control of major accident hazards, the so-called seveso directive, and the waste framework directive provide a sufficient framework for regulating potentially dangerous industrial activities and managing waste in a way that does not pose risks to human health and the environment.
we also have environmental legislation that deals with post-accident damage, namely the environmental liability directive.
our report on the implementation of the environmental liability directive shows a rather slow take-up of the financial security instruments to cover for liabilities, and this is the case in ajka.
following the ajka sludge accident, the commission will take stock of the lessons learnt at european level, and in particular the appropriateness and the correct implementation and enforcement of european environmental legislation; the measures needed to make sure that the affected population and industry at risk are covered by appropriate insurance schemes; and the way forward to strengthen european disaster monitoring and response capacity and enhance our instruments to express solidarity with our members and our citizens in moments of need.
on the other hand, i cannot be satisfied that this sludge, which is particularly toxic - we have seen images on television of people who have been burned because they have been in contact with this sludge - should be classified as inert waste.
this is absolutely unacceptable and it is essential that the commission takes the initiative to review the list of hazardous waste, to include these sludges and at the same time to check whether other types of products could be included in this list.
in the face of this situation, i have felt a sense of responsibility in this parliament to send a strong message to the other institutions, to the commission and to the council, to say that we must rethink the added value of the european project, and that this is summed up in a few words: we have a collective responsibility and we must, at the level of the european union, implement a strategy that allows us, in the field of energy, to be strong inside in order to be strong outside.
this is the challenge of bringing the revision of the financial perspective into line with this mobilization around a strategy for a european energy community.
the seoul summit will focus on three major issues: reform of the international monetary system, stability of raw materials, particularly food and energy, and global governance.
ladies and gentlemen, we will only be able to influence global governance, to have a real presence on the international scene, if we make this often unpopular effort to clean up our finances and if we stick to our priorities: the fight against global warming or development policy.
the problem is how to achieve our aim, and i do not think that the commission should ask, as the environment council does, for yet another study to determine whether climate degradation is really such that it is appropriate to increase the co2 reduction of the european union - which it did yesterday, when it is completely absurd to ask for a new study.
if we invest in the energy of tomorrow, in the production of tomorrow, we win.
in our report we ask the commission to examine annually the needs for public and private investment and to provide us with a scoreboard that will enable us to have a long-term investment strategy for employment, and therefore for european citizens, a strategy based on the sustainability of our vision and a concept of solidarity which is at the heart of the european union.
i supported the european parliament's resolution on the draft general budget of the eu for 2011. if we are to be able to take on the political priorities of the european union, the new expenditure made necessary by the economic crisis and the new powers brought about by the lisbon treaty, we must support an ambitious draft budget, capable of making the necessary investments to improve employment, to return to sustainable growth, in short a budget that is up to the standards of the europe we want.
in the current economic climate, i am pleased that the council and parliament were able to agree quickly on an ambitious revision of european legislation in this area.
the text proposes that this type of minimum income should represent 60% of the median wage in each country and above all be part of an overall strategy of integration, return to sustainable employment and access to public services, the first of which is housing.
the establishment of a real financial supervision, which we have begun to adopt but which will have to be considerably strengthened; a financial transaction tax to regulate markets and finance public goods, and reduce government deficits; the coordination of member states' economic policies and budgets for sustainable growth; appointment of a mr or mrs euro, to put a pilot in the euro area and unify its representation in the g20, the imf; the commission has also proposed the creation of a european energy community.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the text calls for the establishment of a genuine european energy community.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
mr president, i thank my colleague mr grenz for taking account of international standards on health, safety and the environment, including, of course, exposure to pesticides.
in view of the loss of tariff preference caused by the wto agreement, it is clear that the main objective of this programme is to ensure the sustainability of acp banana exports and thus to support their competitiveness.
with this new regulation, we are responding to this demand because our citizens will be better informed, in particular, about the social and environmental conditions under which the goods they buy are produced.
if we really want to safeguard and develop industrial employment in the union, if we do not want to deceive the european consumer and protect his health, if we want to ensure that the social and environmental achievements of our societies are maintained, it is urgent to make the indication of the origin of manufactured products compulsory, even if it means breaking the ultra-liberal dogmas that have been the foundation of europe: an indication that must be serious, and not a deception that would consist in presenting a commodity as 'made in europe' when it is only the assembly of parts from all over the world and the label would be 'made in europe'.
finally, concerning compensation for the damage caused by lost containers; this can be addressed under directive 2009/20/ec concerning maritime insurance, and directive 2005/35/ec concerning maritime pollution and sanctions in the event of offences covers cases when oil-polluting substances have been dumped into the sea.
directive 2004/35/ec concerning environmental liability also establishes strict liability for operators who cause damage to the environment through the transportation by sea of dangerous goods or polluting goods.
mr president, commissioner, as mr simpson has pointed out, several thousand containers are lost every year in european waters and represent a very serious danger in two respects: in terms of pollution, which has been widely discussed, but also because a number of them do not sink and often float between two waters where they are difficult to detect, they represent a major danger to the safety of navigation, whether it is commercial navigation for that matter but especially smaller fishing or pleasure boats with, as we know, serious accidents that put human life at risk.
the label must also be capable of giving, in the case of toxic or highly toxic products, an agreed signal which makes it possible to predict and contain the environmental risk.
we are asking the commission very strongly not to be satisfied with the fact that we do not have the means or that the existing means are not sufficient, that is not the case, there is environmental safety, but there are also lives at stake, we must remember that.
firstly, priority should be given to the preservation of the marine and coastal environment.
mr president, i think the report shows clearly the challenges facing the marine environment in terms of fisheries, aquaculture, transport, tourism, energy, mineral and biological resources, and research into climate change.
only a system of clear rules can inform them about the social and environmental conditions of manufacture, protect them from health risks and finally help them to make informed choices.
i have thus recalled that the renewable energy sector, including offshore wind, should be given special support, as it meets the european objectives of diversifying energy sources and can, by 2020, lead to a gain of 410000 jobs in europe, according to a commission study.
its completion should allow the strengthening of economic activities at sea and along the coasts, better employment, but also greater environmental protection and the development of research and innovation in the marine sector.
the amendment tabled with mr dess and 77 other meps requires that imported agricultural products comply with european standards on health, social and consumer protection, the environment and animal welfare.
the parliament therefore called for 'the importation into the european union of agricultural products to be allowed only if they comply with european standards on consumer protection, animal welfare and environmental protection and minimum social standards'.
for the first time, these funds, whether or not they are based in europe, will be subject to controls, activity restrictions and greater transparency; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
despite the number of pages and the apparent energy of the rapporteur, this report is frighteningly weak.
regulation (ec) no 663/2009 of the european parliament and of the council established the european energy recovery programme (eerp) to contribute to economic recovery by providing a financial envelope of eur 3.98 billion for the years 2009 and 2010. aid for sustainable energy investment is most effective and profitable when concentrated at the local level.
it provides for the creation of a financial instrument to support energy efficiency and renewable energy initiatives that have a rapid, measurable and substantial impact on economic recovery in the union, enhancing energy security and reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
in the current difficult economic environment, this financial instrument, by allowing €146 million of uncommitted appropriations to be devoted to energy saving, energy efficiency and renewable energy projects by 2014, will help to support growth and stimulate the recovery of economic activity in the eu, while fighting climate change and promoting environmental protection.
it also called for the strengthening of the transatlantic economic council and stressed the need to reform the international financial system, develop cooperation in the fields of energy, the environment, intellectual property and consumer protection, and judicial and police cooperation.
how can it welcome the swift agreement, the transfer of pnr data, the 'open skies' agreement between europe and the united states, the greenhouse gas emission allowance exchange and the anti-democratic institutions preparing for gmt?
in addition, it is essential to achieve an ambitious and binding post-2012 greenhouse gas emissions regime.
the resolution reflects the fact that the current system is overly focused on controls, resulting in waste of resources and low participation.
the research funding system, too focused on control, leads to a waste of resources.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation is a very important one.
the livestock sector is taking on the consequences of strict rules demanded by our institutions, the strictest in the world in terms of food safety and quality, the environment and animal health and welfare.
i agree with jean-paul gauzès when he said: the commission's proposals are not only a good way of dealing with the problems of the environment, but also a way of dealing with the problems of the environment.
i know we'll adopt it tomorrow; it allows the sustainable exploitation of the stock of horse mackerel from a socioeconomic and environmental point of view.
this plan establishes a new method for deciding on the total allowable catch which will ensure the long-term sustainability of the stock.
the rapporteur stresses the need to combat waste, and this is welcome.
on the other hand, a total ban on waste disposal is not realistic, as we all know.
i hope that the european commission will support the sector which is setting up selective gear and making fishing economically and environmentally sustainable.
the adoption of these amendments by the committee on the environment has allowed for a greater emphasis on patients' rights to information rather than making the provision of information an option for the pharmaceutical industries.
the commission proposed on 1 october 2014. for environmental reasons, i believe it is important to diversify our sources of energy production and to promote sustainable production methods.
the majority of the european parliament therefore decided to extend the state aid until 31 december 2018. i decided to abstain on this final vote because i believe that priority should be given to sustainable energy sources but that at the same time it is also important to take account of the economic and social consequences of mine closures.
in their search for "renewable" energy, these countries may have to replace coal by buying nuclear power from their neighbours.
i cannot therefore, unfortunately, see that in this field, as in so many others, europe in brussels has not wanted to protect our industries and therefore our jobs, preferring to waste colossal fortunes on globalist projects so far removed from the problems of our fellow citizens.
the latest economic forecasts do not allow us to hope for the return to the strong, sustainable and inclusive growth that the european union has set itself as its objective by 2020. the reality is also that the current draft budget does not take account of the financing of the new competences conferred on the union by the lisbon treaty and does not follow up our requests to carry out the mid-term review of the financial cycle provided for in the 2007-13 agreement.
i would like to take the example of my friend alain lamassoure: 27 armies, no more enemies; a customs union, 27 administrations; research programmes funded 15 to 20 times over without coordination; transeuropean networks which deserve to be interconnected, energy networks, etc.
in substance, the union's contribution to strong, sustainable and balanced growth is now clear and is based on a number of principles: fiscal consolidation plans aimed at sustainable and differentiated growth, the europe 2020 strategy for the structural reforms needed to support in particular job creation, the financial sector and market reform agenda and, finally, the strengthening of the union's economic governance.
the g20 partners committed to reducing excessive imbalances and to maintaining current account imbalances at sustainable levels.
finally, i strongly welcome the g20’s commitment to the g20 anti-corruption action plan, to future work on energy-related issues and to sparing no effort in reaching a balanced and successful outcome at the climate negotiations in cancún.
the world economy is indeed at real risk from the shortages being organized by some producing countries - i am thinking in particular of china - and speculation on agricultural commodities is profoundly immoral because it adds to the climate hazards an additional risk of famine for developing countries.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the scale of the global crisis, the social and environmental emergencies call for resolute action by the european union at the g20, which is issuing statements of intent on the regulation of international finance.
firstly, the wto negotiations must not turn the world into a capitalist jungle but must apply social, environmental and job-creation standards to the trading system.
on the contrary, tax havens should be drained and a mechanism for taxing capital movements invented, a global fund for stabilizing commodity prices, starting with agricultural commodity prices, a re-design of the international monetary system with a new role for the international monetary fund, aimed at employment, sustainable human development, with the creation of a world currency against the law of the dollar.
every year, about 9.3 million tonnes of electronic waste are produced in europe.
this waste is a major environmental challenge.
as they reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we thought it would be appropriate to tolerate the substances they contain.
this has, however, naturally been the subject of debate on the priorities of the union's environmental policy.
the increasingly frequent replacement of these various equipment raises the question of the waste and hazardous substances contained in this waste.
waste electrical and electronic equipment is increasing and includes several hazardous substances.
these substances can be released into the environment and harm human health if not handled appropriately.
finally, and this is a crucial point, we have obtained the exclusion of photovoltaic panels in order to encourage the development of renewable energy technologies in europe.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i could have limited my speech to simply recalling the images of this summer in russia or south asia, recalling the absolute urgency of combating climate change, and since we are talking about europe, to move immediately or as soon as possible to a 30% target by 2020 in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
i am not necessarily a believer in the carbon market, but if we stay at 20%, the fact is that we will treat the carbon market as an endangered species and not as a lever to fight climate change.
if we set a binding target of 20% energy efficiency, this would mean a million jobs in europe.
that is a saving of €1,000 per european household, and since commissioner oettinger was talking about nabucco, 20% energy savings in europe is the equivalent of 15 nabucco.
a few potentially risky sectors are affected, but the tools are there and so far the sectors that threaten europe with annihilation are the sectors that have gained in european energy policy.
they have made billions of euros from european climate policy.
according to ernst young's 2010 barometer, china and the united states are the most attractive countries for renewable energy development.
take this leadership in energy transition and new economy.
we have to learn from the failure in copenhagen and it is therefore absolutely essential that the european union sets itself extremely ambitious targets, and that is why it is essential, both for the climate and for our industry and our economy, that the 30% target in the resolution can be voted on tomorrow.
if we want to boost our industry, if we want to remain leaders or become leaders in new sectors, whether energy efficiency or renewable energy, it is essential to have this objective in the union.
let's remember that deforestation is responsible for 20 percent of greenhouse gas emissions.
mr president, commissioner, minister, i hope that unity and realism will be lost tomorrow when we vote on our resolution on the 16th conference of the parties on climate change.
it is the world that must fight climate change, not europe alone.
green technologies must benefit the greatest number of people, but we must not sell our present and future knowledge, even in the fight against climate change.
similarly, the demand for common methods of calculating emissions and for the verification and publication of data so that all emitters are subject to the same scale seems to be a legitimate demand and not a negotiating tool.
developing countries believe that developed countries use human rights clauses to introduce a form of disguised protectionism, while developed countries denounce social and environmental dumping by emerging countries.
i wanted to take a positive approach by showing how social and environmental standards and commercial interests can be mutually reinforcing if all countries play by the same rules.
it would act in accordance with its founding texts, which state that the european union must contribute to sustainable development, free and fair trade and the protection of human rights.
at the multilateral level, the european union should encourage international organisations, in particular the world trade organisation, to take greater account of social and environmental standards.
on the environment, i believe that access to green goods and technologies should be a priority because they not only promote new forms of employment policy but also create new growth opportunities for european companies that are very successful in this field.
the establishment of a genuine world environmental organization which could be seized in the event of environmental dumping should also be considered.
while i welcome the fact that the new generation of free trade agreements contain a binding human rights clause, i would like to see this practice extended to the sustainable development chapter as well.
it should include a set of social and environmental standards to be respected by all its trading partners.
these basic standards could be supplemented on a case-by-case basis by additional conventions depending on the degree of economic, social and environmental development of the country concerned.
i therefore propose that impact assessments be carried out before, during and after the negotiations and that they no longer only cover sustainable development but also human rights.
as you know, the gsp requires ratification of some 30 international conventions on human rights, the environment, labour and good governance.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that at the very moment when the european union is trying to redefine its trade policy after the treaty of lisbon, and at the same time trying to link it with its industrial policy, it is welcome that three reports are being presented to this parliament at the same time on issues which ultimately fall within the same field of political debate and public debate on 'what is trade and how is trade linked to social issues, environmental issues or human rights issues'?
in fact, we are in a permanent state of schizophrenia: companies are moving to other countries, social rights are being called into question, environmental damage is increasing, and at the same time we are negotiating free trade agreements, we are negotiating a whole series of measures within the wto which, unfortunately, are completely out of step with the public debate in which citizens are trying to engage.
how can we explain to our public opinion today that a football which is sold on the european market, produced under decent working conditions which respect the environment, and a football which is made by child labour or in a country where trade union organisation is prohibited, are the same football?
we can no longer explain this to our public opinions; so we have to - it's our responsibility today - integrate these environmental and social issues into trade.
on my report specifically, in relation to trade, there are a number of countries in europe today whose imports of products are very much offsetting the declines in their own emissions.
a third of europe's emissions are not produced in europe but are imported goods.
it is therefore essential that we integrate climate change into our trade.
we have stopped saying that trade liberalization and the fight against climate change will destroy 100 per cent of our industries in europe, where, in a way, we don't care because the climate issue must come first.
when we worked on the issue of carbon leakage, for example, we tried to specify in each case which sector of activity could be put at risk and what tools could be used to protect this sector.
after the international crisis, the economic and social damage it has caused, but also the debates it has provoked, the expectations of citizens and the political expectations that have been expressed to learn from it, our common conviction is that europe's trade policy must more than ever contribute to the objectives of regulating globalisation, and in particular to its social and environmental objectives.
they have benefited more than anyone else from the opening of markets, not only to access consumers but also to outsource part of their production and diversify their supply chain, often from countries with low production costs and, above all, with less stringent social and environmental rules.
trade liberalization has been accompanied by fierce competition between countries to attract foreign investment and increased competition between firms, and this has too often led to intolerable abuses of working conditions, violations of human rights and damage to the environment.
from the bhopal disaster in the indian subsidiary of a multinational chemical company, which left thousands of victims, to the impunity of the parent company today, to the behaviour of oil and mining companies in africa, burma and many other countries, which are destroying their environment, reducing their workers to slavery, from child labour in textile factories in asia to the murders of trade unionists on farms in central america, there are many examples.
this has given rise, for many years now, to a debate and a struggle, which has been repeatedly echoed in this parliament by the adoption of resolutions on the social and environmental responsibility of enterprises.
this is both understandable, because trade agreements are about binding legal rules between states, while corporate social responsibility is about voluntary commitments by companies, but at the same time it is paradoxical, because csr and social and environmental clauses are pushing in the same direction, that is, towards a globalisation that is more in line with human rights, the environment and sustainable development.
we therefore propose to introduce csr in trade agreements and, in concrete terms, to introduce a corporate social responsibility clause in the sustainable development chapters, in particular of ftas, with a number of clear and verifiable commitments by companies.
finally, we propose that in the event of failure, serious breaches of csr commitments, but also breaches of social rights, social and environmental laws, there should be mechanisms to ... (the president withdraws the speaker)
the committee on development and cooperation has tabled a number of amendments.
i would like to reiterate that when it comes to climate change, it is the most vulnerable people, and in particular indigenous peoples, who are affected and that their participation in policy-making, particularly on trade, is therefore essential.
i would also like to reiterate that the european union's trade policies must be consistent with the fight against climate change and the fight against poverty.
we call for environmental clauses to be included in all eu and wto trade agreements, for the review of clean development mechanisms, for a real transfer of technology and for the fight against bio-piracy.
finally, and most importantly, with 20% of emissions coming from transport, we need to move towards short circuits in agriculture first, which will create jobs both at home and in developing countries and reduce our emissions.
if competition is free, then all dumping is possible, starting with tax, social, monetary and environmental dumping, and competition is distorted.
to get out of this situation which is killing industrial employment and plunging workers and their families into poverty, it is necessary to establish strict controls on capital movements by the member states, to destroy tax havens, to take the essential sectors for life - energy, water, medicines, agriculture and training - out of the market and, above all, to define and enforce environmental and social criteria which guarantee equality in commercial activity and the rights of workers.
my next consideration is that, in order to leverage trade policy to achieve a better social and environmental outcome, we need to set feasible objectives.
you know that we are currently negotiating a free trade agreement with india, where the whole matter of sustainability also has to be addressed.
india is very sceptical about such a sustainability chapter in the agreement, but we insist – and we will continue to insist – that such a chapter has its place, and i think that ultimately it will be included.
i would simply like to ask that, later on when you will have to discuss this, you take into account the fact that the ideas of individual third countries on such a sustainability chapter may concern not only the content of it but also the philosophy of certain third countries on this issue.
with respect to the jadot report, i have heard calls for a climate chapter in each bilateral agreement.
i am all for environmental sustainability because the future does not belong to us.
where i think we must be careful, however, is in recognising that the many elements which need to come into play to provide a satisfactory response to the climate change challenge – from emission caps to financing – cannot be translated into provisions in our trade agreements.
whether it is also possible in the development round that we have just discussed, the doha round, is much more questionable because there is certainly not agreement among all the participants in this multilateral process to have a climate chapter in the final outcome.
i think this would be a considerable contribution to development in sustainable conditions.
it has also enabled us to work towards a common goal: to make trade less impervious to the notions of human rights, labour law and environmental law.
i have noted his reply on the climate chapter, and i hope that on the other points we will also be able to work and make proposals which will translate into concrete action and the inclusion of a number of elements in the trade agreements.
finally, the fact that the wto trade negotiation - which is undoubtedly a very complicated negotiation - is broken also offers a lot of opportunities for the european union to incorporate more innovative elements into bilateral agreements and to try to build new types of trade agreements that better integrate the european union's environmental, climate, human rights or social rights objectives.
it can therefore be imagined that the issues of how to integrate social and environmental issues into production costs are an important part of defining the reality of comparative advantage.
there are still nuances to be found in calling for the social and environmental dimensions to be taken into account even more in trade policy and in the agreements we are negotiating.
judicial cooperation will also ensure that a parent company cannot escape liability for the actions of one of its subsidiaries or a subcontractor when it has committed violations of environmental or social rules.
i believe that, based on the dialogue we have started today with the commission, we must continue to ensure that our csr objectives are consistent with our sustainable development objectives in international trade agreements.
(parliament adopted the resolution) mr president, we propose to change the end of paragraph 22 by replacing 'prevent' with 'inform' and the sentence at the end becomes: 'reiterates also parliament's request to the commission and member states to inform the european parliament about loans granted by export credit agencies and the european investment bank to projects that have a negative impact on the climate'.
as the european union is expanding its competences in the field of human rights (inclusion of the charter of fundamental rights in primary law) and sustainable development (one of the five major europe 2020 objectives), i felt it was important to support the report by my colleague tokia saifi to better take these issues into account in the union's trade agreements.
it naturally proposes to strengthen cooperation within existing international organisations, to systematise the inclusion of clauses on these matters, but also innovates by calling for the creation of a world environment organisation, which could be seized in the event of environmental dumping.
the scheme also contains the possibility of a carbon inclusion mechanism.
this dual instrument would thus make it possible to combat emissions transfers to third countries.
international trade agreements should be an opportunity for the eu to promote social and environmental standards with its partners.
the report, adopted by a large majority, contains proposals to ensure that imported products comply with the same social and environmental standards as european products and that in the event of social or environmental dumping, there should be a possibility of appeal both to the ilo and to a world environmental organisation which should be set up rapidly.
the free trade agreements currently under negotiation must contain clauses on human rights but also on economic, social and environmental standards to be respected; what 's the matter ?
i voted in favour of the report on human rights and social and environmental standards in international trade agreements because it is essential that eu trade policy is consistent with its political objectives.
the text, substantially improved by the s&d group, makes it clear that trade can no longer be an end in itself but that any agreement must now respect a number of social and environmental clauses.
but beyond my doubts as to the real significance of the human rights text, the desire to establish free trade agreements everywhere and the promotion of the exchange of polluting rights, the so-called 'carbon market', prevent me from voting for this text.
this subjection has international consequences because most of these energy sources are foreign.
the treaty of lisbon created new competences for the european union in the field of energy.
with this in mind, the european parliament has adopted, with my support, an energy strategy for the period 2011-2020. it will support investment in this area and encourage initiatives on renewable energy.
this strategy thus addresses both the short-term energy security needs and the anticipation of future challenges to europe's energy needs.
i voted in favour of mrs kolarska-bobińska's motion for a resolution because i share her views on the overall direction of the future energy strategy of the european union: towards greater autonomy in relation to fossil fuel-supplying third countries, towards a break with the energy-isolated member states which are still not properly connected to the european energy system, towards the promotion of the development of renewable energies and towards external energy supply under the supervision of the new european external action service.
we need a coherent and forward-looking european energy strategy.
the development of a genuine european energy strategy is now more than necessary.
as mrs kolarska-bobinska's report explains, the european union is highly dependent on energy imports and has serious shortcomings in energy legislation.
i agree with the rapporteur that the european union must provide itself with the material and financial means to achieve its objectives, in particular by providing substantial support for research and development in the energy sector.
it is becoming increasingly necessary to significantly develop the construction of gas pipelines capable of bringing natural gas from all over the world to european territories, and to improve the interconnections between the energy networks of the member states in order to improve solidarity between them.
the european union is now one of the major players in the international energy market.
in voting in favour of this resolution i also wanted to reaffirm that energy efficiency must be a priority for the european union.
this seems to me to be the best way to reduce the eu's energy dependence, but also and above all to combat climate change, which is now an absolute imperative.
this text is an ode to nuclear power, the carbon market and the desertec project.
the week before the opening of the climate conference in cancún, the european parliament voted a resolution on the objectives of the summit.
the failure of the long-awaited copenhagen conference is still on everyone's minds, and everyone hopes that this new opportunity to advance international climate cooperation will not be wasted.
while my colleagues in the epp political group and i wanted to keep a 20% greenhouse gas emission reduction target by 2020, which would have given us a reasonable basis for negotiating with the americans and the chinese, the greens and the socialists succeeded in getting the unrealistic 30% target adopted.
with just a few days to go before the opening of the cancún climate change conference, the joint resolution voted by parliament calls on 'the heads of state and government of the world to show real authority and political will during the negotiations'.
concrete and rapid action is needed because the evidence is compelling: our commitments as they stand are not likely to minimise the damage of climate change.
on targets, we call for more ambition: we need to adopt a target of 30% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the union by 2020 compared to 1990 levels (paragraph 16).
it is true that the fight against climate change has become one of the major political challenges in recent years, but we have not yet had the desired results: energy efficiency and the 20% rate of renewable energies to be achieved by 2020, for example, are not on the agenda!
the european union will have to speak with one voice and be ambitious and persuasive at the climate change conference in cancún, lest the failure of copenhagen be repeated.
concrete and rapid action is needed because the evidence is compelling: our commitments as they stand are not likely to minimise the damage of climate change.
the major objective to be achieved is a 30% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in the union by 2020 compared to 1990 levels.
we also need to get a commitment from industrialized countries like the united states to developing countries to help them fight and adapt to climate change, by fighting deforestation, desertification, etc.
it is time for our governments to take stock of the climate challenges ahead and to build a political consensus to put in place a truly global policy to combat climate change.
the european union adopted an ambitious target in 2008 under the french presidency to reduce its co2 emissions by 20% by 2020. this objective is already very difficult to win over the other countries involved in the international climate change negotiations.
proposing a new target of 30% reduction in co2 emissions in the european union is therefore completely disproportionate and that is why i voted against this draft resolution.
after the failure of the copenhagen conference and the many disappointed hopes for the setting of ambitious targets to combat climate change, the european union must commit itself with conviction to achieving a convincing result at the cancun conference.
we have therefore adopted a resolution in the european parliament calling for the european union to increase its commitment to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 from 20% to 30%.
i voted for the resolution on the cancun climate change conference because, following the failure of the last copenhagen conference, it is more urgent than ever that the european union should have strong objectives in a united way.
the text reaffirms the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the union by 30% by 2020, with a view to limiting the global temperature rise to 2°c.
it proposes to define and enforce the principle of climate justice and acknowledges without mentioning it the climate debt owed by the countries of the north to the countries of the south.
the objectives it proposes for reducing greenhouse gas emissions are in line with those set by the ipcc.
energy sobriety, although the word is not yet in use, is finally on the agenda.
if the exchange of polluting rights known as the 'carbon market' and the establishment of a 'global carbon market' were not one of the main points of this text, i could have voted for it.
i regret this partisan statement made in haste because it weighs on the climate of informal negotiations at the un between the kingdom of morocco and the polisario front and has generated tensions on the ground.
in december 2009, the un climate summit took place, where unfortunately the european union was not able to play the role it wanted.
as a leader in sustainable development, it is important that it extends this commitment to international trade policies.
we call on the european commission to discriminate between imported products on the basis of their ecological footprint and to establish a carbon footprint of all trade policies.
recalling that the fight against climate change is a factor of competitiveness, our resolution calls for the awareness of all industrial sectors to the problem of carbon leakage and the end of fossil fuel subsidies, in particular tax exemptions for air transport.
the report by yannick jadot points out that trade in goods and services is responsible for around 20% of global greenhouse gas emissions and that this should be taken into account in the fight against climate change.
while the european union has put in place ambitious climate policies, it is essential that trade policies also reflect this political imperative.
i join the rapporteur in deploring the fact that some countries, by subsidizing energy prices and applying no co2 restrictions or quotas, could benefit from a comparative advantage.
it is regrettable that these countries have no interest in joining multilateral agreements on climate change and are encouraging unfair competition in this respect.
we must ensure fair competition and refuse to allow our climate efforts to penalise us in global trade.
eu trade policies have an impact on the climate and the eu's responsibility cannot be limited to the greenhouse gas emissions it produces on its own territory.
the european parliament adopted by a large majority this report which seeks to improve the coherence between trade and climate, making proposals on the discrimination of products according to their climate impact, and on the achievement of carbon accounting for all trade policies.
corporate social responsibility in international agreements promotes better governance of the global economy, promotes a fairer, more social and more humane globalisation and serves sustainable development.
as in the field of sustainable development, the european union must assert its convictions in the social model and make it a platform for progress in globalisation.
however, given the weakness of social and environmental legislation in these countries, there are fears of abuses in terms of working conditions, human rights violations or environmental damage.
this clause will make it possible to require clear and verifiable commitments from these companies, their subsidiaries and their supply chain regarding the social and environmental impact of their activity.
this is a good response to raise the level of social and environmental protection requirements worldwide.
globalisation has brought intense competition between countries, leading to intolerable abuses by many multinationals in developing countries in terms of working conditions, human rights violations and environmental damage.
this clause will require the regular publication of reports on the social and environmental impact of the activities of companies, their subsidiaries and their supply chains.
the report calls for judicial cooperation between the eu and signatory states and trade agreements to ensure effective access to justice for victims of violations of social and environmental legislation by multinationals and their subsidiaries.
however, it can provide a conceptual and legal framework for state intervention in production and its social and ecological conditions.
i would also like to thank mr luhan for having incorporated some of our amendments which are aimed at the establishment of a sustainable low-carbon economy which respects biodiversity.
it is regrettable, however, that the eu's readiness to bail out banks is not matched by its readiness to help citizens devastated by the consequences of climate change.
in view of the multiplicity and gravity of disasters in the world, and their increase mainly due to climate change, i voted in favour of the very good report by my excellent italian colleague iva zanicchi containing a proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the creation of a rapid response capacity.
that's how you waste a year's worth of work.
a choice between social dumping and automatic social assistance which is no longer politically or financially sustainable.
the european union has therefore finally acquired an instrument to create a deterrent environment for traffickers and to provide assistance and protection for victims of trafficking.
i fully agree with the statement in the report that achieving economic, social and territorial cohesion is a necessary but not sufficient condition for ensuring global economic competitiveness, which requires significant investment in key areas such as energy, the environment, infrastructure, education, research and development, creative industries and services, logistics and transport.
it brings us closer to a more 'sustainable' european economy.
the council of environment and agriculture has just a few days ago rejected commissioner dalli's proposal by a very large majority.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to be here in the european parliament again today, after the debate we had before cancún and now after the outcome of the climate conference.
the cancún climate conference has finally turned out to be a success.
this was necessary both for climate policy and to save the multilateral process.
we have reached a decision at the climate conference, a decision which actually consists of two parts, a first part which you could consider as a set of concrete measures that can be implemented very quickly, and a second part which lays down a set of foundations for reaching a global agreement in the long term for the period after 2012. this is of course in the context of the two degrees celsius target which is also included in the outcome of the climate conference as a starting point.
the executive technology committee and the climate technology centre and network.
finally , the green climate fund is to ensure that $100 billion is made available to developing countries by 2020. these are the concrete achievements of cancún.
so this is not the end, but the beginning, an important new step in the climate debate.
we strengthened the international climate regime with new institutions and new funds.
we wanted recognition of the gap between the emission reduction pledges of the copenhagen accord now being anchored in the un text and the challenge of keeping global warming below 2°c.
i think that it is not just of interest to the international climate negotiations that, for instance, a country like china has now accepted international consultation and analysis.
i think that is also an important signal that reaches far beyond the climate negotiations.
as you know, in the spring the commission will present a strategy for completing the transition to a low-carbon economy by 2050. that strategy will also include a 2030 objective.
let me finish with a word about the european union in the climate change conference.
i would particularly like to thank the chair of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, jo leinen.
europe must go to 30% now in terms of its greenhouse gas emissions reduction target.
now let us come to the incredible potential of energy savings.
the european commission itself reports that if we got out of our energy drunkenness, if we reduced our energy waste by 20%, we could create a million jobs, we could almost save almost 1,000 euros per european household and obviously reduce our external energy bill.
20% efficiency or reduction in our energy consumption in europe is 15 nabucco in energy and we are missing it.
i am sorry, commissioner, but when you say that we have a problem with the definition of energy efficiency, that may be true in theory, but the 'climate-energy package' is very clear on the objective, it says: 20% reduction in energy consumption compared to a baseline.
it is not a question of defining energy efficiency, there are many energy volumes to be revised, it is the "climate-energy package".
the european commission, just a few days ago, negotiated a binding agreement on climate change in cancún, tried to defend the kyoto protocol, and here we are taking up the arguments of the united states or china, saying 'we will do something voluntary and then if one day we really realise that it is not working, we will do something binding'.
as regards the report under consideration, a number of members have proposed that the aspect of buildings be strengthened, that there is scope for a major european initiative on buildings, which still account for 40% of our energy, and that much more can be done on renovation.
finally, citizens are facing the cold today, they are paying a lot of money for their energy bills; if europe comes out of the crisis, energy will be much more expensive internationally.
citizens will face twice as much energy bill.
we must move much faster, and i would also ask you, commissioner, to please insist with mr van rompuy that the meeting on 4 february should also be a meeting on energy consumption.
mr president, the search for savings is a real challenge, a challenge to reduce the dependence of our territory, a challenge to free up large financial resources to finance research into new energy sources, a challenge to revitalise our territories.
if energy efficiency in buildings is to be at the centre of our concerns, it is essential that the objectives and action of the union, as well as of the member states, focus on social housing, because it is the most modest who must benefit, as a matter of priority, from the effort on energy efficiency.
we must put an end to the scandal of the poorest being charged with the highest energy bills, while in the name of energy efficiency we are creating tax niches which enable the richest to lower their bills while paying less tax.
a real energy efficiency policy should also involve the possibility of selling electricity at a lower cost to railways, metros and trams, as was done in france before the european directives on the single energy market prohibited it.
one of the first measures would therefore be to break up the single market for electricity in the union, because competition on a product such as electricity, which is not stored and transported properly, is an aberration in terms of energy efficiency.
finally, energy efficiency will only create quality jobs if it is based on a genuine strategic industrial initiative of the union free of the constraints of the free market.
yes, if we do not say, at the same time, that solidarity obliges us to create the possibility of protecting the euro with euro-bonds to invest, to continue to ensure the ecological and economic transformation.
when mr oettinger comes to us and says he needs a trillion dollars for energy reform, but where is he going to get the money?
one million european citizens (just 0.2% of the eu population) will now be able to ask the commission to submit proposals in certain areas: an important step towards participatory democracy, which should allow and encourage transnational debates in europe, since the initiative must be taken by citizens residing in different member states; the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the environment, the protection of the environment, the environment, the environment, and so on.
this growth will have to be smart (by promoting digital technologies, research and development, education), sustainable (with an energy efficiency target of 20%) and inclusive (through the fight against discrimination between workers and better social dialogue).
the new action plan is structured around eight new major themes: 1- peace and security, 2- democratic governance and human rights, 3- trade, regional integration and infrastructure, 4- the millennium development goals, 5- energy, 6- climate change, 7- migration, mobility and employment, 8- science, the information society and space.
the energy issue is a major challenge for europe.
it is important to remember that the development of the continent owes much to the relatively easy supply of energy which european countries have enjoyed for more than a century.
the energy question is now being asked in new terms.
the dual pressures of global warming and the inevitably increasing difficulty of supplying oil and, to a lesser extent, gas, are pushing us to look for new solutions.
since 2006, there has been an energy efficiency action plan.
i have of course supported this basic text (including the binding target of 20% additional energy efficiency by 2020), which puts the union at the forefront of these areas.
adopted by a large majority, mr bendtsen's own-initiative report sends a timely political signal on the subject of energy, a few days after the end of the cancun summit and two months before the energy summit on 4 february 2011. energy efficiency is without doubt one of the most important issues in our fight for the environment.
energy savings and energy efficiency are the fastest and most cost-effective way to reduce co2 emissions and improve security of supply.
in this report, we call for increased efforts to achieve the 20% energy efficiency target by 2020. i regret, however, that the amendment calling on the commission to launch an initiative next year to carry out a major renovation of existing buildings did not receive a majority.
buildings are responsible for about 40% of the eu's energy consumption and about 36% of its greenhouse gas emissions.
buildings are responsible for about 40% of energy consumption and about 36% of greenhouse gas emissions in the european union.
efficient buildings should therefore be a priority in the next review of the energy efficiency action plan.
today, 30% of existing housing in europe is unhealthy and has a high energy bill.
it is therefore important not only to promote new sustainable construction but also to renovate sustainably.
this is why member states must launch without delay a programme of major renovation of existing buildings in order to achieve by 2050 a near-zero energy consumption in the building environment.
there is also a link between energy efficiency and energy poverty.
we therefore ask the commission to develop a new energy efficiency action plan which takes into account the needs of vulnerable consumers.
there is much to be done to improve energy efficiency in key sectors such as transport or buildings which offer untapped opportunities.
however, it is unrealistic to set a binding target of improving energy efficiency by at least 20% by 2020 as there is no common evaluation methodology or indicators.
instead, we should focus on concrete sectoral targets, such as the commitment to reduce energy consumption in existing buildings by 38%.
this report emphasises the principle of energy efficiency and advocates energy labelling.
this is a good thing, even if we would have preferred to see the debate extended to energy efficiency and eco-labelling.
he's worried about the energy crisis.
it is a pity that it is making it into an instrument of green capitalism, that it is in favour of free competition and calls for the intervention of financial intermediaries and extols the merits of the carbon market.
it's a waste of the advances it promises.
this year's report notes that serious violations in this area persist and are aggravated by the economic crisis, climate change, new technologies and the fight against terrorism.
corruption and waste must be tackled if international aid is to play its part.