deceitfully blamed on climate change, the real reason for the devastation of the town of cockermouth was the eu-imposed privatisation/theft of public services.
eu red tape is strangling our entrepreneurs and the carbon-tax scam is plunging millions into deadly fuel poverty.
what we do need are economic policies that respect the rights of our member states, stimulate the sharing of best practice and focus on delivering eu added value; policies which defend the benefits of the internal market and extend them further; policies which provide a climate in which entrepreneurs and businesses can thrive in order to create jobs, raise our standard of living and contribute to a stronger society.
we in the ecr group have high hopes of the europe 2020 initiative as a framework for a sustainable, competitive european economy, and we have drafted our own additional proposals which we hope will help to take this debate forward.
if we are serious about nuclear non-proliferation, the iranian government must understand that, whilst iran has the right to develop nuclear energy for peaceful purposes, it will not be allowed to deceive the world in pursuing its ambition of having nuclear weapons.
if it proposes progressive policies to stimulate economic growth, to deal with climate change, to strengthen individual freedom and responsibility, and to encourage cooperation on the world stage where we share common interests, all of these are areas where europe can offer a benefit rather than impose a burden.
the next six months are crucial for the eu economic and environmental future, and we look forward to the february council for ambitious leadership in reforming the financial sector.
in the wake of the failed climate change negotiations at copenhagen, i am keen to hear how the presidency will work with the commission to put forward a common eu target for emissions reductions for the 31 january target.
in those circumstances, i believe it would be very foolish for those of us in the eu debating these matters to agree to even further emissions reductions.
in the absence of a worldwide agreement, i think we would be crazy to agree to further reductions because what we will do is run the risk of saddling our consumers with some of the highest energy bills in the developed world, making european heavy industry and large energy consumers particularly uncompetitive in a worldwide environment.
already we have seen a lot of industry relocating to outside the eu, simply of course transferring emissions from the eu to china, india and elsewhere.
this is a crazy economic policy because it has no net benefit for the environment whatsoever.
in fact, in some respects it has a net deleterious effect on the environment as those goods are simply re-imported back into the eu, after all.
mr president, after copenhagen let us reassess the whole global warming story.
since then we have seen the debunking of the potsdam sea-level scare; the goddard institute has been caught fiddling the temperature records; the vanishing himalayan glaciers have been exposed as a fantasy; mr pachauri has emerged as a climate change profiteer.
global warming is a fraud.
carbon taxes push up fuel prices, killing our old folk as we speak.
the billions wasted researching this non-existent problem are billions that cannot be spent defeating real scourges such as alzheimer’s, or ending real environmental disasters such as deforestation.
carbon credit trading makes billions for city sharks at the expense of families in poverty.
those pushing the unscientific nonsense of man-made climate change – shell, monsanto, the international banks, bilderberg one-worlders, carbon billionaires and their useful idiot allies on the left – are running the biggest fraud in human history.
forty per cent of our emissions come from the fossil fuels burnt in our power stations.
that is why the development of carbon capture and storage technology is recognised as so important.
that is why the council three years ago agreed that we should try and build up to 12 demonstration projects by 2015. now, we agreed a year ago a method of financing those projects: to use 300 million allowances from the emissions trading scheme.
it will be debated at a meeting of the council’s climate change committee on 2 february, and there is opposition from some member states who oppose the commission having the final say over the selection of projects and the use and distribution of the money.
of course, as giles coren of the london times said, my goodness me, we simply do not get it – of course that is what global warming is all about: we have got to get used to freezing temperatures.
and now – you will not know about this yet because it has been kept out of the public domain – the new zealand national climate database: i have the figures here – all fraudulent.
mr president, apparently all the science of climate change is nonsense, according to mr bloom, because we have had a cold winter.
i wonder if mr bloom would like to tell the house the difference between climate and weather.
climate, mr davies, is what we all have to put up with.
the eu needs to commit itself now to a 30% cut in emissions for three reasons.
we cannot ‘half-commit’ to investment in renewable energy sources and low-carbon transport.
hundreds and thousands of new jobs are at stake, potentially 70 000 jobs relating to offshore wind in the uk alone, but these jobs, which are so necessary for economic recovery, will only be realised if there is a clear roadmap towards a zero-carbon europe by 2050. investment has to have certainty, and we need to be aware that europe is in danger of losing its place as leader on renewable technology.
finally, we need that 30% cut because most of the extra commitment can easily be realised by increased energy efficiency.
not to do more on energy efficiency would in any case be crazy.
energy efficiency means economic efficiency.
it means lower energy bills, not higher ones, and it improves energy security.
mr president, i have good news for the house: in common with many scientists, i personally have concluded that there is no climate crisis!
the small increase in mean global temperatures over the last hundred years is entirely consistent with well-established, long-term, natural climate changes.
in britain a majority of voters no longer believe in man-made climate change and they will not pay for futile and pointless attempts at mitigation.
the recent leaked cru memos show that even the high priests of climate alarmism are in despair at the failure of nature to follow their forecasts, so they are falsifying the figures to sustain their fantasy.
we would have liked to thank him for the excellent work he has done over many years, and i hope we will see him next week in the environment committee to pass on our thanks.
mr president, whilst the big conference at copenhagen was under way last month – complete with politicians, ngos and activists – there was another climate conference going on in the same city, where most of the speakers were scientists, and i believe that i was the only mep present.
these scientists, one by one, demolished the so-called facts about man-made global warming, with scientific argument as opposed to alarmist sound bite.
we were advised on the scientific shortcomings of the computer models that are reluctant to predict cold weather, and the probability of the opposite relationship between carbon dioxide and global temperatures to the one that we are being brainwashed with.
the intergovernmental panel on climate change said in 2007 that they would disappear by the year 2035. the sunday times has recently discovered that the report was ultimately based on an interview given to the new scientist by an indian scientist, mr hasnain in 1999. mr hasnain has subsequently said that this was based on personal estimates and did not mention the year and did not carry out any formal research.
if our conclusions on the hypothesis of climate change are to be based on evidence, then that evidence must be irreproachable.
question 4 by jim higgins (h-0486/09) subject: devastation of the tropical rainforests in view of the outcome of the world discussions on climate change in the december copenhagen meeting, would the council agree that, while european agriculture is a contributory factor in the production of co2 emissions, the devastation of the tropical rainforests in the amazon basin more than outweighs the negative effects of european agricultural production in terms of co2 emissions?
it also asked that the responsibility of company directors be extended to include the duty to minimise the negative impact of their activities on the environment and human rights and that clear reporting standards be implemented at an international level.
what binding legal instruments does the council propose to ensure that companies respect the principles of due diligence and reporting and are punished in the event of violations of human or environmental rights within their area of responsibility?
mr president, sadly there has been a general climate in the islamic world of increasing jihadi militancy aimed at non-muslim communities in their midst – in particular, and more often than not, this means the christians.
it is crazy that they are forced to put out waste every two weeks.
mr president, i wish to speak on energy policy.
as a previous speaker said, securing future energy supply is a vital issue for all of us, and to solve this problem we must look to a wide range of technologies: not just one; not just gas.
obviously, renewable energy will have its part to play, whether it is wind, biomass or tidal power, but also nuclear and ccs must play their part as well.
i believe that these policies will secure the energy supply in the uk for the future, and i would see this as a model for the rest of europe.
mr president, a few weeks ago, my estimable friend and yorkshire colleague, edward mcmillan-scott, brought the chairman of the international panel on climate change (ipcc) to this assembly and presented him as a legend in his own lunchtime and a top climate science guru – and i have to say that he certainly looked like a guru to me – but it turns out that he is a railway engineer who writes mucky books.
we cannot overcome the economic, social and climate crisis we face using the same policies and mindset that created them; we cannot build a more democratic and more effective europe unless we do so within the real and changing political climate.
it must support efforts to nurture fragile economic recovery and to generate growth and jobs, and has to play a leading role in tackling energy security and climate change.
scotland being a major potential source of energy production, especially in renewable sources, the commission should prioritise projects and initiatives which will assist in developing scotland’s massive potential as a supplier of clean green energy.
we have spent a lot of time and energy in the last year investigating procedures, oversight, transparency and effective risk management of international capital market participants.
in conclusion, a simple first step would be for the eu, and specifically eurozone member states, to have a sustainable debt maturity strategy as the absolute debt level at this time is less important than the amount of debt which is up for renewal.
the next item is the debate on:– the oral question to the council on key objectives for the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) in doha, 13-25 march 2010, by jo leinen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0145/2009 – b7-0003/2010), and– the oral question to the commission on key objectives for the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) in doha, 13-25 march 2010, by jo leinen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0146/2009 – b7-0004/2010).
at a time when in all our countries we have serious concerns about energy security, and turkey is in such a key geographical position in providing the routes for pipelines from the caspian, why is the energy chapter not open?
it is a pity that a number of people have jumped onto the environmental agenda as a way of advancing a different agenda, an agenda that has at its core the desire to take power away from elected national politicians and concentrate it in the hands of international technocracies.
the tragedy is not just that we become less democratic: it is that we lose the consensus that we might have had for tackling environmental problems.
left or right, conservative or socialist, we can all agree that we want a diversity of supply for energy, and that we do not want pollutants being pumped into the atmosphere, but only one set of policies is being applied – those that involve statism and corporatism – the same policies in fact which have failed politically and societally are now being applied to the environment.
the environment is altogether too important to be left to the left.
look at the common agricultural policy, which many meps in this place support, that not only damages developing countries’ economies but damages the environment.
the only way to prevent local populations from doing the logical thing, which is to eliminate a dangerous menace, is by giving them an incentive in treating it as a renewable resource.
environmental policy should recognise the basic aristotelian wisdom that that which nobody owns, nobody will care for.
− this report deals with important issues relating to fraud, including in the field of greenhouse gas emissions.
− ukip believes that environmental protection is important.
whilst we dispute the scientific premise the copenhagen talks were based on, we have no objection to measures taken at nation state level to protect the environment.
− the copenhagen summit was very much a missed opportunity in efforts to tackle climate change.
my own country, scotland, has adopted the most ambitious climate change legislation in the world whilst the scottish government's recent collaboration with the government of the maldives serves as a model for international agreement.
it is on the issues outlined by many scientists and other observers that citizens are making up their minds to support climate change proposals.
soft low-energy x-rays actually are more absorbed than the higher-energy cosmic rays you receive whilst flying and are thus more dangerous and not less dangerous to the skin and soft tissues.
question 1 by zigmantas balcytis (h-0008/10) subject: creating an internal energy market creating a single internal energy market is referred to as a political priority in the agreement and long-term strategy of the troika of spain, belgium and hungary.
in order to attain this objective, the most isolated regions of the community, such as the baltic sea region, need to be better integrated into the european energy market.
the baltic sea strategy contains many electricity and gas interconnection projects, which, if implemented, will allow baltic countries to break free from their energy dependency on a single supplier.
in creating an internal energy market, the community has undertaken to speak with one voice.
will spain, which holds the presidency of the council, take a lead role in encouraging member states to speak with one voice in the implementation of energy projects in the baltic sea region, such as amberlitpol, swedlink and others, that would bring about an increase in energy security not only at a regional level but throughout the community?
before we go on, can i just make it clear to everybody in the chamber that the minister is prepared to stay until 19.20, so there will be more questions than would be taken up to 19.00.
question 2 by silvia-adriana ticau (h-0009/10) subject: development approaches, objectives and actions under the eu's 2020 sustainable development strategy the economic crisis, climate change and demographic changes are having a drastic impact on the lives of european citizens.
health, education, agriculture, the development of transport and energy infrastructure and investment in research and innovation and in the modernising of public services must be priorities both for the member states and for the eu.
the eu’s 2020 sustainable development strategy is to be presented at the informal european council meeting in february 2010. could the spanish council presidency indicate what the main development approaches, objectives and actions will be under that strategy, and what resources it estimates will be needed for its successful implementation?
we wanted improved trade in environmental goods.
well, under this deal, environmental trade in goods and services will after three years have virtually duty-free access to the korean market and their environmental goods and services duty-free access to our market.
we asked as a parliament for improved social and environmental standards.
well, korea since the negotiations have been initialled has signed four ilo conventions and their trade and sustainable development forum is going to be established as a result of this agreement allowing the civil partners in korea to ensure that greater market opening is accompanied by labour and environmental standards improvements.
we believe this approach should involve an ‘entry strategy’ into the labour market, which should form an integral part of the 2020 strategy and constitute its road map for the years up to 2015. it should combine the macroeconomic policy agenda with structural policies in the economic, social and environmental fields to aim at the creation of at least five million net new jobs by 2015, particularly in the green economy.
there should be wide encouragement of research and development both in universities and in private enterprises in europe so that we can be at the forefront of new sustainable industry and technologies.
an eu 2020 strategy focused on innovation in areas of existing expertise… (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, mr barroso talked earlier on about wanting an ambitious strategy, and it is true that there are parts of the document eu 2020 which are ambitious, but certainly the greenhouse gas emission figure is not ambitious: it is pathetic, and it is not going to get us where we want to go.
we should be looking at 40% by 2020. of course, the issue is not only about climate but also about resource availability and increasing resource efficiency.
the eu has many areas where we have tried to decouple growth from transport, energy use, whatever, and it has long been decoupled from jobs.
the ecr group continues to press for a two-state solution as the only way to bring about a long-term sustainable solution to the conflict in the middle east, but the goldstone report does nothing to bring us any closer to that point.
are we unintentionally making women less employable by demanding that businesses offer rights that they cannot deliver in today’s economic climate?
written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by adina-ioana vălean, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a council regulation concerning the notification to the commission of investment projects in energy infrastructure within the european community and repealing regulation (ec) no 736/96 (com(2009)0361 – c7-0125/2009 – 2009/0106(cns)) (a7-0016/2010).
we continue to talk about the importance of reducing co2 emissions, even while the theory of man-made global warming is falling apart in front of our eyes.
but if we were serious about reducing co2 emissions, surely we should be favouring nuclear power stations and not renewables.
many countries in the eu, including my own, are facing the prospect of an energy crunch later this decade, partly as a result of the large combustion plant directive.
european fisheries policy has been so unsuccessful in achieving sustainability that 91% of fisheries are on course to be classified as overfished by 2015. but the problem is how waters are being fished, not by whom.
but throwing back into the sea dead fish that have already been caught and are good for the table is surely the opposite of sustainability.
what is sustainable fishing, however, is recreational sea angling, which is enjoyed by around a million people in the uk and which supports business thought to be worth around eur 2 billion in tackle trade alone across the continent.
the cfp has already wiped out most of what ought to have been a great renewable resource.
i support the view that the cfp should be based on three core principles of environmental, social and economic dimensions.
i seek in these amendments to delegate real powers to europe’s fishing nations; to encourage cooperation between fishing nations and stakeholders on a logical basis by sea basin; to encourage the incentivisation of sustainable management measures taken at national and local level and to recognise and maintain the historic rights and benefits accrued from the principle of relative stability.
we have to put sustainability and conservation at the heart of our agenda.
it seems to me that, if the cfp is going to regain its credibility, it must first of all have at its heart sustainability; if there is no fish, there is no future for the industry.
the core goal of a reformed cfp must be to ensure that fishermen can earn a decent livelihood while also achieving environmental sustainability.
even in the time that i have been in this house there has been a calamitous decline in what ought to have been a renewable resource.
in other countries which found a way to incentivise ownership, to give the fishermen a reason to treat the seas as a renewable harvest, they managed to sustain their fish levels: in iceland, in norway, in new zealand, in the falkland islands.
− despite the disappointment of copenhagen, the eu cannot allow the lack of international consensus to slow down our own efforts in effecting a sustainable energy policy.
the scottish government is continuing to pioneer in the field of renewable energy and the eu has an important role too in driving forward the agenda.
the effective promotion of our energy policy requires adequate information on infrastructure and i voted accordingly today.
the other issue we should concentrate on are the many women’s health issues that have to be addressed and which are not given the time and energy that they should be.
there are many eu- and member state-led initiatives and spending programmes looking to tackle the global climate in smart ways.
− i voted no to this report and in doing so was mindful of a good news story in respect of our marine environment.
all of the eu fishermen involved in this project need to be applauded for their dedication, which removes waste permanently from the sea, benefiting the fishing industry, wildlife and the environment.
i am glad that, less than four weeks after i took office, i can today present to you a communication on international climate change policy post copenhagen – a communication that the commission adopted in its meeting today.
the communication is entitled ‘acting now to reinvigorate global action and climate change’, and that is exactly what we aim to do.
one hundred and nine countries – industrialised and developing nations alike which are collectively responsible for more than 80% of the world’s greenhouse gas emissions – have now officially included their emission reduction targets and actions in the accord.
we need to seize this chance to help maintain momentum towards the robust and legally binding global climate agreement for the post-2012 period, which of course remains our objective.
we believe that the most convincing way europe can do so is by taking tangible and determined action domestically to become the most climate-friendly region in the world.
well, because it will – if we do it intelligently – enhance our competitiveness, strengthen our energy security and stimulate greener economic growth and innovation, thus creating new jobs.
the commission will therefore now undertake work to outline a pathway up to 2050 for the european union’s transition to becoming a low-carbon economy.
this will involve reducing our emissions by 80% to 95% in 2050, as already agreed, and – as this house is well aware – the eu is committed to reducing its emissions to at least 20% below 1990 levels by 2020 and to scaling up this reduction to 30% if the conditions are right.
we need to bring our reduction more closely into line with what the science tells us is necessary in order to meet the copenhagen accord’s objective of keeping global warming below two degrees.
if today we want to be as ambitious as we were prepared to be when we adopted the climate and energy package back in 2007 and 2008, we would then have to go beyond the 20%.
in line with the deadline agreed in the ets directive, the commission will also set out its analysis of the situation regarding energy intensive industries in the event of carbon leakage.
this means building a robust and transparent international accounting framework for countries’ emissions and performance.
bringing the developed country targets and developing country actions submitted under the accord, as well as the political guidance on mrv, into the formal un negotiation process will be crucial, but also decisions on issues which were neglected in the accord, such as the evolution of the international carbon market, reducing emissions from international aviation and maritime through icao and eimo, agriculture and other things.
so for all of us to whom it is very important to get an international deal, i also think it is very important to pursue this stepwise approach and to try to do whatever we can to ensure that the world gets a legally binding deal before 2012. finally, a few words on environmental integrity.
environmental integrity must be our watchwords in the negotiations and i know this is a concern parliament shares.
by this i mean the limited number of countries it covers – corresponding to only 30% of today’s emissions – and the serious weaknesses it contains such as the accounting rules for forestry emissions and the handling of surplus national emission rights from the period 2008 to 2012, which were also highlighted in your february resolution.
the commission’s communication sets out a strategy to help maintain the momentum of global efforts to tackle climate change expressed by the growing support for the copenhagen accord.
why is there nothing here that points at the problem of climate-change denial, which is sapping political will?
− madam president, first to mr seeber, about the ipcc and why did we not criticise that or whatever we were supposed to do in this paper: i must say that, although i think it is crucial for the ipcc to take the criticism seriously and try to correct where there are things that need correction, i have seen nothing to date that changes my profound understanding and feeling that, yes, we need to address climate change.
in the absence of a globally binding agreement, does she not agree that there is a great risk that we make our industry more uncompetitive, and saddle our consumers with ever higher electricity bills, at no net benefit to the environment at all because those reductions in emissions are of course cancelled out by increases in india, china, the us, etc.?
my point is simply that i think that, if we do this in an intelligent and coherent manner, it would be possible to choose tools that could at the same time benefit climate change and emissions reductions, energy efficiency, energy security, and innovation and job creation.
then, later this year, we would have the analysis on the pathways to 2050, including this 2030 perspective that i think we have to start thinking about, the reason of course being that we have pledged to reduce by 80% to 95% by 2050. if we do not get started, it is going to be extremely tough in the last one or two decades as we approach 2050.
madam president, contrary to the belief of the commission, the debate regarding man-made climate change is far from over.
in the past month alone we have had the scandal of the university of east anglia; then we have had the debacle over the himalayan glaciers and now, we have got questions over the effect climate change will have on wildlife in the amazon.
we need solid, peer-reviewed scientific evidence, not the work of pressure groups using climate change to further their own agendas or politicians who use climate change to justify the existence of the european union.
i would like to ask whether it is now time to pause, to take stock and consider the ramifications of bounding ahead with policies that could damage economies, result in job losses or potentially result in energy chaos.
you will be aware that the leaked emails from the university of east anglia reveal that historical changes in temperature have been manipulated by supporters of the man-made climate change hypothesis by subjectively choosing base years.
the european union pays enormous subsidies to environmental pressure groups that agree to advise the eu to follow a policy to which it is already committed.
question 32 by liam aylward (h-0090/10) subject: strengthening and funding grassroots sporting organisations in the eu grassroots sporting organisations make a huge contribution to european society, culture and the health of european citizens; in the current economic climate, however, many grassroots sporting organisations are experiencing financial difficulties.
it is also right that 16 countries should get even better access to our market, through gsp+, in return for setting up and implementing 27 specified international conventions on human rights, co-labour standards, sustainable development and good governance.
that should mean appointments on merit and merit alone, appointments from member state foreign ministries from day one and from across all of the european union; it means incorporation of strategic advice on issues like energy supply and environmental policy; it means organisational structures which reflect global reach and give due weight to africa and to transatlantic relations as well as to asia, latin america and our neighbourhood; it means sufficient financial margin, not just for rapid reaction or humanitarian response, but to move monies to reflect new political priorities; it means endorsing cathy ashton’s decision to put disaster response above disaster tourism and for her to provide key direction to financial programming and it means this parliament supporting new arrangements with deputising which reflect international practice rather than necessarily sticking to our past rules.
this resolution, as it stands, is too focused on a transaction-tax solution, implies eu, not member state, tax-raising powers, suggests utilising the money raised for funding development and climate-change projects instead of stabilising the financial sector and, finally, suggests that an eu tax might be feasible without global participation.
an ftt could help reduce volatile and risky financial trading while raising billions to help tackle the effects of climate change and help developing countries who have been hit hardest by the financial crisis.
you underlined the fragile nature and environment of the arctic.
since then, the eu has become one of the many actors with a vital strategic interest in the arctic – its environment and its natural resources.
fishing in a sustainable manner protects stock and gives a future to fishing communities.
king canute lives on in the council of the european union, which begins and ends its conclusion on arctic affairs with the alleged importance of global warming.
according to the us national snow and ice data centre, arctic summer ice has increased by 409 000 square miles, or 26%, since 2007. this is exactly what was predicted by scientists aware that the previous shrinkage of summer ice, wrongly used as evidence for global warming, was in fact nothing more than a snapshot of an ages-old natural cyclical pulse of advance, retreat and advance.
so the arctic summer ice will not vanish by 2013 and polar bears have not, and will not, drown because of global warming.
but millions of hard-working voters are drowning in a sea of debt and taxes, and they are growing very impatient with the political class’s use of the global-warming fraud to impose undemocratic international governance and bogus green taxes.
– madam president, we can set all the targets under the sun for tackling climate change but we will not reach them, especially the longer-term targets for 2050, unless we invest deeply and systematically in developing and improving sustainable low-carbon technology.
the us is rightly criticised for its failure to sign up to greenhouse gas reduction targets, but the eu is nowhere near the level of investment that the us is at at present.
without proper investment, the eu’s sustainable low-carbon investment programme will stall, and that means that hundreds of thousands of jobs which could be created here in the eu, and in regions like my own, the north-east of england, which are already starting to make that transformation to a low-carbon economy, without investment those jobs will go elsewhere to the us and china.
finally, it is, of course, important to achieve improvements in nuclear technology, especially with regard to safety of operation and waste management, but my group takes the view that ‘sustainable nuclear fission’ is a contradiction in terms.
will the commissioner rename the sixth european industrial initiative simply the ‘nuclear energy initiative’?
– madam president, i have to express some regret at the obsession on the left side of this parliament with nuclear energy, which has meant that we have two resolutions before the house today, most of the content of which has much in common except for this issue of nuclear energy, particularly when it is the only proven technology to supply large volumes of ultra low-carbon electricity in europe.
if we are to wean ourselves off fossil fuels – especially oil and coal – we will need all the low-carbon energy technologies we can get.
many of them are still more potential than production, and we must be realistic about how successful we have been in achieving target levels of energy from renewable sources.
in the mean time we must lose no time in increasing the share of european electricity supplied by nuclear energy.
there is huge potential in new green technologies such as solar thermal from the sahara and wind farms from the north sea, not to mention carbon capture and storage and basic improvements in energy efficiency, where – at least on that point – i agree with my green colleague across the floor, but all of this requires massive investment, and that is the fundamental point about these questions today.
madam president, i welcome the initiative to talk about investment in low-carbon technology but more specifically about energy-saving and providing more secure and diversified energy supplies.
the region i represent already has an eu fund of over eur 250 million for low-carbon economic growth.
higher energy prices mean that energy-intensive businesses in europe will simply give up and go away, to more favourable jurisdictions.
higher energy prices mean lower growth and higher unemployment, and they cost jobs.
if we are really serious about low-carbon electricity, there is only one solution and that is nuclear power.
the prevalence of unemployment and poverty probably does not help either and induces a climate of lawlessness in parts of mexico.
we need a sustained social and sustainable exit strategy.
madam president, the spring summit is supposed to be the energy summit.
had the copenhagen conference ended with a global agreement, we would already be discussing the technical details of moving to a 30% emissions reduction, and we must still do so.
just last week nobuo tanaka, the executive director of the deeply cautious international energy agency (iea), told meps that the iea’s 2009 world energy outlook predicts a 23% reduction in eu emissions and that 30% would represent a good target.
secondly, if we are serious about achieving up to a 95% target by 2050, then the road map requires a cut of at least 30% by 2020. and, last but not least, it is only the transformation of the eu into a sustainable low carbon and resource efficient economy which will ensure european economic recovery and job creation.
therefore, the council should back commissioner hedegaard and recognise that the conditions are now right to move to a 30% target, and the council should recognise that the cheapest and easiest way to make that further cut is through energy efficiency and, specifically, a binding energy efficiency target.
mr president, in times of economic stringency, faced with cuts in public spending right across european countries, all the eu’s institutions should be looking at how to cut costs and waste.
in effect i feel an eu logo would be meaningless, a waste of time and money and i feel the same way about the eu logo for organic produce.
deficits must be steadily reduced over the coming years, as the economy recovers from the effects of the financial crisis, but growing our way out of the crisis is the only effective option to secure long-term fiscal sustainability and protect citizens.
we must never forget, as we deal with the current economic and financial crisis, that we were facing enormous economic challenges even before the crisis struck, such as the growth of china and the far east and our increasing energy insecurity.
mr president, i want to refer to a piece of legislation with which the commissioner – who was energy commissioner for five years – will be closely acquainted.
it is a very rare habitat across europe, but it is also a habitat that has been much denuded by 250 years of industrial pollution which have devastated the variety of species that it can support.
of course, as the peatland dries out, it releases global-warming gases.
a huge potential supply of global-warming gas is being released from what should be a wonderful area.
it is a small element that can contribute both to the restoration and encouragement of biodiversity and also the protection of this moorland habitat which ensures that these global-warming gases are contained within it.
the continuation of the lfa scheme is vital if we are to compensate farmers for providing public goods, avoiding land abandonment, assisting in promoting biodiversity and helping to support rural communities.
those will be issues such as food security, market volatility, climate change, and the need to adequately meet the expectations for the delivery of public goods.
europe needs strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth which can deliver high levels of employment, productivity and social inclusion – hear, hear!
our future economic prosperity and all the benefits it can generate depend on successful businesses and entrepreneurs; they are the ones who create wealth and sustainable productive jobs, and that is the best anti-poverty policy yet invented.
last week the european climate foundation launched its ‘roadmap 2050’.
this plan shows three pathways by which the european union could cut its co2 emissions by 80 percent by 2050, in line with our kyoto aspirations.
we could become almost entirely self-sufficient in energy resources and we would see a significant net job creation through the decarbonisation of our economy.
climate change and global warming should remain a priority on the political agenda between the eu and the countries of latin america and the caribbean and a commitment to copenhagen targets should be reinforced.
furthermore, energy and energy-supply dialogue should be boosted to combat climate change and to aid sustainable energy consumption.
lastly, central asia is a strategic region for reasons of energy and global security and the operational capability of the us air base in kyrgyzstan is vitally important to support isaf in afghanistan as well.
that cites conference was all too reminiscent of the one on climate change in copenhagen, where the eu position was unclear.
the environment commissioner has said that this must never happen again.
canada’s record on climate change is poor and canada was obstructive during the copenhagen negotiations.
extracting oil from tar sands requires much more energy than oil produced from other sources, as well as being very polluting for the local environment.
given that the canadian government is currently trying hard to get the commission to weaken its approach to carbon measurement in the implementation of the fuel quality directive, may i ask the high representative whether she will be raising the issue of tar sands in the summit discussions?
the court of auditors particularly notes progress which has been made in the fields of agriculture, research, energy, transport and education.
trust in politicians is at an all-time low, and we will reduce our standing further if we are seen to condone such waste.
every time we discharge substandard accounts we encourage more waste and more fraud.
such a convention would merely serve to waste time and taxpayers’ money.
it will go the same way as the soviet union which it so resembles, and for the same reasons: it is centralised; it is corrupt; it is undemocratic and it is incompetent; it is driven by an unholy alliance of big business and fat-cat bureaucrats; it is sponsored by an ecofascist agenda from a platform of perverted junk science referred to as ‘climate change’.
first of all, i think that the elements of the commission’s proposal relating to the sales, service and repair market are very much aligned with the consumer interests which we have raised in our committee – not specifically on issues related to dg competition, but for example particularly in the areas related to information on service and repair where we worked, in this instance, with the environment committee on the provisions concerning technical information linked to environmental standards for motor vehicles.
i am therefore worried about the long-term sustainability of nigeria as a unitary state.
could this sole trader, who in today’s economic climate is struggling, afford to pay this indirect tax, and indeed would he and his wife want this extra burden?
in particular the dropping of the 1 000 m2 threshold which was proposed initially by parliament in its report on the action plan for energy efficiency, and also the step of bringing in near-zero energy buildings by 2021. unfortunately, this new requirement for new buildings will not help us with the 20-20-20 targets, especially because, increasingly, we realise that we need to be looking at least a 30% greenhouse gas emission reduction.
to have any effect on meeting our climate change targets, it is existing buildings that we need to concentrate on and the energy efficiency requirements there.
i would suggest three key actions that we need to see in place if we are going to realise the potential for energy saving in existing buildings.
if we had a european ‘binding’ target on energy efficiency, i am sure that we would see that kind of action being taken in member states very quickly, because they would realise that one of the easiest ways to achieve an energy efficiency target is by systematically upgrading existing buildings.
thirdly, and vitally, member states need to put in place upfront funding for energy-efficiency improvements and, despite all the work of the rapporteur and the shadows’ best efforts, we did not get as far on this in the recast as we would have wished from parliament’s point of view.
therefore, it is particularly important that we now get money for energy efficiency into the economic recovery programme, and i hope the commission will not delay with its proposal on this.
finally, given the comments made in the state-of-play document about the weakness of implementation of energy-efficiency legislation in the past, i would ask the commission whether it can ensure that this directive is implemented fully and on time.
as many have mentioned, 40% of our energy is consumed in buildings.
we need more sustainable living, not only because of the carbon challenge but also because of the concerns we all share about rising energy prices and energy security.
some member states are already much more ambitious in their national codes for energy efficiency, and i hope that this directive will encourage others to follow suit.
energy performance certificates help to raise awareness of where energy and costs can be saved, and encouraging new buildings and newly refurbished buildings to have smart meters give consumers more control over their energy-related decisions.
the commission must help: please, facilitate the transfer of best practice among member states and also ensure that minimum energy-performance standards are compatible whilst reflecting regional differences.
we all know that, to rise to the challenge of energy saving, it is important that consumers both in the public and private sectors acknowledge and see the benefits which directly engaging with energy-saving initiatives can bring both in environmental and economic terms, but i will give you a warning because there has been an example in my own member state of gold-plating the directive, particularly in the requirements for energy performance certificates in public buildings, and this has added, in some cases, extra bureaucratic costs with little perceived energy saving and led to a loss of public support; that is regrettable.
for a start, we should be cutting unnecessary waste and expenditure.
we cannot allow the uk’s vital national interests to be compromised by the icc, but, at the same time, we should also recognise that in certain circumstances the icc may have a constructive role to play in ending a climate of impunity for genocidal dictators.
many members here and many governments represented in the council just do not accept the need for urgent action to prevent climate change.
do you not need to address the problem of climate-change denial if you are to raise our ambitions?
i would like to give you a final thought, when we are considering relative risk: that accidents like this put the relative safety of nuclear energy into a different perspective.
colleagues, you heard from mr grech that the potential is there to create jobs, to encourage more innovation and to move towards a more sustainable economy but we need to get the support of citizens and consumers for this proposal.
mr president, i welcome many of the aims of the eu 2020 strategy: the focus on growth led by innovative businesses, on sustainable growth and on achieving high employment.
our member states also need to access those global capital markets and, whilst all eyes are focused on the european stabilisation fund, and whether it has achieved any current reduction in the immediate volatility, fundamentally, long-term confidence will only be achieved if, as well as this ambitious growth, our deficits are brought under control and public finances themselves are seen to be sustainable.
the effect, as predicted, has been increased use of environmentally unfriendly lignite-fuelled power stations, an increase in electricity prices and a cut in bulgaria’s electricity exports: in other words, both economic and environmental damage.
it is also important to address the issue of compensating for and replacing lost energy capacity.
bulgaria will need assistance in creating sustainable new capacity that ensures security of supply and diversification, so that bulgaria is not reliant on the goodwill of one foreign power.
europe’s taxpayers rightly take a very dim view of duplication of effort and waste of resources, and there is some confusion about all these competing processes, but whatever the fate of the union for the mediterranean at the summit on 8 june, we must not allow the eastern dimension of the european neighbourhood policy to fall behind.
– mr president, as the kirilov report makes clear, the countries of the south caucasus are strategically important to our union, not least in terms of energy security, e.g.
however, at a time when the economic climate across europe is perilous, it is entirely inappropriate that this house should contemplate the expense associated with such a plan.
the emphasis on religious identity that was the basis for the foundation of pakistan, and its creation, sadly appears to foster a climate of intolerance and often even violence towards those outside the religious mainstream.
the proliferation of deobandi madrasahs, preaching messages of hatred against the west, has created an environment in which extremism and fundamentalism flourish and too many eu citizens – including from my own country, the uk – have gone through their clutches.
please, let us stop this waste of taxpayers’ money now.
let me restate them: the major challenges are extreme poverty and hunger, access to universal primary education, gender equality, child mortality, maternal health, aids, malaria and tb, environmental sustainability and global partnership for development: eight millennium development challenges which still remain challenges.
but our problem is that, not only do we need more money to tackle these commitments, we now need additional finances to tackle the problems associated with climate change which are bedevilling the positions that we are taking in the developing countries and the least developed countries.
this is in the context of much tighter cooperation on policing and prosecution, the introduction of the european arrest warrant and the fact that many eu citizens take advantage of free movement rights and may have a brush with the law in an unfamiliar environment.
the next item is the report by maria badia i cutchet, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the internet of things (com(2009)0278 – 2009/2224(ini)) a7-0154/2010).
written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by francisco sosa wagner, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on internet governance: the next steps (com(2009)0277 – 2009/2229(ini)) (a7-0185/2010).
the constant adaptation of labels would carry higher costs and will inevitably increase packaging waste.
the farming and fishing industries and communities which are represented in this house produce food under very stringent regulation yet, for example, 60% of the fish we eat is imported into the eu and in most cases not reared under the same strict environmental and regulatory regimes.
if you look at what has been debated in council, it is article 122 of the lisbon treaty, which was supposed to be an article of solidarity: ‘in the spirit of solidarity if a member state falls into difficulties in the supply of certain products such as in the area of energy or where a member state is in difficulty or threatened with severe difficulties due to natural disasters’.
− i support efforts to make rail freight more effective, because of its environmental advantages compared to road freight.
− the winkler report deals with a number of important issues, including ecological innovation and green enterprise.
my own country, scotland, is at the forefront of many aspects of ecological innovation, particularly in the area of renewable energy.
the scottish government has instituted a £10 million saltire prize aimed at boosting innovation in tide and wave energy and this fits nicely into wider eu efforts to have a suitable policy in a changing world.
as i said, this is an example of a concrete measure we are taking to improve europe’s environment for entrepreneurs and for investing in our future.
question 21 by chris davies (h-0246/10) subject: securing eu environmental goals does the commission accept that excessive internal debate within the eu, and a failure to coordinate its full range of diplomatic sources across the world, contributed to the failure to secure eu objectives both at the unfccc copenhagen climate change conference and at the meeting of the parties to cites at doha?
will the commission outline the steps it is taking to improve its advance planning and coordination with the object of raising its game and securing a more positive outcome at future environmental conferences?
yet despite various political statements in support of the eu action plan on edcs, and an agreed priority list of endocrine-disrupting chemicals (edcs), no practical action has yet been taken at eu level to remove hormone-disrupting chemicals from our environment.
we are bound by the treaty to follow the precautionary measures in the area of the environment also, but i would still like to get as much data as possible and to base the proposals on as much solid science as possible.
question 25 by radvile morkunaite-mikuleniene (h-0262/10) subject: revision of the eia directive (85/337/eec) from time to time we hear of problems arising during the planning and implementation of large-scale infrastructure projects, especially in the energy sector.
most of the problems arise because of the lack of transparency and impartiality in the environmental impact assessments of such projects.
), as can be seen from the recent commission report, does not provide for the environmental assessment to be genuinely independent.
two main solutions to this issue are put forward: first, closer commission involvement in the environmental assessment procedure or, second, ensuring that the financing of the environmental assessment is independent of the developer of the project being assessed.
which option is the commission likely to choose in order to guarantee the independence of the environmental assessment?
given the pressure which exists to relax these directives, it seems to me appropriate in this year of biodiversity to ask the commissioner what is his position on the birds and habitats directives:does the commissioner agree with president barroso, who stated in a letter to prime minister balkenende that revision of the aforementioned directives was not needed, but on the contrary stability in the relevant legislative framework, and that these directives allowed sufficient room for economic development?
i support references strengthening cooperation between member states in addressing wage discrimination for equal jobs and action protecting women and men against all forms of violence, including human trafficking and female genital mutilation, but we also need to see strong steps towards empowerment of women through increasing confidence in their abilities, through education and through moves to create an environment which encourages choice.
in all these lengthy discussions about how to avoid a future euro crisis we are diverting vital energy from the task at hand about how to get out of a current crisis.
avoiding the temptation to become distracted by theoretic debates about future economic governance, we must instead focus on the enormous programme of european reform which is needed to release the creative energy and talents of our people to develop their plans and businesses, which alone can deliver the long-term economic prosperity we seek in an increasingly competitive world.
(applause)
mr president, this week the european council will need to provide answers to the political, economic, environmental and social challenges we are facing at the moment, both now and over the next 10 years.
there is basically no social dimension, nor an environmental one, except that some climate change elements are already agreed.
there needs to be an international financial tax to bring additionality to deal with the whole issue of mitigating the effects of climate change, which have enormous impacts on migratory flows, on food security issues.
− this report will mean that energy, fat, saturates, sugar and salt levels will have to be clearly displayed on the front of all pre-packed foods.
surely these floods are a wake-up call, a reminder that the cost of dealing with the consequences of climate change is far higher than the cost of getting global warming under control, as nicholas stern and others have pointed out.
we hear some industry voices complaining about the cost of cutting co2 emissions, so it is very important to publicise the message of this debate: that flooding is hugely damaging to communities and to the economy.
as i have indicated on a number of occasions in committee, we should not, however, penalise our fishing industry, or indeed the aquaculture sector in europe, whilst we import so much produce, much of which is produced under much less stringent environmental and social conditions than is expected of the sector here.
opportunities exist for the continuing sustainable development of the aquaculture sector and smile, the sustainable mariculture in northern irish loch ecosystems, provides shellfish aquaculture carrying capacity predictions for each of the northern ireland sea lochs.
scotland succeeds at high-quality aquaculture because of our environment and because of our clean waters.
they are so well-suited to the activity, and it is self-evident that we must protect that environment.
aquaculture is the fastest-growing food sector in the world, and in europe we have the perfect environment for fish farming: we have an almost limitless coastline with ideal bays, fjords and sea conditions; we lead the world in the science and technology necessary for a thriving aquaculture sector.
eu fish farmers have to deal with over 400 different pieces of regulation, not to mention additional planning and environmental constraints in their own member states, before they can reel in a single fish, and this is not simply from dg mare, it is also dg envi, dg trade, dg cinco and a host of other agencies.
yes, there is a great need to ensure that the environment is protected, because if we do not protect the environment we will not have any aquaculture in any of these areas.
madam president, aquaculture is now a fully recognised part not just of the fisheries sector but of our food industry as a whole and i think it is vitally important that environmental sustainability should be our watch-word.
i completely agree with what mrs rodust has said about pollution and i am pleased to see the dramatic improvements which have been made, in particular in the scottish aquaculture sector.
the implementation of a regime enforcing full traceability will be a valuable tool in bringing about a more sustainable fishery.
the need for greater access to research and development money is essential for the industry to remain at the cutting edge on sustainability and quality.
i am also convinced that the climate of political violence and impunity in the drc – and in other parts of africa sometimes – is linked to the control of resources, especially minerals.
it has recklessly pursued a nuclear energy programme that has rightly provoked suspicion and alarm.
if it were to develop nuclear energy in an open and transparent manner, no-one should question its right to do so.
i remain confident that we can agree on one overarching piece of legislation to cover all boat, bus and coach passengers to come into force in 2012.
the next item is the report by mathieu grosch, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on a sustainable future for transport (2009/2096(ini)) (a7-0189/2010).
having read this report, we find it a comprehensive run-through of all of the issues associated with bio-waste: landfill, the loss of an energy resource and the need for quality control on compost.
this week we are also going to vote on illegal logging and industrial emissions.
thank you for your work on the environment and health, and we look forward to working with you in the future.
let me suggest that it might have something to do with the deal that they have struck with the european union, whereby they are in the free market, in the four freedoms free movement of goods and services and people and capital but they are outside the common fisheries policy and outside the common agricultural policy, they control their own borders and determine who can cross them, they settle their own human rights issues, they control their own energy reserves and they can buy and sell to third countries without being subject to the common external tariff.
− parliament today has sent out a strong message that europe must move towards more sustainable transport.
my own country, scotland, has some of the most ambitious climate change legislation in the world and the scottish government is active in promoting sustainable transport initiatives including support for cycling and walking, low carbon vehicles and alternative fuels.
the scottish government only last month published a zero waste plan which deals with many of the issues discussed in the commission’s green paper.
– mr president, holger krahmer and i do not always agree about environmental legislation and the degree to which it should be enforced, but on this measure i think we have found ourselves very close despite the fact that many of the arguments he has put to his colleagues have been nationalistic.
this is an argument that can apply to many aspects of environmental legislation.
the legislation that we put in force has to be applied equally and effectively across the european union if we are to protect the environment, and if we are to ensure that certain countries do not gain a competitive advantage by not investing in the improvements that are necessary to make that possible.
the compromises reached are, in my view, a good balance between, on the one hand, protecting the environment but, on the other, taking into account some of the quite legitimate concerns held by some member states that forcing a lot of coal plants to close early would actually be a bad thing for the environment – what would the power be replaced by?
we have our long-term emissions legislation and directives to meet, which would be compromised by forcing too many plants to close early, and at the end of the day all the improvements we want to see have to be paid for by somebody.
we have a recession across europe and we must be careful to get the balance right between environmental protection and costly improvements.
the agreement is strict enough to ensure real strides in the protection of forests and biodiversity, but also flexible enough not to be over-burdensome for legal and honest traders.
certainly in the uk it has widened out beyond what i might call the usual suspects, the green environmental groups, and has engaged the wider public.
it is important for the climate, as everyone has mentioned, but i think, as the commissioner has said, it is most important for the millions of people who live in the world’s poorest countries and whose livelihoods are being destroyed by illegal logging.
madam president, the defining feature of the eu conspiracy, apart from endemic waste and fraud, is that it rides roughshod over the wishes of real people.
do not trust your own career politicians, because, if you do, this lot will take your greatest renewable resource from you!
by contrast, paragraph 25 recognises iceland’s ‘responsible and sustainable’ attitude to fisheries and calls for constructive negotiations on fisheries ‘so that the outcome may be a mutually satisfactory solution based on best practices and protecting the interest of both fishermen and consumers in the eu, as well as in iceland’.
the threat to the sustainable and well-managed mackerel stock in eu and uk waters that could come from icelandic fishermen is very real.
deforestation is a serious problem for the entire planet and has a huge impact on the world environment.
as the largest consumer of timber products in the world the eu has an obligation to import such products responsibly, and this requirement will now have a positive effect on the environment, human rights and consumer protection.
paragraph 25 rightly acknowledges iceland’s success in operating a responsible and sustainable fishing industry – in stark contrast to the eu’s track record.
to suggest that iceland should ditch its responsible, sustainable practices in order to adopt the eu’s failed system is ludicrous.
think of the waste – the total, abject waste of life from the preventable transmission of the hiv virus.
one of the fundamental challenges society faces is how to feed a growing world demand for food, estimated by the fao to double by the year 2050. the big challenge of course is how to meet that doubling of food demand against a background of less land, less water and less energy due to the impact of climate change.
i believe that tackling climate change and making our agriculture production more sustainable are objectives which must be at the heart of the reform going forward.
we also must respond to the call for greater environmental protection by ensuring farmers have an opportunity to participate in agri-environmental schemes with a goal of a majority of farmland being covered by such a scheme over the period of the next reform.
we must remember that the cap is not just for farmers: it provides us with a safe and secure food supply and wide-ranging public goods and environmental benefits.
this may be because, in today’s financial climate, cost is a worry and the report’s enthusiasm for non-agricultural objectives under pillar two diverts funds away from farmers.
the report’s obsession with climate change could lead to accepting advice that obliges arable farmers to pump tractor exhaust under the ground, increasing fuel consumption and spoiling seabeds as a consequence.
ruminant livestock farmers may be required to reduce methane emissions by replacing hay and silage with more expensive cereal-based rations.
the reformed common agricultural policy is going to have a vitally important role to play in confronting issues like food security, market volatility and climate change, but i want to mention three other principles which, to my mind, are no less important.
mr president, the future of the common agricultural policy will see increased focus on connecting it with climate change policy.
in my constituency of wales the existing schemes and pillar two will be replaced by the glastir scheme that focuses on climate change objectives and carbon sequestration.
current reforms of agricultural policy based solely upon climate change ideology could jeopardise the welsh farming tradition and wales’s economic future.
the rest are all add-ons to ensure that we have a profitable farming sector to be able to deliver the environmental benefits, to tackle climate change and all the other things we set out in the report.
however, the contradiction comes that, as we seek to remove these subsidies, european policy allows fish imports of unregulated fishery and aquaculture products that undermine the sustainable and economically viable fishing industry we strive for.
it fails to address the major problem of rural sustainability by sticking rigidly to a direct payment system which acts like a brake on the promotion of diversity and the protection of the countryside.
currently, the market does not reward farmers for the time and money which they invest in farming to produce high-quality, safe, sustainable food.
mr president, mr barroso has spoken of sustainable growth.
madam president, the president of the commission talked about sustainable growth and a target of 75% employment across the eu, a goal we would all agree with.
maintaining investment in areas the eu has a potential to lead in, such as renewable energies and high-speed rail, will help create the europe we want, it will help create the europe we need, and it will help secure the economy.
in recent months iceland has unilaterally set a quota for mackerel stocks which may threaten the very sustainability of that fishery.
− it is appropriate that we are voting on this report today, the day that the scottish government announced that scotland is halfway to reaching its 2020 targets for greenhouse gas emissions.
a recent report highlighted that offshore wind power alone could provide some 48 000 jobs in scotland, and the scottish government is committed to being at the forefront of eu efforts to create new jobs in a sustainable economy.
it is unfortunate that the government in westminster continues to discriminate against scottish energy suppliers through punitive grid charges, thereby holding back development of eu-wide significance.
− i voted in favour of this report, which calls for the development of a european job strategy for a sustainable economy.
it also backs calls within the council for a review of subsidies that have an adverse environmental impact, and stresses the need for decent work.
i very much welcome the commissioner’s response, and indeed her longer-term perspective, not least the link to climate resilience.
question 16 by justas vincas paleckis (h-0356/10) subject: legislation on radioactive waste management and storage although 15 of the 27 european union member states have nuclear power plants, there are currently very few projects to set up long-term repositories for radioactive waste.
while the eu recognises that the structure of energy supply is a matter for member states, it is creating the most advanced legal framework for nuclear safety, security and the management of radioactive waste.
it has been announced that the commission will propose european legislation on radioactive waste management in the second half of 2010. a public consultation on such a legislative proposal is currently being carried out.
what specific environmental requirements will this directive seek to provide?
will there be specific requirements for those countries that have already closed their nuclear power plants and have chosen different ways of managing waste – to build their own repositories or to repay suppliers in line with existing agreements?
how can the commission ensure that national governments will be in a position to respect their commitment to farmers and other recipients of eu supports, especially at a time when many member state finances are under significant strain in the current economic climate?
question 26 by silvia-adriana ticau (h-0354/10) subject: measures to fight drought and desertification climate change is affecting the member states in dramatic fashion, with many of them now having to handle long heatwaves, prolonged drought and large-scale desertification.
can the commission state what measures for adaptation to climate change it will propose in order to support the eu's southern and eastern member states in their fight against drought and desertification?
as they deal with the same subject, the following questions will be taken together: question 27 by karl-heinz florenz (h-0364/10) subject: preparation of the conference of the parties to the framework convention on climate change (cop 16) the next conference of the parties to the framework convention on climate change takes place in mexico from 29 november to 10 december 2010. how does the commission assess the chances of reaching a comprehensive climate agreement?
what outcome is the commission seeking, specifically with regard to issues such as financing, deforestation, the further development of emissions trading and adaptation?
and question 28 by andres perello rodriguez (h-0371/10) subject: eu contribution to the success of the cancún summit yvo de boer, the former un climate change chief, stated in bonn that it was ‘extremely unlikely’ that the forthcoming cancún summit would produce a binding agreement regulating greenhouse gas emissions from 2012 onwards, when the kyoto protocol expires.
other political figures also attending the bonn meeting, such as the mexican deputy environment minister, fernando tudela, warned that the negotiation process had to be modernised and revitalised if cancún was to be a success.
ngos operating in israel have a freedom unparalleled anywhere else in the middle east, which is generally a repressive environment for civil society.
question 7 by liam aylward (h-0373/10) subject: enhancement of biodiversity in the eu given that 2010 has been designated the international year for biodiversity and in light of the forthcoming conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity in nagoya, can the council outline its priorities on the protection and enhancement of biodiversity?
what is the state of play as regards the enforcement of the eu biodiversity action plan and how does the council envisage the role of biodiversity in the eu 2020 strategy?
another concern the commissioner has not mentioned is biodiversity.
it also states that there is a problem of cloned meat leading to an increase in meat consumption, with serious environmental consequences.
the report on ‘better lawmaking’ comes from the same institutions that have turned this part of the world into the most over-regulated and least competitive bloc on the planet, that have brought us the bureaucratic nightmare of the common agricultural policy, the ecological calamity of the common fisheries policy.
mr president, this report very wisely recognised the role of farmers in conserving biodiversity, and their contribution to good environmental practices in general.
as we discuss the imminent reform of the common agricultural policy, one of the main arguments in the debate is beginning to focus on the responsibility of farmers in this regard and how they should be compensated for these environmental benefits or public goods which they deliver.
i want to see farmers encouraged to engage in agri-environmental measures rather than being subject to stringent cross-compliance rules.
ms de lange’s report mentions the idea of an extra direct top-up payment, which i believe is a very interesting idea and would encourage farmers to do more to help protect the environment.
written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by joão ferreira, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the commission communication: a community approach on the prevention of natural and man-made disasters (com(2009)0082 - 2009/2151(ini)) (a7-0227/2010).
the advocates of european union are ambulance-chasers extraordinaire: from the fantasy of man-made global warming, to earthquakes and forest fires, every crisis becomes an excuse to grab even more power.
we therefore need to ensure that the eu has a strong, coordinated approach on many important issues – for example, on trade links and on ipr, to help us access the huge and growing chinese market, but also on climate change and energy.
energy, in particular, is a vital issue for both the eu and china.
therefore, i believe that cooperation on such things as clean energy technology is an important topic for us to discuss.
this will help us improve our environment and will be good for our energy policy.
− the subject matter of this report is huge and the conservation of biodiversity cuts across a vast swathe of policy areas.
many environmental issues are of a nature which justifies intervention at eu level.
− it is regrettable that the eu has not met its targets to halt biodiversity loss by 2010, as protecting our biodiversity is of great importance for ethical, ecological, as well as economic reasons.
i have supported the proposal to halt biodiversity loss by 2020, particularly as my constituency, wales, has such a huge variety of ecosystems to offer.
i also believe achieving this target will allow the eu to be a global leader in its efforts to protect and preserve our biodiversity, and demonstrate to developing nations our commitment to the 2015 millennium development goals.
large areas of the eu are to this day still suffering as a result of the chernobyl disaster and it is my belief that there is no such thing as safe nuclear energy.
my party and the scottish government remain firmly of the opinion that our energy needs must lie in non-nuclear power.
you are going to do the study on the environmental impacts of medicine.
so if anyone is tempted to vote in favour of amendment 61, which would make toxicity the lone criteria for substitution, then beware: you will be cutting across the whole rationale of protecting public health and the environment.
the regulation of biocides and biocidal products requires a balanced approach which takes into consideration the interests of manufacturers, on the one hand, and the welfare and safety of consumers and our environment, on the other.
while the agriculture lobby may not be 100% happy with this regulation as it stands, i was reassured to see that the committee on the environment, public health and food safety passed some amendments which will hopefully go some way towards guaranteeing the exemption of these rodenticides.
sadly, the environment committee did adopt one specific ban of a widely used second-generation anticoagulant rodenticide.
mr president, the aim of this regulation is to protect public health and the environment.
question 25 by silvia-adriana ticau (h-0417/10) subject: regional cooperation in energy-related matters the commission has announced that in 2010 it will issue a communication setting out recommendations and best practices with regard to regional cooperation in energy-related matters.
this year the commission will also publish a report on the implementation of the european economic recovery plan, which will also include an assessment of the state of implementation of energy-related projects.
i should like to ask the commission whether regional cooperation measures concerning energy will also include the development of 'intelligent' energy infrastructure (smart grids) at the macro-regional level, thereby helping to reduce energy consumption and enabling renewable energy sources to be used in a decentralised system?
in view of the extraordinary biodiversity of the mediterranean and the fact that it is a closed sea with limited water renewal, will the commission answer the following questions: will it introduce stricter controls on drilling at sea and, if so, how?
will it urge libya to take account of the cross-border environmental impact of these operations?
will it consider introducing the offence of environmental crime at european level so as to deter hazardous activities in areas belonging to the member states?
will it examine the possibility of binding oil companies operating in europe to a strict code of conduct that will safeguard the public and the environment, as well as business activities of the kind successfully developed over time in the mediterranean region?
madam president, i would like to add my support for this oral question, as i find it totally unacceptable for the united states, canada and mexico to be seeking to challenge the inclusion of aviation in the eu emissions trading system.
for example, this sector will still be allowed to access carbon credits from other industries, and the cap on aviation emissions is nowhere near as challenging as that demanded from other sectors.
including aviation here is at least a step in the right direction, and ends the legislative vacuum it has enjoyed for too long, to the extent that it is the fastest-growing source of carbon emissions.
mr president, this is a crucial time, at which the european union needs to show its leadership globally, particularly on climate change and fighting poverty, but also in terms of governance, internally.
to continue this progress in this and many other regions, regional funding must not be nationalised to the member states, and i urge the council and commission not to jeopardise this european union assistance for long-term sustainable development.
the outcome will be the same as all the other eu projects: fishing, agriculture, energy, employment, immigration and, horror of horrors, the ticking time bomb of the single currency.
however, we do have some sweets in the form of action plans on economic and social cooperation and development, which contribute to sustainable growth in partner countries.
but, if one accepts that items made by forced labour constitute unfair competition, it is impossible to avoid the same conclusion about goods made by sweated labour, by workers who are not allowed to organise into trade unions in a country where there are no environmental protection costs.
it is time for the eu to take its head out of the sand, stop obsessing about climate change, and study and address the real crisis: peak oil.
those who would stop or inhibit deep-water drilling must explain how they would find an energy-dense substitute for oil.
the proposers of this resolution are quite right to be horrified by the environmental and other costs of the bp tragedy in the gulf.
i want to congratulate the commission on what they are doing, but i want to inform the house that we in the eu lead internationally on these issues – on biodiversity, on climate change and, indeed, on the mdgs’ poverty alleviation – but, interestingly, at the un we are only given observer status.
we have the year of biodiversity, but i would suggest that every year should be the year of biodiversity.
they must realise that the tin of tomatoes that they pick up in the supermarket would not be there if it were not for biodiversity.
we talk of policy coherence in this house, but let me just refer to some of these issues: without policy coherence on access to energy in the developing world, deforestation, climate change, food security, the reform of the common agricultural policy, the common fisheries policy, land grab, natural resources and access to water, we will never protect biodiversity and we will never end the suffering of the world’s poor.
– madam president, biodiversity is not some abstract word that is used by abstruse scientists to look after some environmental peculiarity.
biodiversity is the very core of our survival on this planet as a human race.
take, for example, a recent calculation done by dr pavan sukhdev about the loss of biodiversity and the value of that loss.
his findings show that deforestation alone – the loss of the earth’s lung, which changes carbon dioxide to oxygen and which enables us to breathe – is costing usd 4.5 trillion every year.
if every year we lost an asset with the value of the new york stock exchange, i am sure everybody in this room would be up and running around, but because it is biodiversity nobody seems to care.
if we lose – as we are doing – some of the pharmaceutical genetic material which comes from biodiversity, we will be losing about 640 billion dollars’ worth of raw materials.
a lot is going to be said at the biodiversity conference about the need to put in place the correct measures but if all we end up with is a pious declaration we will achieve very little.
it is quite clear that this conference cannot possibly halt the loss of biodiversity; the pace is simply too rapid.
madam president, ‘biodiversity’ is a word i often hear bandied about by eurocrats, meps and lobbyists out here in brussels.
but what does the conveniently vague and ambiguous term ‘biodiversity’ actually mean?
because the truth of the matter is that there is no correct number of species, whether it is on a cumbrian farm or a liverpool suburb or even in a cheshire forest, and i defy the committee on the environment, public health and food safety to come up with a proper definition or stop using such ragbag words.
funds, of course, need to be put to good use in sustainable projects, hopefully with many smes benefitting both directly and indirectly in order to ensure the return on investment for a future investment programme in these regions to use.
it is also alleged that austerity is not the right answer in times of crisis, and that it is necessary to spend more on education, renewable energy, etc.
we believe that the european union budget must be used to add genuine value in areas such as securing economic growth now, and recovery in the future, stability in the eu and around the world, reducing global poverty and fighting the shared challenge of climate change.
we have made every effort to check the position with regard to the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) and there was no formal opinion, but obviously your point will be noted.
be it carbon tax, a bank levy or whatever, it is certain that the taxpayers will be taking more pain.
when people see the eu taking their money, they will increasingly resent the eu waste and lack of transparency.
in the run-up to the next eu-africa summit (tripoli, 29 and 30 november), many of those concerned are anxious that the strategic partnership should place greater emphasis on food security, including issues relating to access to food, infrastructures, land ownership and adjustment to climate change.
in 2030, the number of ships will have increased from 4 000 to 9 000, and there will be a proportionate increase in the probability of environmental incidents.
question 36 by karin kadenbach (h-0476/10) subject: common agricultural policy and cross-compliance cross-compliance is an important element of the common agricultural policy that links most cap payments to the observance of certain rules in the areas of environment, health and animal welfare.
question 40 by seán kelly (h-0458/10) subject: aquaculture in the eua sustainable and competitive eu aquaculture sector can offer a way of meeting the large and growing demand for seafood products in the eu, thereby reducing the depletion of wild stocks and the level of imports from third countries, which often arrive at eu markets after a journey involving thousands of air miles.
in the current economic environment it is more important than ever to justify expenditure on our priorities by tackling all wasteful and excessive spending in other sectors.
in the current economic environment it is more important than ever to justify expenditure on our priorities by tackling all wasteful and excessive spending in other sectors.
− whilst i support the rights of pregnant women, i can not in this current economic climate support this report.
− in the current economic climate it is hard enough for small and medium businesses to survive without the added burden of late payments in commercial transactions.
i therefore leave you and ask you to consider very carefully this question: can you really suppose that hard-pressed european taxpayers and uk taxpayers, especially in today’s environment, really want an extra eur 2 billion to be spent – because that is what these proposals provide for – just so that the eu commissioner can strut about on the world stage?
question 3 by seán kelly (h-0457/10) subject: coordination of the eu's position in cancun ahead of the 2010 united nations climate change conference in cancun, what concrete measures is the council taking to coordinate the eu's position at the negotiations, with the emphasis on the whole eu speaking with one voice?
question 7 by josé manuel fernandes (h-0470/10) subject: bio-waste on 6 july 2010 parliament adopted, by a large majority, resolution p7_ta(2010)0264, on the commission's green paper on the management of bio-waste in the european union, urging the commission to draw up a proposal for a specific directive on bio-waste by the end of 2010. during the subsequent exchange of views between the committee on the environment and the belgian minister joke schauvliege held on 14 july 2010, the latter, speaking on behalf of the belgian presidency, welcomed the resolution adopted by parliament and promised further action on the matter.
distribution of the income from the additional exports is important – we know that for infrastructure, for energy supplies, for schools, for roads, etc.
that was the commission’s intent back in 2009 when it announced a more horizontal policy approach on areas such as maritime transport, the marine environment and regional and fisheries policies.
it is a useful step in the right direction towards caring for, and sustainable use of, our maritime resource.
i am particularly pleased that the report now includes the integration of carbon emission reduction targets and support for renewable solar and wind energies on board vessels.
– mr president, i welcome the development of an integrated maritime policy that enshrines and enhances the principles of subsidiarity, competitiveness and the sustainable use of marine resources.
can i also mention in this context the impact of offshore wind, wave and tidal energy projects, together with the designation of marine protected areas (mpas), on inshore and artisanal fisheries?
we cannot simply draw lines on maps designating vast areas of inshore waters as mpas or for renewable energy.
in the whole of europe, the only country that is reproducing at sustainability level is albania, or turkey if you count turkey as a european country – and nowhere else.
− conservative meps believe that in the current financial and economic climate, proposals for new eu expenditure must be subjected to rigorous scrutiny.
a single currency only works in a tight-knit federal environment.
discarding is not conservation, it is waste.
the knock-on economic and human costs are incalculable; the ecological impact of the common fisheries policy is a disaster.
− madam president, i would first of all like to thank all of my colleagues who have made this first reading agreement possible – in particular, of course, all of the shadow rapporteurs, the commission and both the spanish and belgian presidencies, as well as the environment committee and the group staff and assistants.
as this market continues to grow it has also become the fastest-growing waste stream in the eu, estimated to rise to a huge 12.3 million tonnes by 2020. it is a very complex waste stream that includes several hazardous substances.
the waste hierarchy makes prevention of waste the first priority, which means substituting hazardous substances in products which prevent recycling or pose a risk to health and the environment when undergoing waste treatment.
the commission estimates that the current rohs directive has led to a reduction of 100 000 tonnes of certain heavy metals and two groups of brominated flame retardants from going into the waste stream and potentially entering the environment.
the rohs directive was designed to address the specific problems of a specific waste stream and i think that we have missed an opportunity to move it forward substantially by adding further restrictions.
in summary, we managed to strengthen a rather vague and unambitious proposal into a new rohs which will deliver a higher level of protection for human health and the environment now and in the near future.
so i would call on the commission to prioritise that view of the future restrictions so that we can further clean up this very important waste stream, which still creates so many problems for human health and the environment.
this will give us a real control over our economic environment’.
this report details the objectives of a plan to maintain the biomass of the stock of anchovy in the bay of biscay at a level that allows its sustainable exploitation in accordance with maximum sustainable yield, on the basis of scientific advice, and while ensuring as much stability and profitability for the fishing sector as is practicable.
the commission laid down a legal management instrument for the stock of horse mackerel according to available conservation reference points and long-term sustainability considerations.
the proposal aims at ensuring an exploitation of living aquatic resources that provides sustainable economic, environmental and social conditions.
− whilst aquaculture is an important source of both jobs and food, it is important that the wider environment is protected from potential threats.
the commission has proposed an end to this exemption, which would allow state aid only to coal mines that are slated for closure by 2014. any coal mine that does not close by that date must pay back state aid and all countries giving state aid must provide a climate change mitigation plan.
mr president, the commission’s programme contains some worthy priorities: sustaining economic growth, preserving and creating jobs, improving energy efficiency and developing renewable energy sources.
we have heard that this will produce smart, sustainable and inclusive growth but if we look at the commission’s europe 2020 document it is disarmingly frank: 23 million unemployed, 4% fall in gdp in 2009. as long as we embrace globalism we shall not dig ourselves out of the crisis.
use of alternative energy sources is one solution that can help improve the competitiveness of production.
the spread of technologies using alternative energy sources is slow in the new member states, particularly in the east.
this is exemplified by british prime minister david cameron, who this month took a 48-strong trade delegation to beijing but failed to include anyone to represent an interest or expertise in poverty reduction, environmental degradation or labour rights.
the report states that the two pillars of the common agricultural policy should focus on efficiency, but i fear incentivising small farms while rewarding environmental development could see domestic farmers move away from production-focused farming in order to benefit from the cap.
the report admits that european farmers face global competition, while having to respect environmental, food safety, quality and welfare objectives.
they are just as important for biodiversity and the pollination benefits that we have heard of – very correctly – about the honey bee sector.
it lists bee disease, bees’ weakened immunity to pathogens and parasites, climate change – you could bet that one would be in here – and the disappearance of mellifluous flora.
it covers the common agricultural policy, biodiversity, food security, pesticide use, veterinary regulations, and even the labyrinthine way of funding through the eu.
honey bees are of great economic significance and ecological importance – we all appreciate that.
i find it extremely puzzling, therefore, that they come together every three months or so and waste a tremendous amount of time and money to decide very little in the face of a crisis which is doubly underlined by what has just happened in ireland.
the legal certainty it provides will lead to improvements in environmental protection and i accordingly voted in favour of the report.
it is intended to avoid toxic waste once this equipment is thrown away, to ensure that europe’s unwanted mobile phones, computers and fridges do not damage the environment or human health by the seepage of chemicals in landfills or by giving off toxic fumes at incineration.
mr president, i am glad the commission’s 2020 energy strategy refers to the ongoing review concerning the impact of indirect land use change.
it is vital the commission meets its obligation to come forward with a proposal on this by the end of this year, both to allay widespread public concern that some biofuels currently on the market may not be producing a net reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, and also for the sake of industry which is developing innovative processes whose added value deserves to be recognised.
on that question of energy certainty, i would also ask the commission to rethink its comments on the harmonisation of national support schemes for renewables.
i am all for action at a european level when it adds value, but member states have only recently brought out their national renewable energy action plans and are working to implement them; this would be harmonisation too far.
mr president, i should like to say to the commissioner that the new energy strategy report ignores the elephant in the living room: peak oil.
the huge energy gap opening up cannot possibly be filled by mickey mouse renewables or shale carbons.
coal, nuclear fusion – and in the long term nuclear fusion plus fission – are the only energy sources dense enough to save us as the oil age comes to an end.
commissioner, now that this has been recognised, can we look forward to a new, serious approach to energy?
we must ditch all the nonsense about wind-power grids and global warming and concentrate on real scientific solutions to the peak oil crisis.
– mr president, there is not much enthusiasm for tackling global warming at the moment, rather widespread public scepticism.
i look at the climate change conferences, the enthusiasm with which saudi arabia supports the idea of carbon capture and storage being put in the cdm.
i am worried about the european union being left behind by the pace of change and i think climate change initiatives and our ability to tackle global warming offer great opportunities.
china is planning on reducing its carbon intensity by 45% over the next decade.
that means investment in new power stations replacing the old ones; it means improving its energy efficiency.
there is a real difficulty here in that, if we cannot compete with the chinese now, how are we going to compete with a more energy-efficient china in years to come?
i want us to see carbon prices rise so we drive forward the low carbon investments in the future.
we do need a fallback position, and fundamentally that must be to drive forward our energy efficiency.
likewise, using the deceitfully ambiguous term ‘climate change’ rather than ‘global warming’ may blind a few british taxpayers to the irony of holding it just as an unusually cold summer gives way to an early, icy winter.
how much longer can the fascistic eu impose ever more punitive taxes and controls on ordinary citizens on the pretext of man-made global warming, when an ever-increasing number of real scientists are rejecting the theory as unfounded and demolished?
agw is baseless propaganda, a josef goebbels-scale big lie from the green industrial complex because they favour massive transfers of wealth from the little people to carbon-trading crooks, such as al gore and goldman sachs.
and it is being exploited by leftist political elites to complete the deindustrialisation of the west because spineless conservatives are too browbeaten by global warming hysteria to stand up and tell the really inconvenient truth: man-made climate change is the most profitable con trick in history.
we had a fiasco a year ago in copenhagen, when 15 000 unqualified people, including meps and the whole entourage, descended on the place to double its carbon footprint for a fortnight and got hopelessly embroiled in climategate, which was very neatly timed to scotch the proceedings.
they were shown up as forgers of data, forgers of climate computer models, hiders of inconvenient data and conspirators with obama’s green minions.
the taxpaying masses learned in no uncertain terms that the eu and the global green agenda is all about raising our carbon taxes and scaring us into compliance.
mr president, speaking in a personal capacity, let me remind colleagues that the public has lost faith in man-made global warming.
voters are sick of being blamed for climate change and are no longer prepared to pay for it.
more and more scientists are going public to challenge climate orthodoxy.
recent, minor climate changes are entirely consistent with well-established, long-term natural climate cycles.
india and china will not forego progress in the name of climate alarmism.
if europe acts alone, we will destroy our economies and impoverish our grandchildren, while making no impact on climate.
madam president, the action plan for the eu-africa strategic partnership includes a section on democratic governance and human rights, which are regarded as ‘key for sustainable development’.
− mr president, should europe’s trade policy simply be about obtaining maximum economic advantage, or should it be used to underpin and promote our wider goals: sustainable environment policy, fight against climate change, our social model, the promotion of human rights and democratic values?
indeed, already in our actions we do put human rights, environmental protection and labour standards in our bilateral trade agreements.
we believe that in relation to gsp+, beneficiaries must be subjected to consistent and fairer benchmarking to make sure that their application of environmental, social and human standards remains at a high level and consistent.
as a member of the advisory board of the global reporting initiative, can i endorse the objective of transparency in paragraph 15, but also ask that the imminent public consultation by the commission on non-financial disclosure moves decisively towards the principle of integrated reporting on financial, social, environmental and human rights impacts by companies.
we welcome these as important steps forward to secure better human rights and social and environmental standards in the countries that are our trading partners.
if those countries want to sell on the lucrative eu markets, we should encourage them to adopt decent and sustainable standards at home.
ms saïfi, who did an excellent job as rapporteur, discusses constructively the different levels and aspects of human rights, and environmental and social standards at differing levels.
we agree with ms saïfi’s suggestion that a world environment organisation be formed and that the ilo status should be strengthened.
we liked the sustainable development chapter in ftas but wish those standards to be binding, not voluntary.
turning to mr désir’s report, we could not agree more with him when he names the transnational corporations as a source of negative effects on the environment and on our social standards.
who can object to such basic values as companies treating their employees well and respecting human rights and the environment?
when trade destroys the natural environment and lowers the living standards of local populations, we say enough is enough.
we must guarantee that respect for sustainable development and labour rights remains equally important in the pursuit of the european union’s commercial interests abroad.
yet in this report, and in the eu’s trade policy more widely, we see the commission’s determination to insert into its commercial agreements all sorts of non-commercial criteria: not only those dealing with human rights, environmental standards and so on, but also, and rather more damagingly, those which insist that other parts of the world form themselves into regional commercial blocs in mimicry of the eu.
eu trade agreements must include strong human rights, social and environmental standards.
− in 2010, the european year of biodiversity, the beekeeping sector throughout the world is gravely threatened, registering losses 100 to 1 000 times worse than normal.
this sector plays a strategic role in society, providing a public service of environmental value, and beekeeping is a valuable example of a ‘green occupation’ (improving and preserving biodiversity and the ecological balance and conserving plant life) and a model of sustainable production in a rural environment.
− i welcome this report on a new energy strategy for europe which considers that any future strategy should seek to fulfil the lisbon treaty's core objectives of a single energy market, security of supply, energy efficiency and savings and the development of new and renewable forms of energy and the promotion of energy networks; furthermore, it should contribute to affordable energy prices for the benefit of all consumers, the enhancement of renewables in the framework of sustainable energy production, and the development of interconnected, integrated interoperable and smart energy networks and lead to a reduced reliance on energy imports and an increase in indigenous energy production, while maintaining competitiveness and industry growth and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
− maintaining a strategic approach to energy within the eu is becoming more and more essential as resources become traded as ‘futures’ and regimes in other parts of the world continue to divert these scarce resources in their direction only.
whilst i can agree that an effective solution might be energy saving, it is only a part of the wider approach necessary.
the development of energy technologies such as fusion and mixtures of sustainable energy resources are essential.
however, this will only be achieved by supporting energy security as a policy with other western agencies such as nato.
− with a projected 70% of the eu’s energy being imported by 2030, often from unstable regions, security of supply must be a priority for the eu, and this resolution sets out the eu’s strategy to deal with this dependence.
energy efficiency should be a priority for the eu, in particular as it is the most effective way of cutting costs for consumers across the eu.
the resolution also calls on the commission to ensure that all current legislation is properly enforced, including a single energy market, and also reiterates the parliament’s call for the roll-out of smart meters, all of which should improve the service that consumers receive, and allow them to better control the amount of energy they use.
− i voted for this resolution, which sets out parliament’s position in advance of the cancun climate change conference.
it calls on the european union once again to take a leading role in the climate negotiations and to actively contribute to a more constructive and transparent climate conference in cancun.
− i welcome this report, which sets out how the eu’s trade policy might contribute to tackling climate change.
mr jadot wants the eu to assume international leadership on this matter and examine the possibility of a financial transaction tax, reform of the wto (particularly its anti-dumping rules), prevent the european investment bank from granting loans to projects that have a negative impact on the climate and end agricultural export subsidies – all of which i welcome.
he considers csr to be an effective tool for improving competitiveness, skills and training opportunities, occupational safety and the working environment, protecting workers’ rights and the rights of local and indigenous communities, promoting a sustainable environmental policy and encouraging exchanges of good practice at local, national, european and world level.
given the fraud and waste endemic in this budget line, and the way it is not even being used for the purposes its supporters allege, i call on the coalition in the uk to withdraw funding, as we need this money at home – yet another reason to leave the eu.
i support these calls, along with further calls to simplify the procedures relating to this funding, in particular for smes which we should be assisting in the current economic climate by reducing the administrative burden placed upon them.
since mr oettinger tells us he needs eur 1 000 billion over 10 years for energy infrastructure investment – that is about eur 100 billion a year to help tackle the twin challenge of climate change and energy security – and since that would be extremely ambitious for the european investment bank to take on, could you not bring forward proposals for the issuance of eurobonds to finance investment in infrastructure rather than to finance current government spending?
where is the ambition to cut co2 emissions by 50% by 2050?
even china, this time, recognised that there are limits to national sovereignty and accepted that there should be international verification of its emissions because we are in this together: one race, one species on a single planet.
with china well on its way to reducing its carbon intensity by 45%, it is in our economic interest to make sure that we take these measures, or we are going to be left behind economically.
i can do no better than to close with the words of my prime minister, david cameron, when he said yesterday ‘the cancún agreement is a very significant step forward in renewing the determination of the international community to tackle climate change through multilateral action.’ i congratulate every one of my colleagues here who was involved in achieving that.
mr president, as carbon crooks and one world government conspirators celebrate their advances at cancún, uk prime minister dave cameron declared his satisfaction with the outcome.
at the end of the coldest first half of december in central england since records began in 1772, dave is satisfied that the green climate fund will cost british taxpayers gbp 2.9 billion on top of the gbp 18.3 billion a year that the climate change act siphons from british consumers for the corporate crooks in the green industrial complex.
taxpayer riots over far bigger scams – bail-outs to corrupt and incompetent banks, propping up the zombie euro and the global warming hoax – are yet to come, but come they will and, unlike prince charles and camilla, their targets will deserve everything they get.
well, i suppose that is to be expected really because, while many of you were out there lecturing us on how we need to change our lifestyles to combat global warming, it was actually the coldest week that mexican city had seen for over a hundred years.
back in the uk we have also had the spectacle of scientists trying to suggest that one of the coldest novembers we have seen in the last hundred years was actually caused by global warming.
this also explains why even more british people now believe that global warming is a scam and a way to raise taxes and exert control.
but what have you actually achieved in cancún beyond handing over masses of taxpayers’ money in the guise of the green climate fund, which i suggest will end up being a lucky bag for african dictators to buy themselves more mercedes benzes and private jets?
personally i think the name of the green climate fund should be changed, and i think the ‘politics of envy fund’ would be better and closer to the truth.
(the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
every government in the world accepted at cancún the science that man’s activities are changing the climate.
amid this climate of prolonged political uncertainty, one cause for special concern is the rise of a particularly virulent form of fanatical nationalism both in the media and in society, especially among young people.
energy saving ticks an awful lot of boxes.
first of all, climate change.
cancún has reminded us how much we need to do, and energy saving is the cheapest and easiest way of moving to a 30% reduction in greenhouse gases.
secondly, energy security.
i was in zaghreb last week discussing croatia’s accession with liberal colleagues, and they told me that croatia imports 50% of its energy and also uses twice as much energy as it would do if proper energy efficiency measures were in place.
now that energy is a shared european competence under the lisbon treaty, energy efficiency must also be a shared responsibility.
by doing more on energy saving we are also tackling the very practical problems that people face in their lives.
making homes more energy-efficient puts money in people’s pockets to spend in the local economy at this time of financial and economic difficulty.
so, given all these positive effects, it comes as a great shock to realise that the 20% energy efficiency target is the one part of the 2020 package which is currently heading for failure, as the commissioner said.
i think the time has come to make a political decision here that we have to have a binding energy-saving target because without it we are actually undermining everything else that we do on the economy, on energy security and on climate change.
i would just to bring to his attention that my report on construction products will be voted upon in january and we did discuss energy efficiency in that report too.
i would also add to previous speakers in raising the issue about energy poverty, which i think all in this house would agree is vitally important to emphasise.
if we have to significantly cut our public debt year on year, if we have to avoid deficits above 1%, which the commission proposes, and if we have to do all of this in a low-growth environment with high unemployment, how can we possibly deliver on the 2020 strategy?
he said that ‘at such distance and from under the eye of their constituents’, governors must of necessity tend to ‘corruption, plunder and waste’.
how will it react, however, to proposals for less europe, or perhaps for europe to do things better, or to waste less money, or perhaps a declaration that there would never be any european taxation?
that is why the conservatives originally submitted an amendment calling for a long-term freeze in payments at 2010 levels, a move that would do much to assure citizens that the eu is doing its bit to bring long-term public spending under control and onto a more sustainable footing.
– madam president, for the past year i have served as personal representative of the chairman-in-office of the osce kazakhstan, preparing a detailed report on the key environmental issues affecting central asia.
in addition, any major energy projects involving hydroelectric power plants must be carefully designed and constructed to ensure that they do not create any disadvantage for downstream water users in neighbouring countries.
what a criminal waste of brave young lives!
i welcome the new approach by nato of looking at the broader picture, from cyber security to the threats posed by climate change and food security, but the rationale for nato is as strong today as it ever was when the organisation was first founded 61 years ago.