that makes that debate very important, but also requires us to invest energy and time within it.
they are undermining the peaceful settlement of disputes in order to control energy reserves and energy transmission channels in the region.
while one would expect the european union, at the first world conference it attended after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, to actually lead an effort towards a new ambitious, comprehensive, global agreement to combat climate change, we witnessed, along with the european citizens, an image of fragmentation with some european leaders playing their own game and the european union as a bystander or spectator.
and i want to remind you that this is not just about limiting the effects of climate change.
so each member state has to guarantee its debt obligations and the council has said that all member states must do so and the council continues to trust that greece and the other member states will take the appropriate decisions to correct the economic imbalances, to preserve the soundness of the national economic and financial environment.
it is indeed our joint challenge to improve environmentally sustainable communication systems, roads and bridges, and to protect the environment and preserve water reserves in the danube region.
we must therefore understand, and emphasize as much as possible, that the failure to achieve real equality between the sexes puts at risk today's children who lack a balanced family environment with a strong maternal presence.
the european left will oppose this policy in the european parliament, but also alongside the struggles of workers and social movements to realize the hopes of the young generation for a democratic, social, feminist, ecological and peaceful europe.
the council considers the washington convention to be a fundamental instrument for the protection of endangered species of flora and fauna, and therefore it is incumbent upon us to play an active role in ensuring that cites remains an effective tool for its dual purpose of conservation and sustainable management of natural resources.
in this respect, it should be remembered that the european union applies more restrictive rules than the convention itself, using the precautionary principle to maintain or, where appropriate, reduce the loss of biodiversity.
we have followed with great interest the discussions in the committee on the environment of this parliament with a view to drawing up the resolution, which will be put to the vote tomorrow, on the strategic objectives which the european union should set itself for the conference.
the european union must ensure that the convention remains an essential instrument to contribute to the conservation and sustainable management of precious wild fauna and flora resources.
i know that the council is counting on the support of this parliament to face up to the participation in this conference, with the common objective that the cites convention will continue to make a significant contribution to the sustainability of our planet, for our own benefit and that of future generations.
therefore it has a specific responsibility to ensure that wildlife trade is sustainable and that robust international rules are adopted within the cites convention to that effect.
with such listing, trade in those shark products will only take place if they stem from sustainable managed stocks.
this needs to be addressed first and foremost via a very ambitious policy on climate change and i think that the eu has clearly shown the way to go in the matter.
i would also like to stress that such regulation would by no means result in the prohibition of trade but would just make sure that trade is possible when it is sustainable.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
i would really like to hear some scientifically based proposals to ensure the future sustainability of bluefin tuna populations, but which also take into account the sustainability of european fishermen and their families.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
such a compromise will be a catalyst for building mutual trust, which is vital in the present age of ecological crisis, where immediate neighbours must be seen as necessary partners in tackling it.
as regards the accession negotiations, the opening of the important environment chapter last december is an encouraging development, bringing the number of open chapters to 12. i am hopeful that we will be able to open more chapters this year.
all measures that the commission has proposed and undertaken have always been aimed at ending the isolation of the turkish-cypriot community, as a means of facilitating the reunification of cyprus in line with the council conclusions of april 2004. we are implementing the eur 259 million aid package for the sustainable social and economic development of the turkish-cypriot community and its full participation in the european union following a settlement and reunification.
• take further action to reduce co2 emissions by at least 40% by 2020 on the basis of a legally binding agreement • the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
increased financial assistance to poor and developing countries for development and technology transfer a socially sustainable green economy that can boost investment, employment and improve quality of life.
the commission is also concerned that the council has not adopted the important amendment to introduce a 0.01% tax on financial transactions, which could bring in €20 000 million a year to support developing countries in combating and adapting to climate change.
we need to radically overhaul climate change policy so that there is a proper deal in the next negotiations.
− the fact that the copenhagen summit is generally characterised as a 'regrettable failure' in trying to find a global agreement to limit greenhouse gas emissions that warm the earth's climate only indicates the total lack of coordination at european level of member states with regard to the us and emerging countries.
but i hope for a positive outcome and a strong european voice on limiting the effects of climate change at the meeting next february when the world's nations are called upon to present how much they intend to reduce their emissions by 2020.
mr president, a simple letter from the council that the negotiation guidelines will fully contain parliament’s concerns, that negotiations will begin immediately with the united states and not at some point in the future, and that parliament will be fully involved in these negotiations might have sufficed, and it would not be that difficult to give in order to alleviate this parliament’s concerns about the way it has been treated, ignored and played with in the past.
that is why respecting fundamental rights in the fight against terrorism is not only a requirement of any democratic society but is a necessity in order to ensure that our policies remain credible, legitimate and sustainable.
there is therefore a window of opportunity within which the union can impose its policy and effectively reduce the barriers to our exports to the fast-growing economies, but also limit social and environmental dumping.
these are the health professionals, of course - we have talked a lot about this - these are the cleaning staff - you mentioned the staff in prisons - i would also like to talk about the staff in the school environment, in all the school medicine.
in an environment of global economic crisis, of course, it is not only greece that is in serious financial trouble.
mr president, the tragic floods that have struck the autonomous province of madeira remind us that natural disasters caused by climate change, lack of planning and infrastructure, and lack of information and preparedness can turn into human tragedies, as they have.
88% of fish stocks are fished beyond the maximum sustainable level.
the ecosystem approach should be the main principle of our new common fisheries policy, accompanied by long-term planning, participatory procedures and the application of the precautionary principle.
what we must not forget is that sustainability has three dimensions, as the neves report emphasizes: social, economic and ecological.
a fisheries policy that aims at sustainable development must not only deal with fish but must also focus on people.
fish, man, cormorants and seals are competing systems of the same ecological environment.
as energy security is a critical factor for the countries of the european union, ukraine's role is important and therefore it should be encouraged to address energy problems through improving relations with russia through the use of bilateral agreements.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the marine environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the report fails to combine the necessary protection of the marine environment, the preservation of fish stocks and the social and economic protection of fishermen, particularly small-scale fishermen, with devastating consequences for the environment and sustainable fishing, harmful for fishermen and consumers who will also be burdened by the final price of the product, without this profit benefiting small fishermen but large private enterprises.
mr president, commissioner, the debate on the taxation of international financial transactions may not be new, but it has become particularly timely today because the main lesson of the crisis in the world economy, and in particular for the euro area, which has recently been subjected to systematic attacks by speculative capital, is that the lack of transparency in financial markets and the lack of effective financial regulation and governance has had a direct and visible impact on the real economy, the sustainability of public finances and social stability.
mr president, commissioner, although developed countries are responsible for 80% of greenhouse gas emissions, developing countries are currently paying the worst of the consequences.
twenty million are today environmental, climate refugees.
and if we don't do something right now, it's going to be five hundred million by 2050. so our climate debt to these countries is huge, and it's estimated at a hundred billion euros a year.
it is very important that we move immediately to tax financial transactions in order to be able to finance our climate debt.
at the same time, this taxation allows us to restore intergenerational justice by paying off our climate debt to younger generations, helping to finance our energy decarbonization.
as regards the competitive environment in which it should operate, this is another matter which i must raise with the players in the banking sectors.
i would like to make two points: the first point concerns the thun report and paragraph 10. i think it is essential, and i think it would have been the best thing that could have happened, if we could have made it clear that workers' rights, social rights and environmental protection are not obstacles to the progress of the internal market.
i already mentioned the one which focuses on poverty, but concerning the quantity and quality of jobs in europe we have the ‘new skills in jobs’ flagship initiative; and under the sustainability pillar of europe 2020 there is a flagship initiative on industrial policy.
this plays a very important role in preventing poverty, preventing the loss of income and the loss of skills when corporations decide to relocate outside europe; and for the first time now in a very long time there is going to be a flagship initiative on industrial policy for a sustainable economy.
− starting with the second question if you do not mind, it is indeed very important to have a more stable macroeconomic environment.
in the previous answer i referred to the importance of a comprehensive economic policy in order to create a more stable environment, and indeed what was mentioned as the ‘neoliberal trend’ of recent decades needs to be reviewed.
this is a substantial change as compared to the previous regime and comes from the intention to stabilise the macroeconomic environment which would relieve the pressure on the fiscal systems that are meant to support social protection systems and employment policies.
it can contribute by providing incentives to promote the social dimension of globalisation in a broad sense: decent work, sustainable development, democratic accountability.
thirdly, i think it is necessary to include a paragraph on the need for closer cooperation with russia, a country which is a strategic partner for the union in areas such as energy security, crisis management and others.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of nuclear energy, and it is hoped that the commission will be able to take part in the discussions on the subject.
the arctic is the part of the planet where climate change is most pronounced.
global warming has led to a significant retreat of the ice.
it leads to accelerated climate change.
it negatively affects marine ecosystems, fisheries, and reduces the ability of the sea to absorb carbon dioxide, as it affects plankton and other organisms, and raises sea levels.
for this reason, mr high representative, european citizens are saddened by the european union's often discussed participation in the escalating competition for geopolitical benefits from this environmental disaster in the arctic.
our role should be to ensure that our principles are respected, that the environmental integrity of the region is respected, that principles such as international cooperation prevail, that the un institutions are respected in any new regime that emerges in the arctic from this enormous environmental disaster.
the objectives of this strategy are really important, they concern a huge number of issues that affect the lives of the people who live mainly in that area, their daily lives, and therefore they have to do with the economy, they have to do with the cultural dimensions, they have to do with the protection of the environment and natural resources, among which is, of course, water.
as has been said, this natural environment is intrinsically linked to this region, and this will be clearly included - i am convinced - in this strategy, which should be led, essentially, by those countries which promote it, such as those i have just mentioned, and which met a few days ago in budapest to make progress in defining objectives and in a more precise implementation of this strategy, which is not yet sufficiently defined.
other issues could also be added, such as navigation, energy security, rural development, demography, the fight against climate change, the effects of changes in economic markets and, in general, all those areas for which such a strategy and its implementation can undoubtedly bring about improvement.
the euratom-russia agreement on the peaceful uses of nuclear energy which is now being concluded will therefore have to contain provisions on verifiable requirements in the field of nuclear safety and the protection of the health and safety of workers.
i would also like to remind you that this issue is regularly discussed in the framework of the eu-russia energy dialogue.
as regards the assessment of environmental impact in an international context, the council notes that belarus is a party to the espoo convention on environmental impact assessment in a cross-border context, which contains binding obligations aimed at assessing environmental impact and potential environmental risks.
but in this case, what the council is saying is that the responsibility for organising the environmental assessment lies largely with the project promoters.
the next item is the oral questions to the council and the commission on investment in low-carbon technologies.
these are initiatives on which i think there is a clear consensus that they are fundamental to reducing our energy dependence, to improving our efficiency, to be able to continue to move forward on the technological path, to give a new technological impetus to the european union and, of course, to face the challenges of climate change.
after the 1970s oil crisis we saw enthusiasm for innovation adding a competitive edge, even respecting the environment, on an unprecedented scale, but this was short lived.
after oil prices had fallen consistently for long enough, investment in r&d and deployment was dropped, market case for new technologies removed, shifting consumption patterns, and we were pushed into a period of tricky comfort where we depended on cheap foreign energy.
it was a period with the illusion of sustainability.
by the way, energy r&d investment immediately after the oil crisis was approximately four times higher than currently or some years ago.
reacting to climate change threats and trying to solve energy security dependence, so i do believe that a proactive vision is a realistic and necessary approach and not a daydream.
we need to focus on energy efficiency; we need to focus, if you like, on resource efficiency, which is one of the major things included in eu 2020. i shall turn now to the second issue, which is the set plan that we are discussing.
if you look at the proposals, what we envisage, how we estimate the financing needed for the future, you will find the following figures: wind: 6; solar: 16; bio: 19; ccs: 13; nuclear: 7; smart grids: 2; fuel cells and hydrogen: 5; smart cities: 11; european energy research alliance: 5, and basic research: 1. if you add that up, it comes to 75. i would remind you that there is a figure of 7 for nuclear.
this means the european union budget, current and future financial perspectives, the european energy programme for recovery, the european union emissions trading scheme and, of course, use of the other instruments that exist, and the european investment bank especially should be considered in this respect.
we have here the european energy research alliance – the best research organisations opened outward – which is already working together today on all these major issues.
we have a very nice climate, our asset is our land, our forests have been burned as well as the forests in california, they have had olympic games as we have done; we ended up having the same problems as california.
the european council, which starts its work tomorrow, cannot afford to maintain the current climate of uncertainty and discord.
of course there is waste but there is also recruitment in the public sector in various forms.
in the 11 years of emu we have not wanted to see and recognise that the competitiveness gap and the significant inequalities and imbalances between the euro area economies are not compatible with either the sustainability or the stability of the euro area.
if we are to rise to the occasion, we must therefore immediately move towards a new and strengthened model of economic coordination and economic governance, which, mr langen, respects the rules of the stability and growth pact, but which can also go beyond the narrowly defined budgetary coordination to economic coordination with additional criteria, meeting the objectives of the european union's strategy for employment and sustainable development.
the anti-development and anti-social stability pact must therefore be changed and a different framework for economic and social policy must be created, with a focus on labour and social needs and sustainable sustainable development.
the council's conclusions on combating poverty, social solidarity, the knowledge society, research, training, tackling climate change and climate change are of course very important.
the key conclusion is that current policies have failed to achieve their main objective of reducing the supply and demand of illicit substances, and are a critical factor in increasing harm to individual users, their environment, the economy and society.
our main aim is to ensure and further increase the long-term sustainability and performance of european shipping.
we also have ambitious environmental goals, and the commission has always emphasised the need for global solutions, especially on the reduction of greenhouse gases.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's maritime transport sector is not left to the detriment of the environment.
the climate impact of air travel in the european union is enormous.
but similar humanitarian crises can also be caused by other weather phenomena, such as hurricanes, tropical storms, floods, droughts, phenomena that will increase significantly in frequency and intensity in the face of climate change.
we have a climate debt to vulnerable countries, and we need to learn from our weaknesses in dealing with the crisis in haiti so that we can meet our growing global obligations in the future.
now, how can you respond to this problem of competition coming from other parts of the world which have lower standards, both in labour and in environment?
canada is among the top ten greenhouse gas polluters in the world and is the only country that signed and ratified the kyoto protocol and then publicly announced that it has no intention of honoring its legal commitments.
instead of reducing its emissions by 6% compared to 1990, canada's emissions increased by 26%.
the greenhouse gas emissions from oil sands production are 3 to 5 times higher than conventional oil and gas production.
oil sand production also requires two to five barrels of water for every barrel of tar that is exported, and then creates a series of wastes that threaten both biodiversity and the lives of the indigenous people.
production also destroys the boreal forest, one of the largest carbon reservoirs on the planet.
by 2020, oil sands will probably produce more emissions than austria and ireland.
nonetheless, given the current situation that greece is facing, these measures are necessary to restore market confidence and to lay down the foundations for a more sustainable growth model for the greek economy in the long term.
the consolidation measures taken by greece are important for enhancing fiscal sustainability and market confidence and have been strongly welcomed by the commission, the eurogroup, the european central bank and the international monetary fund.
i realise that this is a massive problem, especially for young people, and we are actively monitoring the situation, but we are also of the opinion that long-term financial sustainability of a member state of the european monetary union is essential.
what we are saying is that we have to redress the greek economy if we want the greek economy to be sustainable over the longer term.
of course, in order for the economic programme to be credible, and to reassure investors that over time hungary would be back to sound public finances and sustainable growth, it was important that the government implemented an economic strategy that included financial consolidation measures.
regarding fiscal policy, a reinforced emphasis on fiscal sustainability is warranted because of the impact of the crisis on debt and growth potential, as well as the demographic factors kicking in.
new focus should be given to debt dynamics and sustainability and quality of public finances, including national fiscal roots.
diverging wage and cost trends, the accumulation of a sustainable external debt position and the protracted mythical allocation of resources raised the stake for adjustment and increased vulnerability of public finances.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a new regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the conclusions of that study were taken on board when the european union adopted in 2006 a specific directive on the management of extracted waste.
the directive includes several requirements to improve the safety of extractive waste management facilities and limit their impact on the environment.
explicit and precise requirements are set on the construction and the management of waste facilities which have to be operated using the ‘best available technique’ concept.
a total cyanide ban would imply stopping european extraction and consequently increase gold imports, often from countries with lower environmental and social standards.
in conclusion, i would like to insist on the importance of ensuring high waste-recycling rates and improved resource efficiency in the extraction sector.
even without considering the use of cyanide, mining for gold is far from kind to the environment.
this example illustrates the importance of increasing the separate collection and recycling of waste – in this case electronic and electrical waste which can contain gold and other similar precious metals.
the threat of the international monetary fund being involved in the crisis in my country raises fears of possible pressure and relaxation of environmental legislation and controls.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
but in 2000 the second greatest environmental disaster in the history of europe - and perhaps the world - was caused by the baia mare accident in romania, which many colleagues have mentioned.
the time has now passed when we exchanged jobs at the expense of the local environment and the health of the citizens.
any economic activity is welcome, provided it is compatible with the protection of the environment and the health of citizens.
but when we use cyanide, we put the environment and the health of the citizens at irreparable risk.
i join the voices of the local communities who suffer the most and the struggles of the environmental movements in calling for an immediate ban on the use of cyanide in gold mining within the european union.
the question of when, by what technique and with what environmental impact we will decide to mine it is what we are called upon to discuss.
as long as these conditions are not met, i believe that there should be a complete ban on this technology, which will perhaps also give incentives for companies to seriously investigate alternative, less polluting techniques, because if you have a cheap method that you do not pay for its pollution, you have no reason to investigate the alternatives.
the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on the environment.
the issue concerns many countries, the health of european citizens and the protection of the environment.
for example, the technological or social dimension referred to by mr cofferati, mr cercas and mr arif, and a dimension of combating climate change, which i link to what mrs schroedter said.
sustainable growth and job creation is indeed at the heart of europe 2020 and i want to say some words about financial stability, which is a necessary condition of returning to sustainable growth and to the goals of europe 2020. you may call it ‘europe 2010’, because we need that in order to succeed as europe 2020. the decision of the euro-area member states last sunday to activate the mechanism of coordinated and conditional financial assistance for greece was not an easy decision, but a necessary decision.
the financial support gives greece breathing space to restore the sustainability of its public finances, as well as its overall economic competitiveness.
financial stability is necessary for europe’s ongoing economic recovery for sustainable growth and job creation.
because we have no luxury of time and, instead, i urge everyone to take decisions as soon as possible, so that we can make europe 2020 a success and create real foundations for sustainable growth and job creation in europe.
the commission has also been active in the area of the environment, and has been involved in the preparation of the european council's annual report on the environment.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against pollution.
returning to the issue of climate change, the 35,000 representatives of indigenous peoples from around the world who met in cochabamba, bolivia, put their finger on the tip of the spear.
they're asking us to commit to the mexico conference in a legally binding way to reduce our emissions.
the european union must immediately make a formal commitment to reduce emissions by 30% by 2020. this will change the dynamic in the negotiations which, it is true, are now stuck, with the risk of postponing the decision on reducing emissions after mexico and without a specific date, without a specific timetable.
we all know that there is a great deal of scope for saving energy in our daily workplace and reducing our environmental footprint, and we can and must do this.
through the smart financial engineering tools it is constantly developing with the latest elena (european local energy assistance) initiative, it is expected to make a decisive contribution to boosting employment through significant investments in areas such as sustainability and security of energy supply with a direct impact on local economic development and improving the quality of life of citizens.
the promotion of electric cars will make a significant contribution to combating climate change by moving to cleaner and more advanced technologies, promoting innovation and reducing our energy dependence.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading by silvia-adriana ţicău, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the energy performance of buildings (recast) (05386/3/2010 c7-0095/2010 2008/0223 ((cod)) (a7-0124/2010).
through resettlement, the member states of the european union can demonstrate tangible solidarity with these often over-burdened countries of first asylum, at the same time protecting some of the most vulnerable refugees under sustainable and humane conditions.
a 20% reduction in energy consumption, increasing the share of energy from renewable sources in total energy consumption by 20% and increasing energy efficiency by 20%, requires coordinated and targeted action by both the eu and the member states.
in particular, improving the energy performance of buildings is the most effective way to reduce energy consumption and emissions by 20% in sectors outside the ets.
in particular, energy-efficient buildings can achieve on average 30% more energy savings than conventional buildings.
in addition, energy-efficient buildings use less water and have lower maintenance and utility costs.
i therefore voted in favour of the energy performance of buildings directive because it is expected to have a major impact on the lives of european citizens, as it directly affects the buildings in which they live and use.
moreover, investments in energy efficiency and renewable energy will create millions of jobs and contribute to the eu's economic growth, while also helping to save much needed financial resources currently spent on the maintenance of energy-intensive buildings.
the search for the reasons for the failure of the bologna process to achieve convergence in higher education between the member states, the importance of adapting education systems to prepare european societies to emerge from the economic crisis and return to sustainable development, and the importance of the penetration of new technologies at all levels of education are key points for the education system of tomorrow.
since some of the questions concerned a longer timescale, spanning into the next financial perspective, i would agree that, in a variety of contexts, housing will be affected; indeed, refurbishment in the context of energy efficiency – which, from our point of view, falls under the category of green jobs – will certainly be an area where we will have activity, without, of course, trying to have a common european housing policy.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
the recent explosion in the gulf of mexico occurred on a platform that was only built in 2001, and its subsequent sinking is causing one of the greatest ecological disasters to date.
this huge pollution is occurring at a time when ovulation peaks for many species, many of which are endangered.
the recent accident in the gulf of mexico really confirmed the risk of literal disaster to the marine environment from offshore oil rigs.
we consume oil, all of us, you and i. it seems to me that this great hall, the high house, has not been built with energy either.
and so i think we just have to know that we need a lot of oil for many years and we still have to go with all the ambition to go beyond oil: 20 percent renewable energy in 10 years.
experts say that in four decades up to 80% of our energy needs can be extracted beyond fossil energy and therefore beyond oil.
we will be happy to report back to you in the autumn when we know the causes, when we have the answers, when we have rigorously questioned our energy companies.
i think the energy companies are well aware of the seriousness of the situation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
commissioner, the proposals you presented on 12 may to strengthen economic coordination can help to build a more cohesive europe with fewer macroeconomic imbalances, provided that they do not limit themselves to the rigorous implementation of the stability and growth pact and that they effectively incorporate specific objectives for sustainable growth and employment in the framework of the 2020 strategy.
we are moving towards a new strategy for the next decade, right, and in an extremely difficult and unfavourable environment.
i thank all those who have contributed to this, in particular the members of the committees on culture and education and on industry, research and energy.
we call on parliament to ensure, together with the commission, the safe and efficient management of nuclear waste and to consider it part of the withdrawal programme.
as greens, we are calling for the remaining 40% of the 300 million euro nuclear decommissioning programme to be channelled by the bulgarian government into radioactive waste management rather than into the development of environmentally harmful uranium and coal power plants.
i am particularly concerned about lng, which in the very short term can be the economic engine of the euro-mediterranean market economy, not only for supply but also for sale, and renewable energy, another form of economy for the euro-mediterranean, but which is more short-term.
one note: the union's energy strategy and policy for northern europe is very well documented.
we have a great weakness, commissioner, in energy policy and strategy in southern europe.
the results can be very concrete, since parliament is calling in the report for a specific budget to be given through the financial perspective, for the secretariat of the union for the mediterranean, which is located in barcelona, to be helped, and of course for the various conflicts that exist not to affect the very objective of the union, which is development, the pursuit of individual and human rights, cultural exchanges, energy issues and anything that can connect the mediterranean basin to the peoples who live there.
climate change, the economic and financial crisis, migration, pollution, overfishing and the degradation of the natural environment are some of the problems that are affecting europeans and non-europeans in the mediterranean basin.
the emphasis should also be on strengthening cooperation in the field of energy, the exploitation of renewable energy sources and the exploitation of the mediterranean solar energy programme for the economic development of the southern mediterranean countries.
energy security, the fight against climate change and the marine environment are also areas where close cooperation is essential.
however, cultivating a spirit of cooperation, political dialogue and joint effort on specific objectives are crucial to building the trust that is necessary to achieve sustainable solutions.
i voted against the report because it presents evidence which is particularly damaging to genuine sustainable development, the interests of workers and consumers in general in the eu.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
it should contribute to the resolution of international and bilateral problems on the basis of the un charter and international law, with particular emphasis on the need for a just and sustainable solution for palestine, western sahara and cyprus.
such cooperation should strengthen and promote social and cultural exchanges and contribute to the formulation of common policies and actions for environmental protection and the fight against climate change.
and to implement the budget, i would like to reiterate an old proposal: i propose that we consider issuing european bonds to finance major european development programmes, such as pan-european high-speed motorways, new technologies to combat climate change at pan-european level, the creation of a single accounting system for health, major investments in energy and a single maritime system.
at the same time, climate change, which we've caused, is making it harder to access food, water, health services.
so we need additional resources to both tackle climate change and to help these countries adapt to climate change.
i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of amendment no 263 which states that it should be mandatory to mention the presence of palm oil on the food that our fellow citizens find on the shelves so that our fellow citizens do not finance global deforestation, loss of biodiversity and climate change without wanting to and without knowing it.
with our vote tomorrow in this room, we will decide whether citizens can take environmental responsibility for their food choices or whether they unwittingly fund corporations to destroy the environment and our common future.
that is why i voted today in favour of the report by the committee on industry, research and energy on internet governance, noting that the eu must establish a strategy that includes non-discriminatory access to the internet, ensuring net neutrality, respect for privacy, data protection, freedom of expression and protection of minors.
my question is this: do you think, as the political leader of europe's economic development and the commission as a body, that the issue of european bonds to finance european development mega-investments, such as transeuropean high-speed motorways, transeuropean research on climate change, e-health, a pan-european shipping system or major investments in energy, such as lng terminals in the euro-mediterranean: large pan-european investment projects to be covered by the issue of bonds, can be considered?
indeed, already in the eu 2020 we are making everything to do with these interconnections a priority for future financing at european level, be this in energy, in transport, or in other forms of immaterial connections, such as the digital agenda.
- i think that without financial sustainability we will not have social sustainability.
because without financial sustainability there is no confidence, without confidence there is no investment, without investment there is no employment, and that is why stable and sound macroeconomic policies and concern for the most vulnerable and poverty should not be set against each other.
yesterday, moody's tried to create a negative climate for the greek economy and the euro again with a crude speculative intervention by downgrading the situation of the greek economy by 4 points without substantial justification.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
− i agree with your way of reasoning and i think it is essential that we see the euro as a key policy instrument for economic policy and sustainable growth in europe and at the same time that we look at it not only as a symbol but also as a bond for europeans in building the common european home.
does it create conditions for further sustainability?
madam president, mr barroso, mr president, i hear you yesterday and today talking about smart and sustainable growth.
the new strategy is designed to reverse these trends in a particularly difficult economic environment.
i believe this will contribute to what every member of this house wants, which is a long-term sustainable peace that will allow ordinary people to get on with the lives that they value, to bring up their children and to have the benefits of the kind of lives that we take for granted.
mr potočnik and dg environment are still working.
the next item is the report by mr guido milana, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on a new impetus to the strategy for the sustainable development of european aquaculture (com (2009) 0162).
the presidency shares the objectives set out by the european parliament, namely to create a specific community framework for the aquaculture sector to enable it to achieve structured development, based on sustainability and respect for the environment, the need to have a higher economic value of production and to provide additional guarantees for consumers.
− madam president, i am very pleased to have the opportunity today to listen to members’ views on our communication on a new strategy for the sustainable development of european aquaculture.
eu aquaculture is at the forefront of sustainable development.
our industry already benefits from the recognition of its assets, its high quality and its environmental sustainability.
in close association with stakeholders, the commission will pursue its efforts to support research and ecological developments.
second, eu aquaculture complements our capture sector and is an integral part of the common fisheries policy, but aquaculture activities depend upon a range of eu policies in areas such as environmental protection, animal health and welfare, consumer protection, trade and research.
the commission will continue to ensure environmental protection in its policies and actions.
staying with this issue, we all share the view that the responsible production of fish feed is a prerequisite to sustainable aquaculture.
sustainable aquaculture with respect to the environment and coastal tourism activities can meet much of the demand with huge economic, environmental and social benefits.
let us not forget that two thirds of the aquaculture products consumed at european level come from third countries with fish of questionable quality, often produced without respect for the environmental obligations or the welfare and health rules deriving from european legislation.
it is clear that european aquaculture producers, who have to comply with a multitude of labour, environmental and commercial legislation, are subject to unfair competition.
we now have the opportunity to re-establish it as a model of sustainable economic and social development for europe.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment.
climate change is being used by capital to find a lucrative outlet in new fields of action.
i would also like to use this opportunity to pay tribute to the new chair of the committee on petitions, ms mazzoni, because she has managed in a very short time to bring new energy and impetus into the work of the committee and into the handling of the commission, and is establishing very collaborative good cooperation with other committees in parliament and with the commission as well.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
the turkish leadership has recently spoken of a new climate in greek-turkish relations.
the failure of turkey to comply with it will have negative consequences for the subsequent stages of the accession negotiations and for specific chapters such as the fisheries and energy chapters, and parliament must therefore encourage turkey to sign and ratify this agreement.
we cannot waste the talent of our young people, where every fifth young european is without a job or without appropriate prospects.
as i said at the beginning, i agree with the speakers that we have to find concrete and positive measures to stop the waste of young talent and energy and to help young people in europe.
this commission proposal, to be adopted in november, will aim to create conditions for modernising european labour markets, with a view to raising employment levels and to ensuring the sustainability of our social models.
the next item is the report by mr josé manuel fernandes, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the commission green paper on the management of bio-waste in the european union (2009/2153 (ini)) (a7-0203/2010)
vice-president of the commission.
− mr president, i would like to start by thanking the rapporteur, mr fernandes, for his report on bio-waste.
as you know, on 18 may, the commission adopted the communication on future steps in bio-waste management in the european union.
this communication is accompanied by an annex with a detailed technical analysis of the measures that could be taken to improve the management of bio-waste in the eu as a whole and in each member state individually.
while preparing this communication, our departments have been paying close attention to the debates on bio-waste held in the european parliament.
i find it very encouraging that we have arrived at the same general conclusions: there is still room for improvement in bio-waste management in the eu, and this improvement can bring positive economic and environmental results.
however, as optimal bio-waste policies may differ from country to country or even between regions, further analysis on the grounds of subsidiarity is necessary.
the main difference between the commission’s approach and the rapporteur’s approach revolves around the issue of a possible bio-waste directive.
it is possible to improve the bio-waste management based on existing and already envisaged legislation.
therefore the commission plans to initiate a number of actions aimed at improving bio-waste management, including: setting criteria for the production of high-quality compost using the ‘end of waste’ procedure envisaged in the waste framework directive; analysing the viability of setting minimum standards for the use of bio-waste in agriculture within the revision of the sewage sludge directive; and analysing the possibility of introducing targets for separate collection or recycling of bio-waste within the review of the recycling targets of the waste framework directive by 2014 at the latest.
by addressing the environment, the economy, energy and transport, as well as safety and security issues, the strategy provides a new integrating approach and brings together the key policy areas, maximising the impact by encouraging interaction between the fields concerned.
the environment is the first of four pillars of the eu strategy for the baltic sea region, and the revitalisation of the water quality of the sea itself is the keystone of the strategy.
these measures were flexible enough to allow member states to choose and implement those that are best suited to their specific national and regional environment, because we know that there is no such thing as a ‘one size fits all’ solution.
firstly, you have missed the great opportunity of drawing up an action programme for the rational development of the energy market in the euro-mediterranean area, which is in chaos, and we all expected the spanish presidency to put some order into this chaos.
secondly, as regards the prospects for european growth, you have missed the opportunity to promote an institutional framework for lng, which is the dominant energy source in the euro-mediterranean.
the kke meps vote against the report, which is in line with the commission's green paper and follows closely the eu's anti-environmental approach to the mass incineration of mixed waste adopted by the community institutions (council and commission) and the political representatives of the monopolies in the european parliament.
the report gives priority to the 'energy recovery' of urban bio-waste through 'anaerobic' digestion producing biogas and considers incineration as a 'sustainable alternative' while its adverse effects on environmental pollution and degradation are known and the benefits are negligible.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
in this context, the recent commission communication on strengthening economic coordination is certainly in the right direction, but we should not forget that our main objective is a stable and sustainable recovery of the european economy and that is why we need an economic governance framework that focuses not only on the pillar of fiscal consolidation but also on the protection of employment, growth and social cohesion.
the compromise reached with the council, which we will be asked to vote on tomorrow, defines the framework for industrial emissions in europe for the coming decades.
it is a legislative success because, in a period of great economic difficulties and of major environmental challenges, a sensible, realistic and balanced solution is being put forward.
in my country, greece, the original provisions required a violent adjustment, which would have put thousands of jobs and the country's energy security at immediate risk, or, alternatively, would have led to the installation of new filters worth hundreds of millions of euros, which would have entered old factories that would have closed in three or four years.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
we have managed, when each agency is considering whether timber is legal, to take into account the legislation concerning biodiversity and a lot of other things.
the council did not take for granted that the offence of introducing illegal timber and timber products into the european market for the first time should be incorporated into the directive on environmental crime.
on the contrary, for a europe of social cohesion and solidarity it is necessary and urgent to abolish the stability pact, to put the ecb under parliamentary political control and to increase the community budget in the direction of helping workers, pensioners, farmers and the unemployed, in order to promote genuinely sustainable growth.
i therefore believe that it would be appropriate to encourage pristina and belgrade to make a new attempt at dialogue, first and foremost on issues that negatively affect their daily lives and communication, such as local government, customs, education, energy, religion, culture.
i am also glad that you are discussing the issue of environmental responsibility.
and since you're opening up that discussion, look at the issue of environmental responsibility in both offshore natural gas drilling and ccs.
finally, as regards the impact of a possible agreement, a sustainable impact assessment of a trade agreement between the eu and mercosur has already been carried out and has been publicly available since march 2009. in addition, the commission will complete this impact assessment with a more focused economic study in the months to come.
it supports multilateralism, is a member of the g20 and is a key player in global debates on climate change, economic governance, the reform of the un, trade issues and the eradication of poverty.
as regards environmental issues, at the third summit in stockholm we planned cooperation in view of last december’s copenhagen summit and a bioenergy initiative involving brazil, the eu and the african union.
the forthcoming cancún and nagoya conferences on climate change and biodiversity are high on the agenda of the summit, as enhanced coordination with brazil is crucial to a successful outcome.
the eu and albanian capital, especially in energy, minerals and transport, as well as the aggressive eu and nato imperialist projects at the expense of workers, poor farmers and the small and medium-sized classes will benefit from accession.
it should also carefully monitor compliance with the requirements on working conditions and environmental standards so that unfair competition is not created in the same products or in directly competitive products by reductions in the above criteria.
the bové report aims to do this by taking a holistic approach, with proposals on transparency, competition and the fight against abuse of power in the award of contracts, the suppression of speculation and the safeguarding of conditions for the sustainability of production in the present circumstances.
if we want to ensure the sustainability of our pensions, not just our pensions but our children's pensions, given the demographic changes in europe and the ageing of the population, it is clear that reforms are needed.
the report also aims to initiate discussion and put in place concrete measures to create quality jobs, with full pay and social security, promoting environmentally and socially sustainable development.
in this context, the report argues for a strong public sector role in promoting its sustainable development with public services and infrastructure with environmental and social criteria.
it argues for a new industrial policy, education and skills development in a way that creates a sustainable economy, promoting gender equality and a strong role for workers' representatives.
the report promotes productive diversity, cultural heritage in agriculture, retail and direct sales by farmers, employment and financing of small and medium-sized farmers and cooperatives in ways that ensure food independence and environmental protection.
secondly, the political environment and how we can protect the neutrality and independence of humanitarian work as well as the safety of humanitarian workers.
the commission constantly advocates a set of measures to address labour market segmentation, to ensure the unemployed and other vulnerable groups have adequate support and to foster sustainable employment and social cohesion.
we have, of course, the opportunity to press for our part, but always in a context and in an environment of broad consensus among all the actors involved, in an environment which offers immediate solutions to the eu member states emerging from the greatest crisis of the last 80 years.
it did so by fighting climate change and making unilateral commitments.
i would like to return to what mrs ferreira said earlier, when she spoke of the citizens who are being pushed around, challenged by all these financial, economic, social and, let us not forget, food and ecological crises.
it is also about freeing up financial resources - and we are already using them three or four times: once to fight climate change, once for development aid, once to fill budget gaps.
the idea is, of course, to move towards macroeconomic convergence, to consolidate the budget, but i would like to remind you that the pact that binds us in budgetary matters is a pact for stability and growth, and that we will not forget the debate on growth, employment and the social and environmental policies to be pursued in europe.
it is a question of seeing what kind of budgetary quality will not only make it possible to move towards balance but also towards growth, job creation, the development of social policies and active participation, i say very active, in the fight against climate change.
to this end, the eu, civil governments and the political forces of capital in the member states and in the european parliament are strongly promoting the employment guidelines: increasing the length of time spent in employment, raising the retirement age limits on the pretext of demographic ageing and the 'sustainability' of public insurance systems.
the european union considers water to be a serious concern in the region and i fully share the concerns of the honourable members of this house, as this region is characterised by water scarcity, water stress and the deterioration of the quality of water, which are likely to be further aggravated by climate change effects.
we are aware of the impacts this can have on the people in the region, the environment and regional security.
we are supportive of water reforms and policies that encourage the application of sustainable water management.
european union activities target capacity-building of different water authorities and users, the collection and sharing of data, the availability of treated waste water, water conservation measures, including water networks, and efficient irrigation systems.
the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly has drawn up a special study on the jordan river and its valley and has called for their protection in its resolutions because the jordan river is a world heritage site, a religious and cultural symbol for millions of citizens around the world and an ecological, tourist and economic asset for the inhabitants of the region.
it is also important that the real risks are highlighted, which is not just water deprivation, it is not just pollution, but it is the loss of biodiversity and the risk of desiccation if the same situation continues.
let me conclude by confirming that the european union will continue to contribute to the efforts to alleviate the water deficit in this region and to ensure the provision of clean water resources, preserving the environment and safeguarding drinking water for the people of the region.
as in europe, individuals, companies and local municipalities need to contribute to the sustainable management of water resources.
the working group presented a progress report to the june european council and in this report the working group stressed that the budgetary surveillance process should be strengthened, including by placing greater emphasis on the level and evolution of debt and its overall sustainability in the context of the stability and growth pact.
since this decision is contrary to environmental grounds, to the reduction of road traffic and to the infringement of european union law, i would like to ask whether the council intends to examine the complaints made by the president of the commission and whether it intends to ask for such a decision to be revoked.
reforms of pension systems can also raise the employment rate and ensure the sustainability of public finances.
in parallel to the excessive deficit procedure, the council recommended to greece on 16 february 2010 to implement a comprehensive package of measures to improve the functioning of product markets and the business environment, to support productivity and employment growth, to improve the efficiency and rate of absorption of the union's structural funds, and to correct its excessive budget deficit and ensure the long-term sustainability of its public finances.
the first concerns paragraph 26 on energy supply.
i believe that both the commission and the european parliament have overestimated the importance of turkey in the energy sector.
turkey does not produce energy.
turkey is an excellent gateway for energy networks.
it doesn't solve our particular problems; there are other networks through which energy can be transferred.
let us be realistic and let us see that in the energy sector all that we are discussing (nabuco etc.)
is a paper exercise because the country itself cannot supply us with energy.
on the contrary, it is a country with a large industry which needs energy and it is in this light that we should look at it.
the next item is the report by mrs esther de lange, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the implementation of eu legislation to conserve biodiversity (2009/2108 (ini)) (a7-0241/2010)
mr president, you know that green spaces are vital to the urban environment.
the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment in the cities of greece, and the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment in the cities of greece.
if the limited reserves of public land are eventually allocated for this purpose, the environmental balance of greek cities will be dramatically burdened and the future will be jeopardized.
all european policies on the urban environment are overruled by just five words of a document imposed on a member state by the commission itself.
on the contrary, i would say that if you look at who the suppliers are for the sustainability of the gas pipelines that we as europe have designed, you will see that there is only one supplier left.
however, i would like to stress - as parliament has always stressed - that we need to move beyond piecemeal approaches to energy security and move towards a coherent european energy policy, by strengthening, in the first instance, regional cooperation and promoting projects to diversify sources and supply routes such as nabucco and itgi, complementary rather than contradictory projects that can play a catalytic role in the security of supply of the union.
madam president, since several of us in this chamber have referred to nabucco as a very important project for the energy security of europe, i would ask the commissioner to tell us, if he can, where this project is at and what progress has been made on the nabucco issue.
the debate which began with gas and storage has been broadened to include energy policy in general, far beyond gas.
but this is not just true of gas, it is also true of other energy sources, oil in equal measure, coal from the world market, nuclear raw materials.
this is why the issue of energy efficiency - how to use our energy more efficiently and not waste it - will become increasingly important.
the energy community has been approached.
i believe that the european union must become a more functioning and solidary energy community.
energy community: i consider switzerland, norway, serbia, croatia the countries of the former yugoslavia in general , but also countries such as morocco, the maghreb, the middle east or georgia, moldova, ukraine as close partners in an energy community turkey in particular.
a forecast of the energy and gas markets was requested and requested.
we have the ten-year anniversary of the russian-european energy dialogue in november.
let me start with climate change, which mr bütikofer mentioned.
in fact it is very important that we come to a common understanding with china with respect to climate change.
it is not only about politics, the economy, climate change or raw materials, but rather it is about the shared responsibility to conduct world affairs.
the second point i would like to make is the question of the environmental impact and risks of pharmaceutical products, on which we have not been able to reach a compromise.
the commission should, through pharmacovigilance, establish the obligation to monitor and report adverse environmental effects and to compare these data with the test results submitted by companies during the approval and authorisation process for new medicines.
unfortunately, we have only managed to get a call in the compromise text for the member states to consider the next stage in monitoring environmental impacts and for the commission to produce a report analysing the scale of the problem and whether there is a need to amend existing legislation.
in the current critical economic climate, the current multiannual financial framework has repeatedly proven inadequate in terms of funding many important policy priorities.
the question is specific: before proceeding with these proposals, has the commission carried out studies on the consequences of such a proposal for the position of the company on the energy market and its impact on employment and profitability?
secondly, we will bring the subject up in our external energy contacts.
that is why we are working very closely with the two committees in parliament concerned – the committee on industry, research and energy and the budgetary control committee – and also together with the court of auditors to put in place a common policy concerning these very important matters.
− the europe 2020 strategy is designed to deliver smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
these are areas where different policies, such as rural, regional, transport, environmental, fisheries, employment, etc., are called upon to solve a combination of multifaceted problems.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one.
these are things that need to be used more than ever, and that includes the renewable energy sector.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the integration of aviation activities into the greenhouse gas emission trading system within the community by peter liese and mathieu grosch, on behalf of the ppe group, saïd el khadraoui, kathleen van brempt and matthias groote, on behalf of the s&d group, chris davies and holger krahmer, on behalf of the alde group, martin callanan, on behalf of the ecr group, hassi satu, on behalf of the verts/ale group (o-0712/2010 - b7-0463/2010)
member of the commission.
let me say this once more in the end: the commission will not accept an outcome that undermines eu legislation to include aviation in eu emissions trading, which this parliament supported in 2008 with an overwhelming majority of 640 votes.
i would also like to express my dissatisfaction that the committee on industry, research and energy, which deals with industry and research, is not present in this resolution.
right now china is in a race to the bottom, taking action, making the necessary adjustments, making five-year plans on exactly how to change its industry, shutting down polluting industries, and that's because it's competing with us for a huge market, the $13 billion clean energy market.
commissioner, yes, to go ahead with the moratorium, which will not be temporary but permanent, and will be a new move towards clean energy.
the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment, which is to be adopted by the council on the basis of the recommendation of the european parliament.
there were some calls: "out of oil" "to renewable energy!"
the vast majority of these will be energy-efficient, but still run on oil.
this means that 'going from oil to renewable energy' is a long-term policy, but in the next 10-30 years, oil demand in europe will not decrease, but rather increase slightly, with all the efficiency along the catching-up vehicle density demand.
the presidency had requested that the first assessments be made, communicated and discussed at the informal meetings of the energy ministers on 6 and 7 september.
finally, madam president - the commissioner has just spoken about this - will this accident accelerate european energy policy and renewable energy?
and this policy is of course helping to reduce our dependence on oil and, in general, to move towards a low-carbon society.
i have no doubt that the 2011-2020 energy strategy, which is due to be adopted early next year, will accelerate this transition to an oil-free economy.
i have received a motion for a resolution (see minutes) tabled to wind up this debate pursuant to rule 115 (5) on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the next item is the joint debate on - oral question to the council on the main objectives for the conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity in nagoya, 18-29 october 2010 by jo leinen on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0111/2010 - b7-0467/2010) - oral question to the commission on the main objectives for the conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity in nagoya, 18-29 october 2010 by jo leinen on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0112/2010 - b7-0468/2010) on the question of the contribution of the council of the european union to sustainable development and the development of services in the field of biodiversity and ecosystems (o-064/2010-07-04) - oral question to the commission on the main objectives for the conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity in nagoya, 18-29 october 2010 by michèle striffler on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0410/2010-07-06)
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
indeed, if we do not do this, not only do we maintain a situation which is conducive to bio-piracy and is a crime at the moment against local communities and genetic resources, but we will completely lose another opportunity for the environment, the negotiations will collapse, and we will have a second copenhagen.
we must change our attitude before it is the european union, for the first time, that leads to the collapse of environmental negotiations.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that in the current critical economic climate the current multiannual financial framework has repeatedly demonstrated its inadequacy in financing many important political priorities.
in general, baltic sea countries are all very sensitive about environmental issues and maritime transport issues as well.
you know that the nordic countries initiated – and were the main drivers behind – a special decision to reduce sulphur in ship emissions, so i really do not have any evidence to single one country out from another.
the cap post-2013 will also have to address many environmental challenges, including the issue of european soil degradation, which is now a very serious problem and is exacerbated by the issue of climate change.
biodiversity is also a key priority for the sustainable management of natural resources in the europe 2020 strategy.
although the objective of halting biodiversity loss by 2010 has not been achieved, clear progress has been made and the common agricultural policy has made a significant contribution to this.
at present, the common agricultural policy supports sustainable land management through direct payments linked to compliance with environmental provisions, including good agri-environmental practices on soil erosion, organic matter content and structure, and through specific rural development measures, including payments for agri-environmental measures that go beyond the basic conditions set out in good agricultural and environmental conditions.
as regards biodiversity, the common agricultural policy now refers to compliance with environmental provisions, including the birds directive and the habitats directive, the non-compliance of which entails penalties that reduce direct aids, as well as specific rural development measures, in particular payments for natura 2000 regions and also agri-environmental payments.
as regards the cap post-2013, the commission is fully aware of the scale of the environmental challenges to be addressed and is currently studying the various possibilities for better integration of environmental issues across all instruments of the common agricultural policy, both pillar 1 and pillar 2. the impact assessment to prepare legislative proposals for the cap after 2013 is underway and a communication with the outlines for the future of the common agricultural policy is planned for november 2010. i shall be presenting this communication to the committee on agriculture on 17 november.
i therefore intend to propose objective criteria which will be combined with the initial situation to ensure a sustainable transition.
mr la via, what you are talking about are indeed issues which can be taken into account in the second pillar of the rural development programme of agri-environmental measures.
the intention is to maintain this type of agri-environmental measures which take account of the specificity of certain regions and what you are mentioning is an area where there is erosion, where some bushes can start fires.
the member states will have the possibility, through the regulation which will be proposed for the period after 2013 as well, to take account of these specific issues in the context of environmental measures and to provide for a specific support system in this direction.
− the commission is well aware that the application of cross compliance by member states can be improved, as highlighted by the court of auditors' report in 2008. however, i would also like to emphasize that the analysis carried out by the court of auditors in its report was based on a two-year period, just after the introduction of good agricultural and environmental conditions.
the quality system for agri-food products that is to be reformed will also give farmers the opportunity to communicate better, through their products, all the efforts they have to make and all the elements they have to take into account, including issues related to biodiversity.
this is particularly important when taking account of the different agricultural production systems, since this diversity of agricultural production systems also allows for consideration of environmental and biodiversity issues.
in my view, the rules and standards concerning the environment or the activities that the farmer undertakes to take account of the question of the proper management of natural resources are not separate from the economic and social question.
in the proposals we are going to make, and we will be talking about them after 17 november, the idea is not to shift the focus from economic and social issues to environmental issues alone, but to better integrate environmental issues into the farmer's thinking so that, i think, in the future we can really talk about competitive agriculture.
the farmer must be competitive from an economic and environmental point of view, that is to say, in the way he manages his natural resources, the soil and water with which he works, but also in the social aspects of creating or maintaining employment in rural areas.
i can assure you that the fact that the environmental aspect or rather the good management of natural resources is being strengthened in the cap does not weaken the ability of the farmer to be economically competitive by taking social aspects into account.
− european union aquaculture is at the forefront of sustainable development.
the commission therefore adopted a communication entitled 'building a sustainable future for aquaculture' which identifies three strategic objectives for public authorities to pursue: promoting the competitiveness of the aquaculture sector; maintaining its sustainability; and improving its governance.
in order to support the sustainable development of european aquaculture, including shellfish production, the eu has in place comprehensive animal health and food safety legislation.
the commission appreciates parliament’s support for sustainable aquaculture and for giving it a greater focus.
the commission is of the view that sustainable aquaculture activities should be adequately supported through the common fisheries policy, and that this aspect should be covered under the reformed common fisheries policy.
only axis 4 ‘sustainable development for fishing areas’ is unfortunately lagging behind due to the long implementation process required to set up partnerships.
i take this opportunity, since you have referred to the dire economic situation and the rather incomplete implementation of the european fisheries fund, to point out that i would like to know whether a complete ban on fishing gear, such as fishing nets, would prevent compensation for fishermen who lose their jobs, or whether, in accordance with the regulation, the two-year derogation from the european fisheries fund rules could be extended in order to ensure sustainable social conditions.
finally, we must review the soil directive, we must stop being 'blocked' at council level, we must take responsibility for soil pollution and know who is responsible for it.
in the world economy, the pre-crisis imbalances are re-emerging, which threatens a sustainable recovery and job creation.
this is an essential element of the g20 goal of rebalancing global growth for the sake of sustainable recovery and job creation.
we have made satisfactory progress in the context of the task force and achieved convergence towards the commission’s initiatives to reinforce economic governance, notably focusing on prevention and pre-emptive action, putting an emphasis on debt sustainability, agreeing a method to address macro-economic imbalances and establish an effective enforcement mechanism.
it called on the member states to 're-examine' policies to ensure adequate income, bearing in mind that poverty reduction requires the creation of decent and sustainable jobs.
the european union has also taken the initiative in the field of the environment, and the european union has also taken the initiative in the field of the environment, and the european union has also taken the initiative in the field of the environment.
the union needs to explain its position much more, the union needs to talk much more with groups of countries whose views differ significantly from ours and it is true, the link between climate change and the millennium goals is obvious.
the dialogue and the appropriate means must be able to allow developing countries to reflect more fully on their own reduction objectives, particularly in terms of greenhouse gas emissions.
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, like the european parliament, the council adopted conclusions on the green paper on the management of bio-waste in the european union on 25 june 2009. in its conclusions, the council encourages the commission to continue its impact assessment with a view to developing, if appropriate, a legislative proposal for eu legislation on biodegradable waste by 2010. you will tell me that it is 2010 and in particular the council has asked the commission to look at prevention measures, measures to introduce separate collection of biodegradable waste, a quality assurance system based on the principle of integrated chain management and traceability throughout the process, and the setting of labelling requirements and quality criteria for compost and digestates.
furthermore, the council of 11 june 2010 took note of the commission communication on the next steps for the management of bio-waste in the european union.
in this communication, the commission indicated that it intended to continue work on the introduction of technical rules to support the management of bio-waste and thus amend directive 86/278 on sewage sludge to this end.
the council understands that in its communication on the next steps in the management of union bio-waste, the commission did not find any gaps in the current legislation that required specific legislation, but announced a proposal to amend the directive on these sewage sludges.
this will not satisfy you, but you should also know that when the council conclusions were drawn up in 2009, it appeared that the member states were divided as to whether or not a specific directive on bio-waste was needed.
europe 2020, the new european union strategy for jobs and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, adopted by the european council on 17 june, responds to this challenge.
it envisages a reorientation of crisis management policies towards the introduction of medium- and long-term reforms, which favour growth and employment and also ensure the sustainability of public finances.
- the mr president, commissioner, the sustainable use of the marine environment is a vital prerequisite for the sustainability and development of europe as a whole, and in particular of the countries whose economies are directly linked to the sea.
the balanced development of key sectors such as fisheries, aquaculture, energy, transport and tourism can guarantee the future of jobs and the incomes of citizens.
the strategic objective of an integrated maritime policy is, through better coordination of maritime-related policies, to strengthen europe's leadership in both maritime research and technological development in areas such as shipbuilding, the exploitation of marine resources, the development of offshore energy sources.
the lisbon treaty now requires new policies and instruments to protect the environment and create jobs, to minimise conflicts, to promote synergies and to eliminate unfair competition.
the integrated maritime policy requires a cross-sectoral, comprehensive strategy for sustainable development in coastal and island regions and the seas.
finally, it is undeniable that shipping should also play a part in reducing carbon dioxide emissions.
i would like to focus on the issue of shipping emissions.
it is a very difficult task indeed, but it is necessary to include shipping emissions in the plans for reducing overall emissions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its obligations under the treaty.
the ets has proven to be quite complex, inefficient; we need to find a simple but effective solution, perhaps a carbon tax, perhaps other hybrid ways that are effective and simple.
i voted in favour of the resolution on european standardisation as it extends the environmental and safety barriers of the existing regime.
the eu's trade and relations with latin american countries must be based on equality, solidarity, respect for workers' rights and the environment and not allow the interests of the most powerful states and companies to be promoted.
but we must ensure that future trade relations between the two regions do not interrupt this process and do not compromise european standards of quality, consumer safety and environmental protection for products imported into the eu.
the increased powers of the european parliament in the fields of the economy, energy, counter-terrorism and fundamental rights are not business as usual.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that research and innovation are not an option for europe, but an obligation if we are to achieve a sustainable outcome by preserving our social model and the sustainability of our environment.
the report provides an important technical tool for financing and implementing energy projects that will help boost the economy in difficult times, complete the internal energy market and achieve the european union's 2020 climate and energy targets.
the creation of the energy efficiency and renewable energy fund is particularly important, even with this small initial funding of 146 million.
i am pleased that the european parliament remains firmly committed to promoting renewable energy and energy efficiency projects.
the next item is the joint debate on:- report by mrs izaskun bilbao barandica, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) on a long-term plan for the management of the stock of blue whiting in the bay of biscay and on fishing activities in that stock [cod/0170/2009] [cod/01809-07-0057 (cod/0112/2009) ] (a7-0299/2010) and- report by mr pat the cope gallagher, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of a multiannual plan for western sandeel and the fisheries exploiting that stock in the bay of biscay and on the long-term plan for the management of that stock in the bay of biscay and on fishing activities in that stock [cod/01809-0170-07-0057 (cod/01909) ] (cod/01809-035) and on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) on the european parliament and council regulation (ec) amending regulation (ec) no 2009/157/2009 concerning the conservation of wild and migratory species in the waters of the gulf of biscay [cod/01809-015/07] (com (2010) 0155-0185 final report by mr joão marques, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and the council regulation (ec) on the proposal for a long-regulation of the european parliament and council regulation (ec) concerning the management of the fisheries of the stock of blue whiting stock in the gulf of sandeel of sandeel of sound in the sound in the bay of biscay and on the sound (cod/07-029/07-015/07-029
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
what we are asking you to do with these reports is to move forward boldly in reforming the common fisheries policy, respecting this very principle: respect for scientific data, in order to take decisions that will ensure a sustainable future for our seas and fisheries.
it is particularly important that we should work in synergy and avoid overlapping, especially in political missions, which would be a great waste of manpower and energy for both the union and nato member states.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
i think that a distinction must be made - and this has been made in virtually all interventions - between coal as a primary energy source and, a different matter, the regulation which should regulate public aid for coal extraction from uncompetitive coal mines.
we are at a point where, unlike the environment in which we have debated in the past, we must take into account the aid to coal mining.
two additional elements must be taken into account: firstly, the challenge of climate change, which we have discussed on numerous occasions and for which the european union has very precise objectives; and secondly, the consequences on our public budgets, on national public budgets, of the crisis and the debt generated as a result of the crisis, which puts even more pressure on public finances.
skills are at the heart of europe 2020 for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
it is, i believe, equally important that we act in order to ensure that we develop the competences which the jobs of the future will require, for example in renewable energy, green building, smart transport and e-health, just to name a few.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
what i can tell mr mitchell is that these restructuring plans for the financial institutions in ireland, and in general the programme to finance the financial needs of ireland at these difficult times, will hopefully have the positive outcome of putting an end to this very difficult and challenging situation in order to put the irish economy back on the path of recovery and sustainable growth, as was the case in the past.
moreover, within the framework of the planned fiscal adjustment, the choice of the mix between expenditure and revenue measures made by the greek government takes into account important social and economic aspects, in particular in terms of potential complementarities with a package of structural reforms and measures to improve the microeconomic environment and the functioning of the public sector.
we know that 84% of european crops depend to some extent on pollinators for their fertilization and that to protect them it is necessary to create mandatory ecological recovery zones and to further strengthen agri-environmental measures through the restructuring of the cap.
since agri-environmental measures represent only 8% of the total cap budget until 2013 and each member state applies them differently, we insist that agri-environmental measures need greater strengthening and uniform implementation and control for correctness.
it also requires an emphasis on biological and ecological methods.
the new common agricultural policy must therefore provide for the whole of beekeeping by strengthening support programmes and veterinary coverage of the sector, highlighting its quality characteristics, but also safeguarding biodiversity and mitigating the effects of climate change and the degradation of natural resources.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on preparations for the cancun conference on climate change (29 november - 10 december).
it was reported by many colleagues that in 2009 we actually achieved a 17.3% reduction in emissions.
it is absurd for the european union not to compare the lulucf emission reductions with those of 1990, but to use the business as usual approach, the excess emissions and how much less we are emitting than would be expected.
mr president, today there is a major environmental scandal unfolding which should concern the cancun conference.
60% of the allowances sold to the ets originating from cdm projects are for the destruction of an industrial greenhouse gas, hfc-23, at a cost 70 times the actual cost, paid mainly by european electricity consumers.
this creates huge unjustified profits for a few companies around the world with no environmental benefit, since hfc-23 has increased in the atmosphere in recent years.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact of the kyoto protocol is not underestimated.
in the context of cop 16, europe must raise this real problem, because a change in international policy on this issue offers serious possibilities for drastically reducing greenhouse gas emissions immediately and at very low cost, and ask countries such as china, which are currently releasing huge quantities of hfc-23 into the atmosphere, which could be zeroed out if china used a little of the money it gets in taxation from these unjustified profits, to participate more substantially in efforts to combat climate change.
the waste of over 4 billion of european taxpayers cannot be tolerated.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
i am sure that your services have often explained to you that it is not possible to take and implement certain measures which are necessary for climate change.
but the threat of climate change is so huge that the question is not what to do but how to find ways to deal with it, how to find ways to implement the necessary measures.
one solution being discussed in terms of trade's contribution to climate change is border tax adjustments, which is taxing imports from countries that are not taking the same measures as us on climate change.
- the mr president, in march 2007 an environmental organisation asked for the correspondence between the european commission and the car industry to be made public as part of a consultation on the preparation of a legislative proposal on carbon dioxide emissions.
the environmental organisation turned to the european ombudsman who, a month later, drew up a draft recommendation to the commission asking it to reply within three months in accordance with article 228 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
first, to ensure that both public and private media are responding to the needs of the digital age by modernising their services without - and this is important - imposing any significant costs on consumers, and secondly, to ensure that in the new digital environment there is a viable space for broadcasting to coexist with other media such as magazines and newspapers, especially today, when the print media across europe are in complete decline.
i voted against the report on the new energy strategy for europe 2011-2020. the report is fully in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, which is also abolishing the last features of social europe.
at the same time, in the midst of the economic crisis and while almost the entire european energy industry (production units, networks) is being privatised, the report provides for greater financial resources to be allocated to energy infrastructure, i.e.
finally, i believe that the report only attempts to link the union's energy policy with its climate change mitigation objectives in a figurative way, as the references are vague and do not describe a strong political will.
the original form of the resolution on the cancun climate change conference was altered considerably and its content was greatly weakened by the incorporation of the epp amendments.
however, i voted in favour of it because i believe that the need for rapid and coordinated action at international level to tackle climate change is becoming urgent and that the resolution as a whole continues to contain many positive elements and to be an important contribution from the eu side to the cancun conference.
the report criticises the lack of preparation for the conference, stresses the need to reduce emissions by at least 40% and calls on the eu and member states to enforce the principle of 'climate justice'.
the conservation of biodiversity and the ecosystem is put at the centre, the right of access to drinking water is recognised, as is the need to conserve forests and develop a forestry policy.
finally, it is rightly pointed out that the potential for energy savings is not being exploited and the increase in energy efficiency in buildings and transport is emphasised.
what i would like to stress is that, taking into account the future orientation of cohesion policy, as at least to some extent appears in the fifth cohesion report, multilevel governance in both its horizontal and vertical dimension will play a crucial role in the sustainability of any development initiatives and in the success of the policy.
i also welcome the call for further simplification of the rules and for more technical support to local authorities from the european commission, as factors to ensure greater participation of potential beneficiaries in the programmes and the absorption of resources in a sustainable way.
we cannot take action here on climate change, on pollution and not set measurable targets in the fight against this crime.
the importance of a binding energy efficiency target for the european economy.
in difficult economic conditions for a number of member states that need strong incentives to grow, protect and create jobs, a binding target will create the right investment environment to boost the competitiveness and export potential of european companies, mainly smes, active in energy-efficient technologies and services.
in addition, households, businesses and the public sector will benefit from significant tangible economic benefits as they will enjoy lower energy bills.
the climate change negotiations are moving forward.
if we do not invest in things like energy efficiency and energy saving, then we will lose twice as much.
that is why it is really important to support a binding target for the european union of 20% energy savings.
the commissioner also stressed the need to ensure that the eu's environmental policy is consistent with the principles of the kyoto protocol and the kyoto protocol, and that the eu should be able to take action to ensure that the eu's environmental policy is consistent with the principles of the kyoto protocol.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
it is well known that in the post-cold war environment there are divergences and different degrees of threat perception, e.g.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
that is why we have not accepted the council’s proposal that after the experts’ group the initiative would go to comitology, as that would create red tape and waste valuable time for the decision to be adopted.