one is that we are preparing a sustainable european water management strategy, because water is a common resource.
it is in the interest of the community as a whole, and in particular of the new member states, including hungary, to reduce energy dependency.
the copenhagen climate summit is over.
he signed the kyoto protocol, then he increased carbon emissions by 26 percent without any consequences.
to prevent irreversible climate change, another climate change is needed.
to change the political and moral climate.
the current liberal trade rules encourage the maximum carbon emissions.
developed countries are making significant efforts to limit their carbon emissions by introducing emissions trading, promoting renewable energy sources and investing in energy efficiency.
energy consumption in these countries is also being hit by increasing taxes.
meanwhile, many developing countries are doing nothing to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions.
in fact, it's continually increasing its carbon dioxide emissions.
instead of encouraging energy efficiency, it provides electricity at a discount to the largest industrial users.
many people now say that the main comparative advantage of these countries is not cheap labor, but cheap energy.
new international trade rules should therefore be introduced to prevent trade from leading to further carbon emissions.
to that end, effective legal sanctions should be allowed to be applied if a country fails to comply with its commitments under climate agreements.
the copenhagen climate summit has not lived up to expectations.
no binding commitments were made to define the future framework for international climate action.
accordingly, the european union should also work to further fine-tune its own internal climate protection regulation.
the eu's current climate policy should not, however, put the new member states at a disadvantage, as was the case with the recently adopted internal burden-sharing legislation.
in climate action, we must look for solutions that have many other side effects in addition to reducing emissions.
urban transport improves quality of life, energy efficiency investments create jobs and r & d funds improve competitiveness.
europe cannot afford to be the victim of international climate negotiations.
even if it's the era of small steps in climate policy instead of big fights.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, the danube is one of the key ecological corridors of hungary and the union, the seventh corridor of the pan-european corridors.
but i would like to draw my colleagues' attention to the fact that, unlike others, the movement for jobbik hungary does not want to do this for profit, but with the utmost respect for international environmental rules and regulations, so as to ensure the optimal width of the channel for the water to drain and the amount of water required for river navigation.
my priority, and hungary's priority, is to protect this freshwater from all kinds of pollution.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment by the placing on the market of certain dangerous substances.
the danube strategy is therefore an important priority for the hungarian eu presidency in 2011. that is why i am pleased that today's debate has shown that, in a complex approach, we can simultaneously promote regional policy, environmental protection, navigability, economic development, job creation and tourism, and that the danube - as today's debate shows - can bring about reconciliation and peace between states that are in a state of mutually distorting tension, as the poet joseph attila said.
it was shocking that a single member of parliament who had the right to ask about china did not ask about china, when recently, at the copenhagen climate summit, the union was dealt a big slap that the united states and china had agreed behind our backs.
it is very important that these resources can be used not only in urban but also in rural environments, that they can be used for renovation but also for replacement by new housing, that reducing segregation is an important goal, that the approach is integrated, that it is done together with education, employment programmes, and in a sustainable, lasting way.
a new chapter in eu-ukraine relations after the presidential elections one of the main areas of cooperation will continue to be energy supply.
this is no coincidence, as the increasingly dependent union is channelling a significant proportion of its energy imports through its eastern neighbour.
in order to ensure energy imports, i believe it is appropriate for the european union to assist ukraine by all possible means in maintaining and renewing its energy network, in particular the vital gas pipeline system.
i want to talk about two issues: the trade deficit and co2 emissions.
as regards energy, it is not only protectionism but also price support for energy sources that distorts world trade.
meanwhile, in europe, producers have to pay taxes, they have to pay carbon quotas if they want to use energy for production.
it became clear in copenhagen that the developing countries are blocking the climate agreement, they are not willing to accept the sanctions that come with the reduction.
measures to circumvent this need to be taken, because now several economists point out that china has a greater comparative advantage in cheap carbon emissions than in cheap labour.
if we don't reduce our energy consumption, we risk being repeatedly... (the president shall withdraw the floor. )
is it good for the environment to have to transport it over such distances?
as a representative of hungary and as a politician from a new member state, i consider the new priorities set out by the european commission to be important: building a knowledge-based society, promoting innovation, strengthening social inclusion, creating new jobs and taking stronger action against climate change in the context of sustainable development.
every day, a member state or a large company announces major investment plans in the energy sector.
this is the only reason why the regulation under discussion should be supported, which would provide a uniform structure for the reporting obligations of the member states in relation to energy investments.
it can thus strengthen the eu's single energy market and security of supply.
investments in district heating cannot therefore be disregarded when coordinating energy policy investments.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, although the implementation of investment projects in energy infrastructure is already subject to serious uncertainties and the current economic and credit crisis is creating serious difficulties for investment projects in the energy sector, it should be clear that major investments in energy infrastructure in the european union in the coming years are crucial for the new european energy policy aimed at securing energy supply, mitigating the effects of climate change and maintaining competitiveness.
it is an important tool for the development of the common energy policy.
we cannot effectively support european energy policy at eu level without having sufficient information about our energy infrastructure.
i therefore see it as our common objective to ensure that the community is accurately and regularly informed about investment projects in the eu's energy infrastructure; to alleviate the burden of notification; to increase the usefulness of the analysis carried out on the basis of the information received by the commission; and to alleviate the burden on private sector economic operators, who are playing an increasingly important role in infrastructure development investments.
the regulation aims to collect positive energy infrastructure data from the member states, systematize it and make it available to economic operators at community level, thus intervening very correctly in the functioning of the market.
i would like to draw the european commission's attention to a contradiction between the high european-level economic and efficiency requirements for rail networks and the positive impact of rail on regional development, the mobility of rural residents and people with disabilities and the environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the review conference of the npt will be held in april/may 2010. it is important that the member states of the european union take a united position and strengthen all three pillars of the treaty: non-proliferation, disarmament and cooperation in the civilian use of nuclear energy.
one possible, very important source would be the use of emissions credits accumulated in the kyoto emissions trading system to sell climate assets in central europe and the baltic states.
this is of course conditional on the post-kyoto system and the support of the european council and the commission in our efforts to market our remaining climate assets in a proper way.
the representative of the council and the commission has spoken very nicely about low-carbon technologies, but has not spoken about the essence: where will the funding come from?
these countries have the right to sell carbon dioxide allowances.
i find it important that the european commission has taken into account, in a strategic energy technology plan, the level of r & d support needed to develop green technologies.
as steven chu, the u.s. secretary of energy, rightly pointed out, we need nobel prize-level research successes to compete with conventional fossil-fueled technologies in green development.
this cannot be a secondary consideration in view of the estimated costs of eur 16 billion for solar energy research or eur 5 billion for hydrogen technology.
the future revenues of the emissions trading system can provide a good basis for this.
we cannot afford to let energy policy and climate action suffer the fate of the lisbon strategy, which has produced contradictory results.
hungary and the new member states therefore attach particular importance to the formulation of these, the legal harmonisation of the internal market and the elimination of infrastructure and energy security bottlenecks.
otherwise, there's no more waste.
it's a bigger waste than two headquarters to run programs that don't produce the results they need.
it is inevitable that the following priorities for the budget guidelines 2011 have to be taken into account: the implementation of fp7, which will have reached its maturity in 2011, should be closely monitored; the development of the newly established european space policy and the promotion of scientific and technological advance, supporting innovative technologies and sustainable development; the challenges relating to sustainable energy and the fight against climate change must be reflected in the eu budget priorities; these priorities will require additional budgetary resources, particularly for funding the iter and the european strategic energy technology plan and promoting energy efficiency; the importance of the galileo project, of the gmes programme and of the european institute of innovation and technology; the proper implementation and evaluation of ongoing pilot projects and preparatory actions should be the priority.
i think it's fundamental to recognize that as the world, the economy and technology evolve, today's decision-makers are not keeping up: an energy company is slowly being able to plan ahead of international politics.
the european union must look beyond its own borders and make sacrifices to achieve a more sustainable society.
unconditional free trade unfairly takes jobs, destroys the environment, endangers the health of consumers, and increases barriers to access - simply to secure the price of a product or service.
it's nice to have a 75% employment rate, it's nice to have a triple 20 target on climate change, and it's nice to have a 10% target and a 40% target on education, but how, why, from what, and what happens to the audit, what happens to those who don't meet, and what happens to those who only meet on paper, who don't give real numbers?
the final document of the march council meeting very rightly addresses the issue of climate change in particular.
this is also welcome, because the failure of the copenhagen summit has created a very uncertain situation in climate policy.
flexibility mechanisms, including in particular quota trading schemes, are likely to remain important tools for the eu's climate action efforts.
these are just two examples of how the emissions trading system is not working smoothly.
abuses particularly disadvantage those actors making real efforts to mitigate environmental damage.
in addition, full legal coherence between international and union climate protection regulation is needed.
flexibility mechanisms are still needed for effective climate regulation.
− i thank my colleagues for the debate, as this report was produced in very close cooperation with both committees, and i would like to highlight the environment committee, which will have many such tasks in the coming period, and with the political parties.
the most important aspect of the le foll report is that without agriculture we would have no chance of tackling global climate change, but i am thinking in particular of the role of forests, which today are not sufficiently supported.
on the one hand, this is essential, on the other hand, agriculture today produces many environmental public goods - biodiversity, landscape protection, water cleanliness and so on - that are not sufficiently paid for by the market, not sufficiently paid for by the common agricultural policy, so in the common agricultural policy after 2013 we have to create a market for environmental public goods so that farmers receive those extra services, compensation for the extra services they provide.
it is very important that, according to the dorfmann report, the cap budget should continue to give priority to supporting agricultural areas with natural handicaps, without which these areas would suffer very serious ecological damage and social problems.
in recent years, very important decisions have been taken in the european union to protect our environment, such as the decision on biodiversity or the water framework directive.
the european union water framework directive obliges member states to protect the quality of our waters and prevent pollution.
is there any mining process that endangers our waters, our environment?
if we're serious about protecting biodiversity, we can't afford to use techniques that can kill life in rivers, from microorganisms to crustaceans to fish.
unfortunately, in the european environment - and in the committee on petitions in particular - there are many examples of pollution being born, being produced and not being prevented, and the european union should therefore make prevention a future objective.
and colleagues áder and seeber have also referred to the cyanide disaster in baia mare, the main island, so when we call for a ban on cyanide mining, gold mining, we are told by the very sad, concrete experience of environmental disasters.
it releases a lot of toxins into the environment.
there is no guarantee that the investor will restore the environment after the mine is completed.
the european socialists and democrats, together with the greens, the efa and the gue, are therefore not only taking the initiative, but are also asking the commission to draw up legislation by 2010 or 2011 to ban cyanide mining in the european union, because pollution does not stop at national borders, even if some countries ban cyanide gold mining, if we do not solve this problem at eu level.
i also wrote to the commissioner for the environment, stavros dimas, about the mining projects in romania (verespatak) and bulgaria (chelopech and krumovgrad).
the mining of cyanide is also known as the "chemical atom bomb", which is very dangerous for our environment.
the tisza disaster ten years ago is europe's worst environmental disaster since chernobyl.
last year, when visiting a nearby mine (roșia poieni), president traian băsescu himself declared: "you cannot sit on an ecological bomb like this, it's murder".
it is in our common interest to protect people and the environment from cyanide poisoning, just as we do from radioactive radiation and air pollution.
we need to develop a strategy, together with the member states and the eu institutions, that simultaneously ensures the post-crisis management and creates the possibility for the union and all its member states to be competitive in the global economic environment, to develop in an environmentally sustainable way and thus to increase the living standards of all eu citizens, even appreciably in the short term.
one value system has the keywords competitiveness, growth, globalisation, and the other has the keyword sustainability.
we talk about sustainability in the environmental sense.
we know that the growth, the force of globalization, is having a tremendous negative impact on the environment.
there is no sustainability.
we're talking about sustainability in the social sense.
people, small farmers, small and medium-sized enterprises, etc., who cannot keep up with the excessive competition and globalization, they collapse, they fall out of competition, they become impoverished, and this is completely contrary to sustainability in the social sense.
i think, and my constituents think, that sustainability is the one of the two values.
this means developing a new strategy for sustainable growth and job creation that will be able to boost the union.
in the field of education, digitisation and reducing energy consumption are the two main directions that offer innovation opportunities.
the eu2020 strategy should promote the 'green revolution' of the european economy, resource-efficient, environmentally friendly and sustainable economic restructuring and green innovation.
for example, bulgaria needs three times as much energy to produce a unit of gdp as germany, which further reduces the country's competitiveness if energy prices rise.
the cap will also be needed to meet the objectives of protecting the environment and combating climate change.
cohesion policy instruments can support the achievement of any policy objective, so we can promote the development of renewable energy sources, increase energy and resource efficiency, and encourage green innovation.
the european investment bank is also clearly feeling and experiencing a conscious preparation for the post-2014 eu budgetary perspective, with the possibility of involving itself in the financing of macro-regional strategies, supporting rural development, new energy sources, green investments and infrastructure development.
we must also be clear that the growth of private investment in the oil sector cannot result in policy-makers abandoning their right to strict environmental regulation.
the european union should attach high importance to research and innovation in order to address challenges such as climate change and increasing global competition.
i would like to welcome the fact that, in addition to the sustainable social market economy, environmental protection and innovation aspects, the strategy places a strong emphasis on combating poverty and exclusion and strengthening social cohesion, which is a prerequisite for the former and one of the main pillars of the programme of the spanish-belgian-hungarian presidency trio.
we are encouraging european economic actors and european citizens to save energy, and we have been doing so for three days now, but in each plenary session, if you look at the cameras, you can see the energy waste we are putting into a stadium-sized room, with more than 40 members present only at the time of the vote.
the committee on industry, research and energy has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 on the common organisation of the market in milk and milk products.
− as rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy, i would like to express our concern that the current financial framework does not have the capacity to finance the high priority european policy initiatives at the appropriate level.
the european union's powers have been significantly extended by the lisbon treaty and we should finance policies in the fields of industry, research and development, such as space policy, innovation policy or strengthening certain existing policies, such as research and development, energy and industrial development.
the committee on industry is also convinced, and we all agree, that budgetary flexibility is needed to make the set-plan, the european strategic energy technology plan, more effective than it is today.
it should be said that companies like cora, tesco, auchan and metró are responsible for flooding the market with what is called food waste in hungary.
the protracted crisis has made it clear that the union has no more time to waste.
the g20 summit is expected to address global climate protection and, in this context, the carbon tax, alongside international financial regulation.
first, when it comes to the carbon tax, we should not forget that there are already market-based climate protection instruments, just think of the eu emissions trading system.
second, a carbon tax cannot be a mere revenue-generating tool to help governments fill deficit budgets.
its introduction should be supported only if it brings substantial environmental benefits and does not impose an undue burden on the population and on european industry.
thirdly, the primary condition for the introduction of a carbon tax at community level is that other advanced industrial states follow suit.
the eu-russia summit two weeks ago was less focused on energy security than previous summits.
first of all, because gas imports, which account for one fifth of the total energy consumption, are delivered to the member states via naftogaz's networks.
the merger of the two companies would thus have a fundamental impact on the functioning of the european energy market and thus on price competition.
if the union is not able to have a say in decisions affecting its own import volume, then the common energy policy is nothing more than useless, empty words.
first, russia’s leaders have converted it into an energy-producing state, but, as energy resources are depleting, its economy is in serious trouble.
the world financial crisis has led to a collapse of energy prices, resulting in a loss of revenue for russia.
the strategy should set out a detailed and sustainable roadmap for the integrated guidelines, in particular for raising employment rates for the working age population to 75%, reducing the number of people below the national poverty line by 25% and reducing the age-group drop-out rate from schooling to below 10% and, in line with parliament's resolution, setting a target of 100% for secondary education.
that takes me to the much broader issue, namely adaptation to climate variability and climate change.
climate change is here to stay.
well, with climate change we may see the return of malaria even to the european continent.
climate systems are not linear.
regions of the world that have been at risk of climate variability for longer than us in europe – especially latin america and the caribbean – have invented insurance schemes for risk mitigation that i believe are of interest to our region.
last year, during the debate on the copenhagen climate conference, it was often predicted that one of the inevitable consequences of climate change would be more extreme weather events.
these are either where eu legislation is not sufficiently transposed or not sufficiently well implemented, or where citizens would like to see more eu competence: environmental protection, human rights.
and at least as important is what mr kalinowski has already mentioned, namely composting, and mr fernandes' report calls for the european commission to support the composting of biowaste, since this is an extremely important endeavour from an environmental and agricultural point of view - as has already been said - and also because the new member states are facing particular difficulties with both biogas and composting.
like the baltic strategy, this is transport, making the danube navigable, the other such thing is environmental protection, preserving the purity of the danube, its biodiversity, and the third is tourism.
we should also require that food from outside the european union to europe be allowed only if it meets the same animal welfare, food safety, environmental, social and other criteria.
an extraordinary council meeting will be held during the hungarian presidency in 2011, with energy policy issues primarily on the agenda.
the belgian presidency should take decisive steps to strengthen the common energy policy before then.
the new long-term budget should give a stronger role to basic energy infrastructure developments through the reform of the ten-e programmes.
another important area of action is to position new technologies that affect energy supply.
only through legal harmonisation at community level can decentralised energy production and renewables be given the necessary impetus.
we have high hopes for the commission's proposal which would provide a new legal framework for smart energy networks facilitating bilateral communication.
the implementation of the third energy package, or the final version of the gas regulation, which will be adopted in the coming weeks, should not be delayed.
for us it must be crucial to rethink and support our strategic energy technology plan, including the deep sea technologies that were mentioned by mrs damanaki.
europe can produce the safest food possible, while maintaining the highest environmental standards.
imports from third countries should be subject to the same strict environmental, food safety, animal welfare, etc.
the cap can only be justified for european taxpayers and defended in the treasury if we can demonstrate that agriculture produces social and environmental public goods for society as a whole, in addition to food security in europe.
new investments will be needed, particularly in the new member states, to achieve a european green agriculture and the production of environmental public goods.
instead of punishing them, farmers should be given financial incentives to purchase environmentally friendly machinery for soil-friendly farming, to exchange the genetic stock of cultivated varieties, to invest in environmental protection and to protect the cleanliness of the water supply.
11 years ago, the world changed, environmental protection, climate protection became important, and the european union changed, from 15 to 27 member states.
a new mandate should be developed that takes into account the perspectives of the 12 newest member states, takes into account the climate protection aspects, takes into account the global environmental protection and animal welfare aspects.
every three to four minutes, an economy is destroyed by the current paradigm, with all its catastrophic social, human and environmental consequences.
mr barroso's speech just now also touched on the main tasks for energy policy.
we do not see any backlog of job creation in the eu's energy strategy papers.
while ccs technologies with modest job potential have received generous support, energy efficiency investments that create most jobs only appeared for the first time in the complementary legislation.
regulatory and standardisation barriers to renewable technologies must be removed and research and development programmes must be expanded.
these have to be european efforts because the countries affected do not have sufficient resources, energy and commitment to tackle the problems alone.
but it really is an uphill struggle and it will take a lot of energy.
we would like to emphasise the importance of cohesion policy as an instrument and environment for employment, because if we decide on developments that reduce disparities between individual member states, we will initiate developments in the european union that bring together countries that are far apart in many respects.
there was also a great deal of agreement, and i am glad that this was underlined by the belgian presidency, that special attention should be paid to smes and the fiscal environment for them, because this is the area where new jobs can be created, or where they can be created in large numbers, and we obviously need to concentrate.
of these, investing in people as capital is the most important objective - sustainable and growing employment is needed.
clearly, there is a conflict between agricultural subsidies and biodiversity.
it is therefore very important that biodiversity is a priority in the next natura 2000 review, the cap reform and the new water policy framework for 2011-12.
in writing.
unfortunately, it is a fact for all of us that the goal of halting biodiversity loss by 2010 has not been met.
according to some estimates, the rate of biodiversity loss has fallen by 30 percent in the last 40 years, while the causes of excessive biodiversity loss have not diminished.
in view of this, our priority is to address the causes of biodiversity loss through sectoral policies as soon as possible.
this is a major challenge for policy-makers, as there are many other important economic and social interests that conflict with efforts to conserve biodiversity.
however, we must be aware that while maintaining our own prosperity and economic development, we cannot deprive future generations of the benefits of biodiversity.
the conservation of agricultural and livestock genetic diversity is a key interest for many european countries, given the economic, social, environmental and, not least, food security value of indigenous species.
in the development of security of supply policy, particular attention should be paid to temperature-dependent household consumers who are not able to switch energy.
at the same time, let me remind you that while the adoption of the gas supply regulation is a significant step, it cannot replace energy investments.
last week, four new member states sent a letter to commissioner oettinger, calling on the visegrad countries to strengthen the eu's financial instruments to support energy investment, in particular for the next seven-year financial plan.
it is important that the european union responds at community level to energy security, but member states that have not yet adequately resolved their bilateral political relations with russia must also do so.
it is a good step in the right direction, but it is clear that the law is only a prerequisite for investment, and that creating a european investment climate can also help us on the road to the crisis.
we hungarian socialists are committed to the creation of european energy security.
the hungarian prime minister promised a year ago to create complete energy independence for hungary.
we are glad that he has changed his mind and is thinking about the future of energy security and cooperation in the european union.
several spoke of cooperation on climate change.
the union's financial decision-makers have a duty to provide the means to achieve its objectives and policies, taking into account the new areas of action identified by the treaty of lisbon, including external action, sport, space, climate change, energy policy, tourism and civil protection.
this does not mean, however, that the social and environmental consequences of economic decisions should be ignored, since only growth that is accompanied by social progress and an improvement in the quality of life is beneficial.
the eu should therefore consistently enforce the principle of geographical neutrality, and environmental standards for european skies should also apply to flights from third countries.
we must not forget the environmental consequences.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate change strategy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate change strategy.
cross-border cooperation is not only necessary because certain environmental problems can only be solved if cross-border cooperation - this applies to the baltic states, the countries bordering the danube, and the black sea - is also important from the point of view of environmental pollution, but also from the point of view of interethnic relations.
i would like to thank commissioner günther oettinger for his efforts to assess whether eu legislation could prevent similar environmental disasters in the wake of the us rig accident.
this deficiency is given tragic relevance by a major environmental disaster.
the event, which may have resulted in deaths, may have caused unforeseen pollution of soil and water.
it is good that we in nagoya want to be at the forefront of biodiversity conservation, but the european union has not been able to stop the decline of biodiversity.
and commissioner potočnik, who comes from a slovenian farming family - i come from a hungarian farming family - i would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is a great contradiction between biodiversity and agricultural regulation.
this means reducing the habitat of birds and other animals, and the future of the cap will be to reconcile biodiversity and agricultural subsidies.
i fully agree with the report that we need to determine the value of environmental assets, including the market value of biodiversity, which is difficult to determine on the surface, but it is very important that farmers are incentivised and rewarded for this in the future, because the market will not do it.
we have failed in delivering 2010 biodiversity targets and we are responsible for that and we should do better.
because this has to be fundamentally understood, so that we can share the understanding of biodiversity.
it is much more than just financing and much more than just fresh money for biodiversity.
it is important that this is understood too, because this was a turning point in the climate change debate, if you remember.
one was for climate change, the other was for biodiversity and there was also the separate issue of deforestation, an important one.
many of the issues about mitigation and adaption in climate change have to do with biodiversity.
red plus is as much for climate change as for dealing with biodiversity.
so let us also prioritise the questions of biodiversity when we set the priorities on how we will use the money which is committed to red plus activities.
the next issue which some of you underlined, and which i think is the basis of all the issues, is the integration of biodiversity, the mainstreaming of biodiversity in other policies.
i believe that farmers should be partially repaid for what they do for us: they are providing food and we are grateful for that, but we should also be grateful to them for keeping up biodiversity.
it is not only about biodiversity; it is not only about climate change; it is also about the success of multilateralism and governance globally.
i took it positively but i am a bit afraid that, when we talk about biodiversity and international help, we will talk more about euros than dollars.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank all those who have spoken to highlight the importance of biodiversity.
this resolution addresses the key elements of biodiversity policy: the urgency of action, the economic aspects of ecosystems and biodiversity, the overall mission, vision, goals and indicators for the convention on biological diversity and its strategic plan, as well as the more specific aspects such as abs, synergies between the three rio conventions, etc.
the conclusions on this will normally be adopted by the environment council on 14 october.
the council will be asked to adopt the conclusions on biodiversity at its meeting on 14 october, which is next week.
the conclusions are intended to determine the main themes of cop10 and the council's position on them: the revised updated strategic plan of the convention on biological diversity, the negotiations for the protocol on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from their utilization (abs), the strategy for the mobilisation of resources, including through innovative financing mechanisms, sectoral integration and synergies between the fight against climate change, desertification and policies to promote biodiversity.
i would like to thank the commission and mrs malmström personally for the work they have done to make the visa-free regime for the western balkans sustainable.
to make up for any shortcomings and to fully reflect environmental and social considerations at member state level, decision-makers in individual countries can of course turn to alternative indicators, but it is essential for european solidarity to prevail and for member states to catch up effectively that gdp remains the fundamental and exclusive measure of the distribution of resources at eu level.
when talking about the future of cohesion policy, and in particular its objectives, priorities and structure, it is essential to mention the strategic infrastructure network across the union, which promotes the integration of eu and regional energy markets and the use of renewable energy sources.
a very important proportion of eu energy investments is in urban and rural development projects financed by the structural funds.
this includes, inter alia, investments in district heating, individual energy efficiency projects, and projects for the development of local and regional energy networks.
the use of existing union funds for energy efficiency measures should be improved in the future; and a greater use of structural funds and cohesion fund resources for this purpose should be promoted.
the resources for research, development and demonstration in the field of energy should be doubled by 2020 compared to current levels, including a significant increase in the future eu budget allocation for renewable energy, smart grids and energy efficiency in particular, as one of the means to achieve this could be the european union's cohesion and regional policy post-2013.
last but not least, in response to commissioners hahn and andor, there is also a need to focus more on the issues of resilience and sustainability: reducing the burden on families, reducing the disparities in the social division of labour that are harmful to childbearing, improving accessibility are essential to achieving and ensuring a more active, healthier age.
it's an opportunity for creative thinking, for a paradigm shift in business, for a paradigm shift in our economic, social, environmental thinking, which is becoming more and more open in our societies.
sharp focus on innovation, r&d, higher education, selected areas of energy transport, agriculture and rural development will do.
madam president, i do not know what really happened, but i would like to speak as a draftsperson for the committee on industry, research and energy (itre).
the aim of today's debate is to turn the eu's solidarity intention into concrete help and to think through the prevention of future environmental disasters.
today's debate should also address five far-reaching environmental safety issues.
all reservoirs, whether still in operation or abandoned, are subject to technical and environmental review in accordance with uniformly established eu principles.
accelerate the implementation of the mining waste directive in the member states.
during the hungarian eu presidency, the industrial and mining waste dumps in the danube catchment area should be repaired and recultivated under the danube strategy.
finally, the only industrial activity in 21st century europe should be one which either makes the waste it produces harmless or recycles it.
this will make europe safer and the natural environment more livable.
the ajka disaster may be the first real test of the environmental liability directive, which came into force in 2007, and will show whether the polluter pays principle can be fully implemented.
i urge the hungarian government to enter into negotiations with the european commission as soon as possible on the transfer of resources for environmental protection and rural development to disaster relief.
it was clear during the debate that the report by the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) had not been received by the relevant services.
mr president, i would like to welcome the transatlantic economic council on 15 december, and especially its discussion of innovation, the digital agenda and energy technologies.
these new fields are precisely what we are talking about; new challenges, like ageing society or climate change, require further development in the legislation for the enabling technologies.
finally, commissioner, it is high time to talk about energy security and think about the transatlantic energy council for the future.
you will find in this single market act many concrete proposals that we will be working on in the legal and tax environment for companies and, in particular, for the smallest ones, the revision of the accounting guidelines in 2011, a common consolidated corporate tax base - my colleague semeta is working on this - new strategies for vat, the interconnection of company registers.
these are a number of concrete proposals to facilitate the regulatory, fiscal and financial environment for small and mediumsized enterprises, and to these should be added the digital agenda on which i am working with my colleague nellie kroes, who is working very hard.
that is why we need this appropriation, this support from the citizens, to consolidate in a sustainable way this large market, which is an opportunity, which must be a space of opportunity much more than a space of constraint.
last year, i myself welcomed the fact that the eu's economic recovery package, which was presented at that time, allocated almost 4 billion euros to energy development.
however, i pointed out that the central and eastern european region, which is the most vulnerable in terms of energy security, was neglected by the aid package and that energy efficiency improvements were also excluded from the aid.
it is precisely through energy efficiency investments that the main objective of the package, namely the rapid and efficient creation of jobs, could have been most easily achieved.
investments in renewable and energy efficiency are not only one of the main means of achieving the 20-20-20 targets, but also increase security of supply and competitiveness.
the €146 million in the proposal for spending on renewable and energy efficiency investments is a good start, but it is also a small amount, even at member state level.
we are pleased that the energy 2020 strategy, which the commission published yesterday, also identifies the achievement of an energy-efficient europe as one of its top priorities.
we are confident that the strategic commitment to energy efficiency will be reflected in the allocation of additional resources.
we've forced farmers to invest in environmental protection at an unreasonable rate.
people who want to participate in loving their country, their nation, in protecting their environment, those people should be allowed to work and be respected members of society.
it's important to have proper environmental rehabilitation.
is it worth shutting down coal plants, one of the cheapest sources of electricity, when the world is beginning to see the warning signs of energy shortages?
we also need to consider the union's growing energy demand and its role in energy security.
these plans should address the situation of workers, environmental rehabilitation and demonstrate through well-founded impact studies that closure is the best and inevitable option for reducing emissions.
we said that european space policy could be better achieved at eu level, that energy research and the fight against climate change could be better solved within the european union than at the level of the member states.
we think that there is no point in wasting a lot of energy and time analysing and adopting a document several times a year which only partially covers reality.
we would have liked to see more concrete proposals on energy efficiency and energy investment in the commission's work programme.
and finally, we would be very happy, and this is very important for energy security, if we could make progress on the eastern partnership.
in the commission's reform proposal, environmental aid remains in pillar ii, but at the same time this green flag has been incorporated into the criteria for direct payments under pillar i. how this reference is made is not known today.
and beekeepers provide a lot of pollination services for agriculture and biodiversity conservation.
i am pleased to see that europe is increasingly committed to the single energy market.
this is illustrated by the fact that both today's report by mrs kolarska-bobinska and the european commission's latest energy strategy and infrastructure priorities call for structural change.
this is the only way to make the main objectives of the lisbon treaty - the single market, security of supply, energy efficiency and the spread of renewables - a reality for all member states.
i consider it a great step forward that the abovementioned documents treat energy development in central and eastern europe as a top priority.
in preparation for the cancún climate conference, the european union and its member states should finally recognise that we cannot influence the united states, china, india and the emerging major economies to fight climate change by setting new and new unilateral targets.
i agree with mrs hedegaard that the union can regain its leading role if it produces concrete results in terms of investments in research and development, the creation of green jobs, the construction of the smart energy grid and green growth.
i myself find it extremely outrageous that european taxpayers should pay almost 70 times the price for the destruction of a greenhouse gas produced by the production of a refrigerant gas that was already subject to a ban, and that this should greatly increase the extra profits of some companies, mainly chinese and indian.
it is scandalous that the european commission, citing investor confidence, does not plan to immediately suspend trading in these allowances and change this unsustainable situation before 2013. this is all the more scandalous in the light of the commission's efforts at international climate negotiations to prevent the newly acceded member states from retaining their national kyoto quotas.
the scandal that was revealed yesterday is that although european consumers have paid 1.5 billion euros to date to get rid of hfc-23, the concentration of this gas in the atmosphere, which is 12 000 times more harmful than carbon dioxide, has increased significantly over the last two decades.
my party, the movement for a better hungary, is extremely concerned with protecting the environment, restoring ecological balance.
we are convinced that europe is not only in an economic crisis, a recession, but also in an environmental crisis.
as a rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy, i would like to underline that we support the iter project, but we do not need a patchwork solution for one year: we need a sustainable financial solution for the next two decades.
many are hailing the outcome of the cancun climate conference, which concluded last week, as a success, a breakthrough, a return of hope.
the question of the use of the kyoto surplus, which is a key national asset for hungary, after 2013 thus remains open until the 2011 south african climate summit.
the following is the report by mr bendt bendtsen, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the review of the energy efficiency action plan (2010/2107 (ini)) (a7-0331/2010).
we believe that the climate change that is increasingly affecting us today is not caused solely by human pollution.
but it is our collective responsibility, both locally and globally, to curb the destruction of our environment and to try to restore it to its original, healthy state in whatever way we can.
accordingly, the promotion of energy efficiency is also welcome.
our buildings are responsible for about 40% of the world's energy consumption, so addressing this is of paramount importance.
we need to move towards zero-carbon new buildings and address the challenges of improving the energy efficiency of existing buildings.
in addition, we need to continue to reduce vehicle consumption and emissions by promoting the uptake of hybrid and pure electric technology.
i believe that we, as representatives, as politicians, need to set an example in energy efficiency.
the review of the 2006 energy efficiency action plan is an increasingly pressing task, as the energy efficiency targets are the most lagging behind of the eu's 20-20-20 targets.
europe was just beginning to recognise its backwardness and to realise that it could not afford the luxury of neglecting energy efficiency.
these investments can reduce emissions more cheaply than any other solution and immediately boost the economy.
the positive development is that, following the decision of the european parliament, the unused resources of the economic recovery programme can be used for energy efficiency improvements and green investments.
the energy 2020 strategy published by the european commission in november also identified energy efficiency as a top priority.
i am pleased that innovative solutions such as smart grids and escos implementing energy saving investments have been included in the recommendation.
energy efficiency grants should also be included in the future long-term eu budget, with particular regard to the building reconstruction programmes of the former socialist countries.
it is in the vital interest of the union and of all its member states to get as much energy as possible from as little energy as possible this can reduce external energy dependence, increase energy security and increase the union's competitiveness.
energy efficiency should therefore be a top priority for the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, and the principle should be made conditional on the call for energy tenders being made as widely as possible.
the national action plan for hungary envisages very serious steps (from 2005 onwards) in both renewable energy and energy efficiency, in line with the objectives set in the europe 2020 strategy.
the energy efficiency loan fund (eef) has been operating since 1991 to support energy efficiency investments by citizens.
the hungarian government is also planning to improve the energy efficiency of the sector's largest consumers by 60% by modernising public institutions (installation of solar panels, insulation and modernisation of heating systems) on the basis of the draft comprehensive building energy and climate protection programme.
the commission should therefore pay close attention to national action plans and their implementation and to the transposition of existing eu directives into national legislation, which could be crucial for the implementation of the 2020 energy strategy and the achievement of co2 reduction targets.