this current second revision of the agreement is a great opportunity to address the root causes of financial, climate change, food and energy crises, and, to learn from past mistakes bringing meaningful changes to the cotonou framework, as well as enhancing acp unity, cohesion and solidarity.
the primary objective of the cotonou agreement is the reduction and, eventually, the eradication of poverty in a way consistent with the objectives of sustainable development and the gradual integration of the acp countries into the world economy.
this is a new world with a new economy where fair distribution of wealth and tackling climate change are new priorities.
the un climate talks system needs life-saving surgery before mexico at the end of this year.
europe must be much more assertive in standing up for itself and, in doing so, should continue to set ambitious targets involving targets and emissions reductions of 30%.
this is an economic race to lead the world into the 21st century based on green jobs and sustainable living.
mr president, just as one swallow does not make a summer, neither does one cold winter disprove theories of climate change and global warming.
indeed, for more and more people the evidence is overwhelming because both the scientific evidence and the visual evidence prove that there is climate change.
can i just say in relation to the question itself that trees provide a carbon sink in that they absorb co2 emissions.
it removes the carbon sink; it destroys a way of life, by virtue of the fact that the amazon red indians are being wiped out; thirdly, from the point of view of agricultural production, we know that the standards of production in no way meet eu standards of compliance.
in particular the environment and energy commissioners will be pivotal to the development of europe in the coming years, and i am satisfied that president barroso has chosen the correct representatives.
i would remind the commission that the agriculture and food sector is vital for food security reasons, for environmental protection reasons and for jobs in rural areas.
madam president, this question is a very important for at least three reasons: firstly, we must think about energy security, because the day is going to come when fossil fuels run out; secondly, our climate change targets for 2020 or as some people have advocated 3020 or even 4020; and thirdly and very importantly we must reduce our reliance on fossil fuels that come from sometimes unstable and dictatorial regimes.
now, if this could happen with salmonella bacteria, you could have 450 groups doing the same research into renewable energies, for example, wind energy, solar energy, tidal energy and wave energy.
i am a little concerned, and the rapporteur points to it in her explanatory statement, that in 2002 we were also full of good intentions but that reform failed the fishing sector and failed the sustainability criteria as well.
however, i am very heartened by her very practical approach to the problems: the three principles that we need to look at – the environmental, the social and the economic – and then the practices that are needed to implement those principles.
– on a practical level i welcome the proposed developments for the long term protection of marine resources, for both environmental and economic purposes; the updating of fishing technologies, and the emphasis it places on the need for professional qualifications within the sector.
− the necessity for a comprehensive collection of data on investment in energy infrastructure within the eu is clear - an outline of the major trends occurring in the industry will be needed to allow for proper forward planning, and to highlight any potential difficulties.
energy infrastructure will be the foundation of our future economic growth.
the follow-up to the commission's roadmap for equality between women and men 2006-2010 must take into consideration the long-term consequences of the economic crisis and climate change in a society that is getting older and ethnically more diverse.
the 2020 strategy has outlined very clearly that no country can go it alone, and certainly countries along the atlantic seaboard such as ireland, great britain, france, portugal and spain can make an awful lot of progress in many areas, particularly offshore energy, marine research, fishing, maritime and naval construction, ports and biodiversity.
− mr president, the system whereby the eu gives preferential treatment in trade to some countries has been in place since 1971. it is supposed to be a mechanism to resolve trade imbalances between developed capitalist countries and the poorer countries of the world and to contribute to sustainable development.
commissioner, will you agree that in that respect it has been really a dismal failure and that eu trade agreements have mainly benefited eu-based transnational corporations who use their superior resources to batter small local producers in many poorer countries, causing serious dislocation, including loss of local employment and environmental destruction?
this will lead to a better business environment and increased competitiveness for small businesses and was well worth doing.
eu policies in areas such as the environment, climate change, energy, research, transport and fisheries, have a direct bearing on the arctic.
the first relates to the importance of investment in low-carbon technologies and the second to carbon capture in agriculture.
firstly, in realistic terms, it is essential that the eu focuses its attention and budget towards the strategic energy technology plan.
for the eu to reach its 2020 target figures, there is no doubt that increased targeted investment in low-carbon technologies is essential.
secondly, there must be increased research and investment in carbon capture and storage as a practical way of combating climate change.
here agriculture can play a key role in carbon sequestration and can contribute to the 2020 targets.
soil biomasses and natural carbon sinking – carbon in soil – could bring added benefit for farmers by reducing erosion and fertiliser inputs.
further research and investment is required in order to fully utilise agriculture and agricultural land to capture carbon and assist in reaching 2020 targets.
for measurable results to be delivered, innovation and research in low-carbon technologies must be adequately and effectively supported.
madam president, we all agree that greater energy efficiency is the first step in the chain, but i want in my contribution to draw your attention to the political confusion and anxiety surrounding bio-energy.
i think that this house in particular and the commission, and europe in general, ran away from parts of bio-energy when we had the food price hikes of 2007 and 2008. few of us are talking about the realities for most farmers across europe now, which is a crisis of confidence because prices have collapsed.
yet there is no coherent political message to them on land use and using their land to grow energy crops.
– to make carbon technology a practical reality we need to address the shortage of engineers and other high-skilled personnel designing and producing advanced technologies.
mr president, i just want to say that i think it is time that we had a conclusive paper on nuclear energy to outline the progress and the safety measures that have been brought to bear on it and how that will transpose itself in future into research that will be undertaken so that citizens can make up their minds.
there is a lot of scepticism about it – a lot of doubt – and that needs to be clarified, which will take a lot of the difficulties out of this debate on low-carbon technology.
it would be massively damaging to the environment, destroying or polluting aquifers and releasing dangerous concentrations of asbestos and uranium from tunnel excavations.
a victory for people power in val di susa would be a victory for common sense and for the environment.
but in the least developed countries such problems, for which they are not responsible, are compounded by the consequences of food and climate crises, with dramatic implications for a sixth of the world's population who suffer from hunger.
countries such as the uk and the us, both with deficits in excess of 10%, will have to undergo significant adjustment in order to restore sustainability to their public finances.
we devote a lot of time in the european union to making sure that the highest standards in farming are met; our livestock is well treated and healthy; our produce is safe; our farming practices ethical in relation to their impact on the environment.
– i welcome this timely report which addresses the role agriculture can play in mitigating the impact of climate change.
we will, however, need to find a balance between providing sufficient food for the world’s population, while producing this food in a way that does not lead to increased negative impacts on the world’s climate.
i fully support this ep report’s call to compensate farmers for their efforts in reducing emissions and to provide support in adapting to climate mitigation measures.
– mr president, there has not been any assessment of the social, environmental and economic effects of an economic agreement between the european union and canada.
terrorism has to be fought decisively, but the means employed cannot be allowed to create an environment of insecurity for citizens rights which is the very objective of terror attacks in the first place.
the eib has also played an important role in the european economic recovery plan, especially with regard to the enhanced financing for smes, energy from renewable sources and clean transport.
well, i think that what we need to do in relation to agriculture and climate change is to use the best available technologies to reduce the emissions which come from agriculture, because we all know that we need to produce more food globally rather than less.
we will need to do that with fewer resources, less soil, less water and with the pressures of climate change, and what we need is the best possible research; i believe it needs to be publicly funded and with private partnerships, so that our farmers and food industry can produce food in a climate-friendly way.
− i voted in favour of this resolution which welcomes the commission white paper on an eu strategy for climate change adaptation and proposes a range of measures across several policy fields.
even if we succeed in keeping global warming at safe levels, climate change entails unavoidable consequences which require adaptation efforts.
climate-proofing and adaptation need to be mainstreamed across policy areas, especially those concerning water, soil, agriculture and fisheries, and coastal areas.
biodiversity is at risk, but there is also a need to ensure that urban, transport and infrastructure planning does take climate change into account.
deprived communities, poor children and elderly people are amongst the most vulnerable to climate change health risks.
revenue generated by the emissions trading scheme must contribute to the adaptation effort and the eu budget needs to reflect the urgency of coping with such challenges.
one of the issues which has been mentioned is consumer concerns about how things are produced, about workers’ welfare and environmental standards.
i do think we need to talk more about sustainable production and sustainable consumption across all of our lines – food and indeed textiles.
at the same time, other public financial resources, other than official development assistance, will be provided to developing countries, in particular to help them combat climate change.
if we look at the different policy areas involved - trade, agriculture, fisheries and others - it is clear that only a joint and cooperative effort by all the major economic powers, and not just the european union, will be conducive to the creation of a development-friendly environment.
eu agricultural export subsidies gravely undermine food security elsewhere, and we have yet to assess the ecological and social impact of our fisheries agreements with developing countries.
human rights, labour and environmental standards and tax governance must guide eu negotiations with developing countries.
madam president, i also wanted to speak on energy efficiency but apparently the rule is that, if there are no amendments, no oral explanation may be made, so i will put in a written one.
can i ask the commission what action can be taken to ensure that the european union and member states create an environment in which entrepreneurs and family businesses can survive, develop and thrive and entrepreneurship is rewarded, not hindered, which is often the case in the present economic climate?
if we look downwards, we see oil gushing from an oil well, decimating the environment; if we look upwards we will see volcanic ash gushing from a volcano decimating the airlines, and if we look outwards we see recession gushing from the banks decimating the economy.
a simple message to the commission is that agriculture is vulnerable and it is important for food security, for environmental protection and because it is the very heart of the european union.
while the amount of freight transported by rail has declined over the years, the climate has now changed.
with global warming and volcanic ash, people are more amenable to travel by rail and to send freight by rail.
there are difficulties, i know, but the gains are immense in terms of cost, in terms of less pollution, less log jams, less accidents on the roads.
let us debate the issues which are important and not waste time debating this further.
one is that the environment is brought seriously into consideration when any kind of investment happens, and second that public consultation occurs in all cases so that things are transparent.
anuas air sin, measann eagraíocht bia agus talmhaíochta na náisiún aontaithe go dtiocfaidh méadú 61% ar tháirgí na hearnála faoin mbliain 2030. there is a perception that aquaculture in all its forms has a negative impact on the environment.
it is vitally important that the common fisheries policy allows the sector to substantially develop in harmony with existing eu environmental law.
in conclusion, madam president, let me say in an irish context i would support a special programme of incentives designed to promote the development of off-shore, high-energy fish farming and more economic conditions than currently practised.
this all means that we need a sustainable transport system, and that has been addressed by mr grosch, in particular in relation to the airports, such concepts as motorways of the seas – which is a wonderful development – and also rail connectivity, allowing people to move from one country to another by rail without any difficulty.
also to be welcomed is the target of reducing emissions.
it is very sustainable, but it is entirely impractical for the job i do.
what we need are very practical, sustainable transport solutions.
yes, of course we need to address the environmental issues, and i believe that will be done, through technology and through pressure on climate change.
the continuation of a strong agricultural budget will ensure that the union is well equipped to meet future challenges, including food security, the preservation of natural resources, including the environment, job creation and, most importantly, the economic viability of rural areas.
i think it significant that in this paper we are looking at not just the economic aspects of retailing but also the social, environmental and consumer impacts in this sector.
it could not be more timely, because right across the european union the citizens at large are now getting to grips with what is happening to our world, the effect of climate change and especially how they individually can make a difference.
the message from this is spreading out to their parents and the environment and there is much greater care as regards how they deal with issues, recycle waste and so forth.
european citizens benefit significantly from agriculture in the form of food security, protection of the environment, combating climate change, sustaining rural communities and supporting farming families.
the cap post 2013 should support active producers and reward them for the food they produce and the many public goods they provide to society – including high animal welfare and environmental standards.
the mercosur meat forum, which represents brazil, argentina, uruguay and paraguay, urged the negotiators not to waste an extraordinary opportunity for them.
look at the impacts of this on the environment, where europe regards itself as a leader in terms of climate change, land tenure problems in these countries, the chopping down of forests, the impact on indigenous populations and forced labour, and specifically on beef.
in your response you spoke about forthcoming summits on climate change.
are you doing any assessment on issues such as carbon leakage, deforestation, loss of biodiversity in the context of further imports of agricultural products from mercosur countries?
recent research has shown that brazilian emissions are between three and eight times higher than the irish equivalent.
madam president, security of energy supply is a very important part of the 2020 strategy.
obviously, countries will be hoping to achieve the renewable targets as set out in this agenda, but even if they do, we will still be dependent on third country supplies.
i would hope that we could reach a situation where, in the same way that we have a common agricultural policy and a common fisheries policy, we also have a common energy policy, especially in dealing with third countries – firstly to ensure security of supply, and secondly to ensure that countries like russia cannot exploit their advantage as they have done over the last year or two.
i welcome your comments on food security, biodiversity and sustainable growth, but be careful that doha and bilateral trade agreements do not destroy those noble objectives.
the report builds on the international labour organisation (ilo) definition of green jobs according to which all jobs which promote sustainable development are green jobs.
the report calls for the involvement of employees’ representatives in charge of greening the workplace - as defined by the ilo - to make workplaces, companies and industries more sustainable.
as one of the promoted objectives, increased sustainability should be inserted into the financial perspective of various funds, including the structural funds and the cohesion fund.
we need to put the creation of sustainable jobs at the top of the eu’s agenda with a progressive transition towards, and investment in, quality and environment-friendly jobs
in writing.
− sustainability of energy is one of the main issues that societies in europe face today and it also has the potential to become one of the main sources of employment in the years to come.
in addition, smes can make use of a number of private sustainability assurance schemes operating within the eu, which, depending on the criteria utilised by the scheme in question, may require that child and forced labour are not used in the production of goods and services bearing the label associated with that scheme.
this is a very important summit, and i was pleased to learn about the issues that will be addressed, whether it is growth, jobs, investment, energy, the environment or peace and security, but it is important also, as you have said, that there will be concrete deliverables.
it is most disappointing to hear, in the minister’s reply, of the lack of progress in achieving the objectives relating to biodiversity that were set down.
however, given the fact that rural development measures and the common agricultural policy can significantly contribute to the strengthening of biodiversity, what measures can the council put in place to support european farmers, who are the greatest protectors of the environment, in their vital role of further protecting the environment and biodiversity?
your response to my colleague, mr aylward, on biodiversity and your comments about the agriculture budget lead me to ask you about the council’s view.
the main principles guiding these impact assessments should be: that they act as a guide to law making, and must not replace or hinder the role of the politically accountable decision makers; and that any cost-benefit analysis should contain not only economic considerations but also social, health and environmental impacts.
i would finally call on the chair of the board to appear before the environment committee on an annual basis following the publication of the iab annual report.
this will help those whose supply of gas is affected suddenly and who are vulnerable energy consumers.
secondly, these regions are the richest in the whole of europe in terms of biodiversity, environmental protection and the delivery of public goods.
these regions offer great scope for the development of strong and sustainable tourism.
madam president, what i have heard here this evening is pretty astounding and somewhat depressing: the increase in emissions from aviation over the past number of years and the likelihood this will continue, particularly with the development of countries like brazil, india, china, russia, and a growing middle class, leading to more travel and trade and all that goes with it, and even with our own policies of youth on the move, freedom of labour, developing tourism, and with an ageing population moving around more, etc.
the question i want to ask particularly is what plans do we have at european level to reduce emissions by way of research and innovation, as we have done or are trying to do with electric cars, energy efficient buildings and so forth?
i would suggest to the minister that he look in particular at small vessels under 15 metres, in which fishermen must make a livelihood and provide for their wives and families, and at the fact that they are making no major impact on this very important renewable stock.
i urge the eu institutions to redouble efforts and use all tools of diplomacy and cooperation assistance available to them to work towards the abolition of the death penalty
madam president, i think we all were shocked at the daily spill that was occurring in the gulf of mexico and the environmental damage that occurred as a result of it.
access to energy is increasing.
goal 7 of the millennium development goals is to ensure environmental sustainability.
target 7b is perhaps the most encompassing: ‘reduce biodiversity loss, achieving, by 2010, a significant reduction in the rate of loss’.
the indicators of biodiversity include, inter alia, the proportion of land area covered by forest, co2 emissions, the proportion of total water resources used, consumption of ozone-depleting substances, and the proportion of fish stocks within safe biological limits.
the reduction in biodiversity loss is therefore a key component of the millennium development goals.
seventy percent of the world’s poor live in rural areas and depend directly on biodiversity for their survival and well-being.
the urban poor also rely on biodiversity for ecosystem services, such as the maintenance of air and water quality and the breakdown of waste.
there can be little doubt that biodiversity and climate change will affect the world’s poor first.
i am calling on the member states and the commission to give new impetus to the global climate change alliance and its support facility in order to increase developing countries’ capacity-building and knowledge base on the expected impacts of biodiversity loss and to effectively integrate it into development plans and budgets.
i have also highlighted the fact that programmes aimed at the protection of biodiversity and poverty reduction must address the priorities of the poor and put more emphasis on locally-based environmental management, ensure access to biodiversity resources, land reform, and acknowledgement of customary tenure.
the wall of poverty between north and south can also come down and we can make a world that is better and safer – a place where we can have new partners and an environment safe for us all.
madam president, this has been a very interesting debate because we now conclude that biodiversity loss is a problem for the developed world and in the developing world.
gay mitchell spoke very eloquently about the difficulties for the developing world when erosion of biodiversity occurs.
in order to guarantee food security for the world, we need sustainable agriculture in a sustainable environment.
i think another colleague mentioned that we have perhaps failed to communicate outside our own ranks, to those who are managing farms and ecosystems, about how important biodiversity is.
as has been said, we have to put a market value on biodiversity if we are serious about reversing the loss.
the focus of objective 2 programmes must be building the capacity of the regions in order to effectively contribute to the development of a greener, smarter and sustainable economy in ireland and the rest of europe.
precarious work refers to a type of non-standard employment mainly characterised by little or no job security, low level of payment, lack of social protection rights, no protection against discrimination and a work environment without minimum safety and health standards.
as well as that, the renewable energy targets and co2 emissions cannot be compromised on – nor, of course, cohesion policy, which has been very successful.
for example, ‘a more radical reform’ and i quote the document ‘would suggest moving away from income support and market measures and giving priority to environmental and climate change objectives rather than the economic and social dimensions of the cap’.
i think all of these are important: the environmental and climatic change objectives, but so too the economic and social dimension of the common agricultural policy.
if there are problems with the current system of cross-compliance, how are we going to address the potential of further problems if we deepen the requirements on the environmental side of pillar one, which is something contained in the leaked document on the reform of the cap?
the distribution of free seeds, fertilisers that are environmentally compatible and other utilities could lay the basis for a rapid recovery of food supplies, but the liquidation of landlordism in pakistan and the distribution of land to the landless is a key to food sustainability.
the rapidly evolving nature of the maritime sector requires a unified approach at european level, and the growth in maritime activities such as maritime transport, development, aquaculture and tourism – combined with new uses of the sea such as underwater technologies, offshore renewable energy and the blue biotech – is increasing pressure on an already limited maritime space.
i first of all want to congratulate the rapporteur on the presentation of her report on financial assistance for energy projects.
i strongly welcome this initiative, which provides for the creation of a dedicated financial instrument to support the development of energy efficiency and renewable energy projects.
the financing of projects in this area will help to stimulate economic recovery in europe, and indeed in my own country, ireland, and help to create new employment opportunities and also help in the fight against climate change.
lastly, european producers comply with the most stringent regulations in the world in terms of food safety and quality, the environment and animal health and welfare.
it is crucial for the long term viability of the livestock sector overall that the commission ensure that their actions on trade and agriculture do not compromise european farmers, but support the sustainability and viability of the european livestock sector into the future.
our grassland system of quality and environmentally sustainable beef production is being undercut by third-country imports.
the proposal is based on the implementation plan agreed by the european commission and the un world summit on sustainable development in 2002. at this summit, the commission agreed to maintain or to restore fish stocks to levels that can produce the maximum sustainable yield.
how we voted on this also gave us a chance to have our say on some of the other aspects of the current economic climate, such as causes of the crisis, governance and financial market reform.
− this proposal aims at ensuring an exploitation of living aquatic resources that provides sustainable economic, environmental and social conditions.
while coal and the mining of it contribute hugely to pollution, in some countries they also provide huge employment.
right now we are debating the future of the common agricultural policy and we are asking that policy to deliver more for europe in terms of environmental issues, food security and the territorial dimension, and yet all of the debate thus far has been about how can we shrink the agriculture budget.
proposals to engage the social economy, co-ops, mutual societies and microenterprises in a sustained effort to provide employment opportunities at local level are very timely and, indeed, i believe that mobilisation at local level and on a not-for-profit basis, through mutual societies, can be a driver for sustainable development.
is he confident that we will reach the 20% target for renewable energies in that strategy?
it is to provide european citizens with quality, value and diversity of food, to create local employment and deliver multiple economic, social, environmental and territorial benefits.
it must be greener and contribute to climate change mitigation.
it must address issues such as sustainable land management and biodiversity loss, promote renewable energies, foster animal and plant health and guarantee animal welfare.
there is a climate of fear.
we have to break that climate of fear.
as well as beekeepers, we need to ensure sustainable, pollinator-friendly farming practices.
i would support measures in our reformed common agricultural policy around a sustainable agriculture with habitats that support wild bee populations.
we do need to look at enhancing biodiversity, so you would have my support on that, commissioner.
it is being recast in order to simplify it and to make it easier for producers to tell which substances are banned, so as to avoid any unnecessary mix-ups that could be dangerous to the consumer and waste companies’ resources.
provisions on sustainable development are of benefit to all parties.
moreover, the inclusion of social and environmental standards in trade agreements contributes to regulate globalisation.
eu bilateral trade relations with third parties are all the more crucial for human rights and social and environmental standards when there is scant prospect of progress within the wto framework.
− climate change is a real and immediate challenge that the countries of europe are facing.
it is vital that there is a worldwide decision made quickly that may help stem the worst results of climate change.
i want to deal with one particular issue and that is reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation, the so-called redd programme, which is a very important issue, but i am concerned about a lack of policy coherence in the commission in relation to this issue.
that can only come from land that will be deforested, which will add to the climate change problem.
the fourth element of the comprehensive response has to be structural measures, as outlined in the strategy for europe 2020. these are indeed necessary for increasing our potential growth and for creating sustainable employment.
we must make the most of our single market, especially in services and energy, make the tax and benefits systems more conducive to employment growth, make more focused investment in knowledge and innovation and simplify our regulatory environment.
this is essential to europe’s transformation into a smart and sustainable economy.
i think in the fight against climate change, nearly all the emphasis up until now has been put on renewable energy which is obviously very important.
but so much more could be done in the area of energy efficiency and that is why i welcome this report.
it is very important that we should make them more energy efficient.
the manufacturers should be compelled to make them more energy efficient.
the us invasion of afghanistan was undertaken not to advance the interests of the afghan people but the geostrategic interests of the united states in central asia, which of course is rich in energy, oil and gas.