we do not question iran's right to the peaceful development of nuclear energy, nor do we intend to underestimate the important role that iran can play on a regional scale, its legitimate security needs, the need to create a credible regional security system involving all the nuclear powers in the area.
the regime's intention to intensify repression and to create a climate of terror is clear.
i was reflecting on the fact that, over the period 2007-2010, eur 100 million have been spent by the commission in support and a similar amount will be spent in the future but nonetheless an area where we have reflected again on the importance of sustainable and coordinated effort, as many members have pointed out.
as there is good progress, we are focusing more and more on iraqi ownership and long-term sustainability.
we have just signed a memorandum of understanding on energy cooperation, and we will soon sign a partnership and cooperation agreement, the first contractual relationship between the eu and iraq.
this agreement, which governs political, trade and development cooperation relations between the eu and the 77 acp countries and covers the period 2000-2020, was already revised in 2005. the provisions under the second review rightly call for the inclusion of ad hoc provisions on climate change, the review of the provisions on renewable energy, the strengthening of the provisions on rural development and food security, and greater efforts to combat illicit financial flows and tax havens.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the council and the commission on the outcome of the copenhagen summit on climate change.
that's not the league saying, that's ivo de boer, secretary of the un climate conference.
ladies and gentlemen, the global warming story is running out of time.
let's avoid unnecessary and costly speculation about the climate.
first, the commitment of all to change the climate of religious hatred that is spreading and to promote tolerance and acceptance of diversity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, gas natural, a spanish holding company, has submitted a project for on-shore gasification plants in the trieste area, which has been approved by the italian government's ministry for the environment.
it is called, mr president, to give a european face to immigration and energy policies, to launch eurobonds to guarantee recovery.
believing in a community europe means breaking your deafening silence and taking a central role in the major international issues, defending europe's interests in the economic and industrial fields, strengthening social policy and investing more to defeat poverty in the world, consolidating without reservations the alliance with the united states, strengthening the european union in international fora, starting with the un security council, recovering multilateralism in world trade and dictating the agenda for combating pollution of the planet.
the new commission will have the difficult task of fostering sustainable growth through the full implementation of the european economic model, namely the social market economy.
during this next term, the commission will have to set clear priorities and be able to give a european face to immigration and energy policies, giving the union a coherence that is difficult to achieve today.
we are used to hearing the most disparate figures, especially in our environmental theme: there's gonna be some numbers that lie and some numbers that don't lie.
having a different idea of how to deal with the tuna issue does not mean that we do not recognise that biodiversity is a value that must be defended.
the council is of course aware of the results of the last meeting of the scientific committee of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) in october 2009 and also of the recommendations of the independent panel of experts of the fao in december 2009. in this respect, the council is fully aware of the implications of the proposal to include tuna in the cites appendices, not only for the conservation of the species but also for the survival of traditional fishing methods in some fisheries which have proved to be sustainable for the species.
i would also like to convey to the honourable members the commitment of the spanish presidency to ensure the conservation and sustainable management of endangered species.
i can assure you that the commission will be in favour of sustainable trade for the benefits of both biodiversity and the communities which need to live in harmony with the species concerned.
i am really confident that this proposal will ensure a sustainable future for both this species and the associated fishing industry.
as regards tuna, there are countries such as france and italy which are more interested in fishing for bluefin tuna and therefore in protecting the species for its sustainable use.
we will have to deal with difficult chapters such as those relating to competition, fisheries, the judiciary and fundamental rights, the environment and foreign, security and defence policy.
the new commissioner, štefan füle - my former colleague as minister for europe, whom i welcome and congratulate on his election - will have a lot of work to do on the dossier 'enlargement': in the case of croatia, because already next week we intend to hold a first intergovernmental conference at the level of alternates to open the chapter on fisheries and the chapter on the environment, two very significant chapters which require, as you can imagine, a lot of work, a lot of work, a lot of dedication.
the parliament's resolution highlights many of the challenges facing the country: the increased level of non-compliance with the law, corruption, the follow-up of the recommendations of the organization for security and cooperation in europe and the office for democratic institutions and human rights, the allocation of funds for effective decentralisation, access to justice, the increased participation of women in political life, support for civil society organisations, persistently high unemployment, environmental problems, etc.
the energy chapter is also important - and we must emphasise this - and it has become particularly important since the nabucco agreement was signed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to give the vote on amendment no 12 the reason for which it is that italy of values is opposed to the production of nuclear energy.
we do it because we want a clean, renewable energy future, powered by solar and wind.
i believe it is essential to make a joint effort to ensure that reconstruction is sustainable in the medium and long term and that the haitian people are the main beneficiaries of this commitment.
the iranian authorities bear a responsibility for fomenting this dangerous climate of intolerance and intimidation towards certain countries of the european union.
- i voted in favour of the motions for resolutions on the outcome of the copenhagen summit on climate change, albeit with some reservations.
this is not only an inadequate response to the global fight against climate change, but also leaves unresolved the problem of distortion of international competition to the detriment of european companies, which, unlike their main competitors in other countries such as the united states and china, already have to meet ambitious emission reduction targets.
i believe that the european union must work towards an effective strategy for the forthcoming international meetings, a strategy aimed at promoting ecotechnologies, energy efficiency and renewable sources and creating a truly effective global system for combating climate change that does not further distort international competition.
the resolution calls for the adoption of a new law on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against pollution, and calls for the adoption of a new law on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
we are asking for all the papers to be put together, mr commissioner, and we believe that, in the climate of codecision that has been established with lisbon, there is no way of reaching an interim agreement which would be opposed by us because we want to work together.
the lack of a european union policy is not further sustainable in light of the challenges inherent in the cross-border nature of interactive gambling services.
madam president, how can we think of a green and sustainable europe if we do not take into account that 45% of the european territory is managed by farmers?
i would remind you that agriculture provides a number of essential services, such as food, biodiversity, landscape and the environment, which are functions carried out for the social and economic vitality of rural areas.
i would like to mention again the question of the saharawi, which has been unresolved for a long time, and i would also like to mention the rights of climate refugees who are being driven out of their country by dramatic climate change.
the european union must put at the heart of the reinforcement of the beijing + 15 objectives, for women, policies for access to environmental resources and credit, including through microfinance, reconciliation between family and working life, including the adoption of the directive on parental leave, training policies and incentives for companies that employ young people and women, as well as the fight against human trafficking with a new directive, which we hope will be based on the resolution adopted at the last session in strasbourg.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 23 february in villasanta, lombardy, an exceptional oil spill from a tank in an abandoned refinery caused a gigantic pollution of the nearby lambro river.
the scale of the ecological disaster, with the release of thousands of cubic metres of oil, is undermining the ecosystem of the lambro river and the fauna, and is threatening to spread, despite the measures taken, to the po river, which runs through the entire po valley and empties into the adriatic sea.
the exceptional nature and urgency of the situation, which have already led to a request for a declaration of a state of emergency by the lombardy region, are such that they require - and i am asking for a signal through the presidency - also the intervention of the european union, both from the point of view of the coordination of environmental initiatives in the areas at risk, of which the po valley area is certainly part, and in view of the scale of the financial resources that will be necessary for the absolutely necessary restoration of the environmental situation of this vast area affected by an ecological accident of epochal nature.
i congratulate the european commission for submitting to the council the amendment of the regulation on investment projects in energy infrastructure in the european union.
the first is the transparent information on the security and confidentiality of sensitive data which the commission must receive periodically for the effective management of energy policy.
the report is updated in line with the lisbon treaty, which gives particular attention to energy policy, strengthening and coordinating its approaches and the investments needed in this sector.
the european parliament is following the matter with particular attention in order to guide energy investments in the construction, transport and storage of energy products, to satisfy the manufacturing and distribution industries and to protect the health of the consumer.
the second reason is that, as the eu is short of energy products and as domestic demand grows daily alongside imports, eu energy policy must focus on diversification, security of supply and energy efficiency.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a regulation on investment projects in energy infrastructure in the european community is an important instrument for promoting an effective energy policy at european level.
i share the idea behind this proposal, namely the need to define a coherent and comprehensive framework for the development of investment in energy infrastructure in the community which will enable the commission to monitor the state of development of planned investment projects in the energy sector.
the implementation of investment projects in energy infrastructure is essential to the implementation of a liberalized and therefore competitive energy market.
to this end, i ask the commission to provide periodically, on the basis of the data collected, an analysis of the structural developments in the energy sector, with the aim of identifying the needs for improvement of the market and the obstacles to its optimal functioning.
now we have to tackle all the past deficits, to achieve better results from an environmental, social and economic aspect.
however, i bear in mind your compromise amendments on sustainability, over-capacity, small-scale fisheries, horizontal decentralisation, phasing-out of discards, new fisheries agreements and deployment in the fishing sector.
- we approve this regulation today, given the greater weight that the treaty of lisbon gives to parliament in defining energy policies.
it is certainly a good idea to pursue interinstitutional cooperation aimed at planning in an organic, rational and proactive way the eu's interventions in the design and construction of energy infrastructures: i am thinking of the possible benefits for ten-e planning and the launching of pilot projects for co2 storage, which are the future of energy.
the marguerite fund for infrastructure, energy and climate must be strengthened.
− the proposal is affected by the emergency situation in gas supplies which emerged in january 2009, when the commission identified the inadequacy of the union's energy infrastructure.
the european commission's intention, which parliament fully shared, was to have a constantly updated picture of the energy infrastructure system.
furthermore, regulation 736/96, which this proposal repeals, is no longer applied consistently and is inadequate to the recent developments in the energy sector.
finally, i would like to emphasise that i voted against amendment no 81 (which was intended to include the whole nuclear energy chain among the infrastructures covered by the regulation), since there are already provisions governing these matters in the euratom treaty.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, italy has recently suffered another environmental disaster.
the court of justice of luxembourg has also recently condemned italy for the danger to public health posed by illegal waste disposal and for its failure to control the collection of waste in campania.
it's a continuous environmental disaster.
i ask the commission what it intends to do to bring the italian government up to the standards of the european union directives, particularly in view of the ruling of the court of justice the other day, which severely condemned italy for failing to dispose of waste in campania: the city of naples has been exposed to public ridicule for many weeks and for many months around the world.
the principle of 'think small first' is correct, which states that it is not only necessary but also appropriate to take care of the small in order to promote their existence in the business environment.
i am voting in favour of this because an anti-competitive environment encourages the abuse of dominant positions to the detriment of smes and it is therefore essential that europe should work towards greater product guarantee and protection.
i think that is the effort we must make in the next period, when we are dealing with the sustainable future of transport, with the revision of the tens, with the revision of freight transport, which is already under way in our committee, and, last but not least, with this revision, which we must take in hand and make sure that we reverse the course of what has happened so far.
the chapter on cooperation with the east and the black sea regions deals with the security of supply and the european union's energy dependence.
for this cooperation policy to be effective and reach those who really need it, it is essential to promote good local governance, without which there would be inefficiency, corruption, waste of resources and poor results.
so when the commission is looking to do things on trade, on climate change, on energy security across the world, the external action service can be its tool as well, directly linking the work of the commission to what happens on the ground.
many in the past have ignored the waste that american banks were placing on the world market, resorting to unnecessary formalities, even within the union.
mr president, we abstained, but the main reason is that i am against the clear intention of the european union and the commission to introduce a tax, as is shown by commissioner šemeta's recent statements to european voice, that he is about to introduce a minimum tax on emissions.
we want to say firmly to the commission and the council that the european union, which has raised the flag of the fight against atmospheric emissions and the climate challenge before the world, has today a duty of consistency if it does not want to lose credibility.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the debate on the european union's energy choices, there is one certainty: the most important, cheapest and most sustainable energy source available to us is energy saved.
for natural, historical, cultural and economic reasons, mountain regions are a model for reducing energy consumption, compatible with the needs of modern life, and lend themselves to large-scale experimentation with the use of low-carbon renewable energy sources.
in addition, there is a long history of experience in energy-efficient building techniques in mountain areas.
houses have been built that are completely self-sufficient in both electricity and heating and that even provide more energy than they use, using advanced technology, of course.
the mountains are often pilot areas, so they are the ideal setting for experimenting with better use of biomass, solar, geothermal, heat pumps and, above all, renewing energy distribution systems.
commissioner, the mountain is full of energy, clean energy: just take it.
we therefore ask the commission to involve mountain regions in its strategy, to study their experience and to recognise their right to fair compensation for all the renewable energy already supplied by these regions.
article 174 of the lisbon treaty recognises the role of mountains: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and we are therefore urgently awaiting an initiative from the commission to implement this article and to implement a european policy on mountains, including in the energy field.
i therefore call on the commission to follow the recommendations of the durnwalder report in the committee of the regions and to integrate the energy problems and the productive capacity of mountain regions in terms of renewable energy and passive construction in the evaluation of european territories.
mountains, which account for 40% of europe's territory and 90 million inhabitants, have hitherto been seen as disadvantaged areas: by implementing innovative and coherent energy policies, these regions can overcome this handicap and provide a key stimulus to achieve the objectives set out in the 20-20-20 strategy, demonstrating that energy self-sufficiency is possible, at acceptable costs, if there is a firm political will.
and it's also a serious matter that the public interacts with the private, because the public has to learn to act in a corporate way and in a sustainable policy.
but at the same time, mr president, we must act on several fronts and first of all review all the development and spatial planning plans and update them to take account of the environmental impact, including the assessment of the effects on the territory.
if we are calling in the resolution for the commitment of substantial sums to repair the damage, we must shift our attention and our action to investments and initiatives to protect the land, reforestation and protection of vegetation, knowing that these represent a reduction in the cost of repairing environmental damage.
in situations like these, with extensive destruction of buildings and infrastructure and thousands of deaths, it is important to coordinate civil protection and rescue authorities ever better to avoid overlapping interventions and waste of resources.
i just wanted to inform the president - i have already done so by letter - that the special committee on the financial crisis has unlawfully excluded the expert, the well-known demographer professor bourcier de carbon, without any justification, calling him an inappropriate person.
the first is that we are adjusting to the post-lisbon treaty environment.
but it is also a strong priority for the 2020 strategy: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good example of the need to combat unemployment, climate change and, above all, the need to give real and concrete effect to this new strategy for the future, by providing it with adequate resources, without compromises and without cuts.
this would support respect for the environment and the landscape and create, where possible, a tourism and food and wine economy linked to the various regional differences in culture and history of the european union.
the gravity of the situation has been described in a timely manner, and now we must concentrate on the therapy, and the first point of this therapy must be european economic governance, without which the economic system will not grow and the debt will become less and less sustainable.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to european legislation which has set strict rules for the quality of agricultural products, the health of citizens, environmental sustainability and the specificity of crops, we can now proudly say that european agriculture is a model that is unrivalled in the world.
companies cannot compete with the social and environmental dumping strategies of some emerging economies such as china, where labour costs are very low, social protection and related costs are lacking, and environmental standards are high.
i therefore ask you to include in the next legislative programme of the commission a proposal for a framework programme to support the development and safeguard of mountain areas and to exploit all the possibilities for the use of renewable energy that the mountains offer.
decent work, i had already spoken about in my political guidelines, as well as the existence of a real industrial policy for europe, not the old industrial policy, but a policy that aims to provide europe with a sustainable industry, a more modern policy, more oriented towards sustainability.
i would also remind you that the european union is the leading investor in latin america and the leading donor of development aid, with an investment forecast of eur 3 billion for the period 2007-2013. finally, mr president, i would like to mention the issue of climate change, which has recently been discussed in the committees responsible with the adoption of important reports, and to repeat here a part of this resolution which i fully support.
we are therefore calling for dialogue and cooperation with latin america on the fight against climate change in order to accelerate the achievement of the copenhagen objectives, and cooperation with the major developing countries is essential for the achievement of the climate objectives that europe has set itself.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in kyrgyzstan is very important for the stability of central asia, a region in which europe has particular interests in the supply of raw materials and energy.
the european parliament is following with concern the political crisis in this country, which has a crucial geo-strategic position not only for russia and the united states, but also because the eu has an interest in the stability of central asia, its political and economic development and interregional cooperation, also in view of the importance of central asia for our energy supply and economic and trade partnership.
i accept that this is a very important issue, not least because it links to the other important issue i wanted to raise before i mention visas, which is climate change.
we were interested that, in the speech from the throne on 3 march, the canadian government stated that it fully supports the copenhagen climate change accord.
that is significant, and what we want to do in the context of the summit is to encourage and urge canada to be ambitious, notably in increasing its mitigation target for 2020. the international carbon market is key in shifting investment towards a low-carbon economy, and part of what we are able to do in our bilateral relationship is to push forward on those strategic questions of investment, of green technology and of collaboration, in trying to support all the measures we need to take to mitigate the problems of climate change.
i assure you that in our areas, in our regions, we are witnessing a phenomenon of abandonment of the fields, here we are talking about combating climate change, desertification, and for us desertification is substantiated by the weeds that grow where previously vegetables and fruit were grown, where there are olive groves that are no longer tended, land that is no longer ploughed.
i therefore hope that these measures will be adopted as soon as possible within a wider framework of support for small and mediumsized enterprises which need to operate in a more favourable economic and fiscal environment.
the commission must not overlook the fact that the recovery of the lessfavoured areas will help farms affected by the great and serious crisis of this period and the maintenance of the environment in good condition.
in this way we could recover and encourage the economic development of agriculture in all those areas which have the potential to grow and produce market-driven products, such as the agricultural production of local foodstuffs and the protection of the landscape and the environment.
it is important to focus on the deployment of broadband and the application of digital technologies in key market sectors such as energy, transport and health.
much progress has already been made to reduce co2 emissions from cars, and i hope that innovations will soon make electric cars affordable transport for the general public.
new technologies need to be supported, especially when the challenge is to have a low-carbon economy.
however, any facilitation should not penalise the traditional car system, which has done and is doing a lot for sustainable mobility.
we are on the right track, but the times are tough for innovation for the environment and for jobs.
i also leave out the environmental issues, the electric car, the employment problems.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, last april the commission adopted the communication on 'clean and energy-efficient vehicles', or the european strategy to encourage the development and deployment of 'clean and efficient vehicles' with low carbon and pollutant emissions.
it is not just about networking in research and health, but also in education, nutrition, communication and the environment.
they are also very important not only for what they represent but also for the contribution they can make and the significant and essential role they can play in trying to achieve that transition of our economy towards an economy which is still developed but which emits less and emits less carbon and therefore is less polluting for our future and for the future of the new generations, and which can, in short, constitute, not in words but in concrete deeds, the changes which can lead to the way of producing, the way of living, of moving and of consuming in our reality, to that industrial revolution which for many will characterize the very future of social and economic life, not only in our continent but in the whole world.
first, by changing the sector itself: the report wants to show how this industry can first look inward, to see how you can make communication devices, microelectronics and so on, consuming less energy, that is, being more efficient inwardly.
then they can make a very important contribution in the large sectors, housing and transport, two sectors - i repeat the commission's data - where increased efficiency, according to the european directives and the target data, even from 20/20/20, can lead to a reduction, since today transport consumes 26% of energy in europe, 40% is consumed in homes for heating and cooling, depending on the season, and these emissions are also very high and can lead to very significant efficiency ratios.
i am thinking of the entire banking sector, the public administration's reporting sector, the entire e-government and all the services, in essence, that can see, by applying these technologies, savings in carbon emissions but also savings in time, with the consequent improvement in the quality of life of citizens and the quality of social life.
the analysis and meetings held in recent months have led us to give priority to two needs: on the one hand, it is urgent to give member states greater responsibility for detecting fraud and irregularities, and for sharing the information needed to combat fraud, waste and distortion in spending and revenue collection.
we must avoid any form of exploitation in this respect: the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has recently launched a new initiative to combat pollution.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, climate change is a real threat which we must be prepared to face, despite the differentiated impact it will have on our territories.
we have called for climate diplomacy and climate justice in the past: now we have to build them, speaking with one voice.
i am convinced that the european union must maintain a leading position in the fight against climate change and that any delay in taking action will increase the environmental, social and economic costs immeasurably.
first of all, we must recognise the central role of local and regional authorities and the need to coordinate with them the ecological and economic innovation facilitated by technological progress.
a systemic approach, including renewable energy, will be needed for adaptation to be possible.
mr president, we are about to ban cyanide extraction techniques because - as my colleagues said a short while ago - they have caused and are causing serious environmental damage and serious health risks to people and animals.
our vote was intended to express the clear will of the italian delegation to the alde group of the italian values committee not to negotiate fundamental rights such as the health of citizens and the natural environment, by subjecting them to the economic interests of a few plant manufacturers.
in this connection, i would like to say that since these are gold mining plants and certainly not potatoes, the companies that own them could well allocate adequate economic and financial resources to research into technologies compatible with the environment and the protection of health.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and in particular mr peterle, the rapporteur, on the work they have done.
our people have given us their trust and deserve not to be unprepared for the effects of climate change in our regions, in our lands which live mainly on agriculture, fishing and tourism, and which are largely made up of the weakest communities and social groups.
obviously it's very difficult to talk in this confusion, but i'll conclude: i welcome the implementation of the solidarity fund instrument, of which i am the rapporteur for the epp, as further support for a timely and effective response to the effects of climate change.
− the political crisis in kyrgyzstan is yet another episode of destabilisation in central asia, an area which we know is crucial for europe given the importance of the issue of energy and raw materials supply, and for the usa and russia given the country's strategic position.
urban areas today have the task of making transport environmentally sustainable (co2, air pollution, noise), competitive (congestion) and social (demographic change, inclusion, health).
meeting this challenge is also essential for the success of the eu's global strategy to combat climate change, achieve the 20-20-20 target and promote cohesion.
− the importance of new information and communication technologies (ict) is due to their crucial role in triggering a real revolution in the world of science, not only bringing about the knowledge society but also making a sustainable approach to the use of natural resources accessible.
in the light of these considerations, in the specific case of new techniques for energy efficiency, it cannot be ignored that icts are an important resource to ensure that progress goes hand in hand with respect for the planet, ensuring that the cost-effectiveness of savings can benefit both the private and the industrial sphere.
the energy saving policy will determine the sustainability of the european social model, which is why i have decided to vote in favour of the report.
− the european union has for some years now been setting itself important targets in terms of energy saving and reducing carbon emissions.
the information and communication technologies (ict) sector is undoubtedly a means of improving the energy efficiency of individual member states.
ict can help to control and manage energy consumption, provide new applications and technologies to improve the use of natural resources and cleaner production and industrial processes.
the large-scale public consultation launched by the european commission has clarified how icts can contribute to energy efficiency.
the european commission has calculated that ict-based systems are capable of reducing energy consumption in buildings - estimated at around 40% of total european energy consumption - by up to 17% and carbon emissions in transport by up to 27%.
an urban organisation with the help of ict can substantially reduce its energy impact.
− the european union has reaffirmed its commitment to reduce carbon emissions by 20% by 2020. it will be difficult to maintain this commitment without exploiting the full potential of icts.
ict can in fact reduce co2 emissions considerably.
ict is responsible for 1.75% of carbon emissions in the services sector in europe and produces 0.25% of emissions related to the production of ict-based equipment and consumer electronics.
the remaining 98% of emissions come from other sectors of the economy and society.
it is therefore desirable to harmonise the methods of measuring and quantifying energy performance in order to have data to develop innovative energy saving strategies and to avoid the phenomenon of 'green misinformation'.
for these reasons, i reiterate my full support for this strategy which combines adequate economic/industrial development with an eco-sustainable strategy.
− the european commission's white paper on adaptation to climate change contains a number of issues on which it is and will be necessary to focus to limit this threat linked to global warming.
- i have expressed my support for the whole of the resolution on the commission's white paper entitled 'adaptation to climate change: towards a european framework for action' as i believe it is of particular interest to europe as a whole and to italy in particular because of its geo-climatic peculiarities.
at the same time, it outlines an overall strategic approach to increase the eu's capacity to respond to the impacts of climate change.
the measures also cover public housing only in respect of the complementary project areas and the renovation and energy improvement of buildings.
in addition to stimulating national economies, the eu adopted a decision on the european economic recovery plan, which envisages an important role for the eib, especially in increasing finance for smes, renewable energy sources and clean transport.
the solution of political, economic and social problems can make the environment peaceful, less prone to inter-ethnic tensions and capable of rejecting the violence that we have seen tragically frequent in the last decade.
i believe that the condolences must be accompanied by indignation, solidarity with the families, closeness to the wounded, rejection of all forms of terrorism, but also by renewed action by europe alongside that of the national states, so that the peace mission can be even more effective and take place in a more secure environment.
i have just returned from a visit to greece on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, and one of the reasons for the greek structural crisis is certainly the waste of public money, a situation which is also occurring in italy: italy is corrupt, as it is becoming clear these days; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat corruption, including the illegal management of public funds, the relationship between a section of politicians and a section of businessmen, and organized white-collar crime.
we have proposed two different labelling systems in this case: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a regulation on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
eighteen years ago, the university of barcelona did a study in which it said that textiles would disappear from europe by the year 2000. it's 2010 and this dire prophecy hasn't come true, it hasn't come true for one simple reason: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the proposals which have been put forward by the rapporteur, mr von wogau, and which have been approved by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
but it's also about knowing how socially sustainable what we buy is.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the outermost regions are areas with socioeconomic and structural characteristics, due to their great distance from markets, their insularity, their small size, their difficult topography and climate and their economic dependence on certain products.
a fair and realistic immigration policy, mr president, necessarily implies the adoption of a common european asylum system and must also provide for an effective, solid and sustainable resettlement programme.
so, as regards the ţicău report, i voted in favour of the common position for updating the directive on energy efficiency in the building sector, because the objective is to have all newly built buildings with a zero energy budget by the end of 2020, and this must be pursued vigorously by the european institutions.
there is a common commitment on the part of europe, a strong conviction that in the near future we will not have to produce more energy but use it better.
energy saving and energy efficiency are indeed a source of energy production, we do not have to wait ten years to move in this direction, member states should commit themselves immediately to achieving energy efficiency targets using those financial resources currently allocated to producing more energy.
i am particularly reminded of the vicious launch of the nuclear programme in italy, which has damaged and endangered the health of citizens and the environment, with a huge expenditure of public resources and the production of energy in no less than 20 years' time that we would not need if we were to invest the same resources in energy efficiency right away.
green investments, not radioactive waste for our children!
i think it is essential to refer to the use of public procurement as a tool to encourage sustainable development pathways through the introduction of environmental and social criteria in calls for tender.
− while voting in favour of this report is a due act, as the entry into force of the lisbon treaty has required some adjustments to the legal basis and delegated acts, i would like to stress the importance of energy efficiency in the field of buildings in achieving the eu's 2020 target of a 20% reduction in energy consumption and co2 emissions and a 20% increase in energy production from renewable sources.
in urban centres, energy efficiency and emission reduction targets depend primarily on improving the energy efficiency of existing buildings and those under construction.
i am thinking in particular of the enormous work of energy recovery in existing buildings such as public housing, whose energy renewal (which would help households to reduce their energy bills) will require a considerable economic commitment on the part of the municipalities.
− i support the recommendation to improve the energy performance of buildings.
energy efficiency means not only energy savings, but also reduction of co2 and greenhouse gas emissions.
to achieve this, energy dissipation in buildings, which has increased due to technology shifting energy costs from construction to maintenance, should be limited.
the major projects are concentrated in the temperate countries, where the spread of these technologies already makes it possible to envisage "sustainable cities" in the near future.
although the problem of heat dissipation is less relevant in these areas, the buildings do not have a greater environmental sustainability.
the increasing use of air conditioning systems, which are becoming more and more common in homes, is a major source of energy consumption.
the labels will enable consumers to make informed choices about purchasing products, including on the basis of ethical considerations such as health, environmental impact, human rights, and the conditions and wages of workers employed in the manufacture of textile products.
the granting of the mfa takes place at a time when the eu is also involved in mobilising funding to reform the ukrainian energy sector.
the impact of climatic and environmental factors, which are by their nature difficult to predict, and which, as a result of the global changes taking place, are forcing the agricultural world to face new and difficult challenges, should not be underestimated.
the commission is also proposing that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, increasing the availability of organs, improving their accessibility and safety, raising public awareness, is what the committee on the environment and health of the european parliament has called for in order to shorten waiting lists for transplants.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the recast directive on the labelling of energy products is to extend the scope of the information to be included on the label to all products which affect energy consumption and not just household appliances.
the directive is part of the energy efficiency action plan and also provides for incentive and public procurement initiatives: it will therefore be at the heart of an integrated and environmentally sustainable product policy.
the energy efficiency class will also be included in all advertising containing information on energy consumption or on the price of products.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the energy labelling directive plays a crucial role in achieving the community's target of reducing energy consumption by 20% by 2020. it is a major added value for both the market and consumers.
in fact, the obligation to refer to the energy label in advertisements will put an end to the disinformation of final consumers, providing them with all the information they need to make fully informed choices.
the task of those who, like the european union, are now dealing with the figures we are discussing, is to be strict in the monitoring of the projects supported and to fight against waste.
without proposals on growth - i am thinking of fiscal uniformity, which mario monti is talking about, i am thinking of the resources to invest, the eurobonds to be made available, and i am thinking of the instruments of cohesion, because cohesion is a very important factor in competitiveness - we will hardly be able to create the positive climate that is indispensable, especially these days!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ten years after the launch of the lisbon strategy and on the eve of the europe 2020 strategy, in the midst of an economic but also a social and employment crisis, we know that we cannot get out of this crisis, we cannot lay the foundations for new sustainable growth, a new social cohesion - as you said - unless we strengthen the european union's mechanisms and instruments to support investment in the knowledge triangle policies: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of education, training and research.
favouring small and medium-sized enterprises, favouring emerging sectors such as digital and sustainable energy, and of course the infrastructure system.
the current economic crisis has hit them particularly hard, and even before that they were having difficulty accessing the world of work and building a sustainable future.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the euro-mediterranean region is a strategic area of european union policy: we cannot tackle fundamental issues such as the environment, religious values, culture, infrastructure, agriculture, energy, security and migration flows without the responsible participation of third countries bordering the mediterranean.
on the other hand, similar products on both sides of the mediterranean, especially agricultural products, must be strongly protected in order to ensure sustainable development and a regulatory framework that is as homogeneous as possible.
i hope that the meeting will strengthen initiatives such as solar energy for peace and desertec, which are important tools for creating an interdependent regional energy market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it must be a political priority for the european parliament to contribute to the full success of the next barcelona summit, after two years of stalemate since the paris conference in 2008. many of the objectives are still being mentioned today, from the fight against illegal immigration to the fight against human rights violations, but there is also an important economic aspect: the mediterranean offers enormous potential for renewable energy.
since its establishment in naples in 2003, the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly has been coordinating and democratically monitoring the implementation of these projects, which address the various regional challenges: marine pollution, transport, renewable energy, education, small and medium-sized enterprises and civil protection.
but the challenges to be faced are many and include energy, economic and political issues, especially security, as in the case of georgia, the nagorno-karabakh issue and the tensions between turkey and armenia.
the development of relations between the european union and these three countries will be much more effective if a climate of mutual cooperation is established between armenia, georgia and azerbaijan, in compliance with the principle of territorial integrity and the un resolutions which form the basis for the settlement of the unresolved conflicts in the area.
- mr president, the world economic and financial crisis is having a worrying effect on the sustainability of national budgets, but the report to the house contains passages which do not allow me to vote in favour.
- mr president, by voting in favour of the peillon report we all recognised that the mediterranean basin is an area of crucial importance and that, in a multipolar and interdependent world, large integrated regional bodies such as the mediterranean will be better able to respond to social, cultural, economic, environmental, demographic, political and security challenges.
in a climate of civil war such as that which is brewing in thailand, but in a climate in which the return to democracy through free elections, first negotiated, first desired, now a moment put in place, must pass through a fundamental step, which is that of the awareness of the closeness of the international community to the thai people and its return to a complete democracy.
the margins available for commitment appropriations are 1.2 billion, so they are very small, but what is even more delicate is that 70% of them are covered by the second heading, the heading which contains agricultural policy, the conservation and management of natural resources and therefore the fight against climate change.
but it is also important to keep the fight against climate change at the centre.
to this we must add the damage caused by climate change, which only adds to the problems that were being tried to control.
the development of an efficient and sustainable european transport system requires a revival of rail freight transport, through coordinated action between member states and cooperation between rail infrastructure managers to develop intermodality, market opening and the management of freight and passenger traffic.
in view of this, i consider the proposal unacceptable and contrary to one of its legal bases, article 153 of the treaty, because it does not improve the working environment and does not protect the safety and health of workers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at the 2000 millennium summit, the richest countries, including the countries of the european union, renewed their commitment to achieving a number of specific objectives by 2015: reducing hunger and poverty, improving education and health and protecting the environment in developing countries.
by defining the type of documentation to be provided, ensuring access to such documentation, especially in the case of 'large projects', and by creating a common model to be followed, waste and non-transparent management can be avoided.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
− innovations, whether in products or processes, whether radical or incremental, are today the driving force behind the competitiveness of modern business and economic systems that are committed to efficiency and sustainability.
- i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the current transformation of the european economy into a sustainable economy must lead to an increase in the competitiveness of our european enterprises.
in addition to the political objective of competitiveness, the european union must also be able to deal with other major social challenges, such as climate change or demographic change.
but we know that if we want to get out of the difficult economic and social phase, if we want to tackle the big issues of the environment, the development of cohesion policy and agriculture in the coming years, we need to invest more in europe and in the function of europe, and therefore in the essential function of europe, namely its budget.
it wants the european union to maintain its leadership in the climate change objectives expressed in the famous 20-20-20; it wants there to be no more than 10% early school leaving in the european union; it wants there to be more than 40% higher education in the european union; it wants 20 million people to be lifted out of poverty in the next few years.
we must stabilise and reform our economies to pursue sustainable growth and create the jobs europe badly needs.
this will put the world economy on a more sustainable and higher growth path as we come out of the crisis and for that it is essential that we tackle global imbalances, especially between the us and china.
i am thinking of bilateral trade, visa liberalization, the control of illegal immigration, the fight against terrorism and organised crime and climate change, as well as particularly urgent issues such as the iranian nuclear issue, the pacification of the caucasus and the middle east peace process.
the european union should abandon some of its prejudices and act more concretely and coherently in the energy field.
if we are to solve the problem of security of energy supply, we must recognize the added value of the south stream project, which provides a safe and abundant energy route for the economic recovery of the coming years.
finally, energy is of course a deep, significant, underlying issue where we need to retain a strong partnership with ukraine and a strong partnership with russia.
i think that the indication of fats, salts, sugars, saturated fats and energy intake, through a simple system of matching a value, would not give the consumer correct information.
in the case of the report by mrs lena ek, measures are proposed to coordinate scientific research activities for the understanding of the interactions of the baltic sea ecosystem which are now based on national programmes.
while an internal market in which all citizens and all businesses can make the best possible choices is important, it is also important to take account of the extraordinary heritage of food and wine culture that many parts of europe have in their tradition, in favour of health and economic, social and environmental sustainability.
that being said, the commission has, on several occasions, made a political appeal to member states because we recognise the importance of investment in rail infrastructure to promote a sustainable transport system in europe.
the commission should not be left alone in pushing for rail market opening and, ultimately, for the revitalisation of rail as a sustainable and efficient mode of transport.
i believe that europe would do well, especially at this time of economic or financial difficulties, to allocate and also to set up funds for investment to encourage and urge the private sector to invest and to make up for lost time, all of which, of course, is in the field of safety and the protection and preservation of the environment.
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the council, on 4 may last we voted unanimously in committee on the report on european aquaculture, which is essentially aimed at promoting the sustainable development of the sector.
i also think that a healthy and sustainable development, with its technological potential and its innovative component, is a very important asset for the european economy.
the report argues that the sector needs to be given a boost by establishing a specific fund for aquaculture, either autonomous or part of the european fisheries fund, which would support research and innovation, ensure a virtuous coexistence between sustainability and competitiveness, and maintain a high level of attention to employment issues.
i am referring to an integrated management plan for marine urban planning, which is essential to make freshwater, sub-coastal and offshore aquaculture compatible with tourist areas and those destined for other important economic activities, all within the framework of the rules on respect for environmental protection.
i am referring to the drafting of a regulation which takes account of the specificities of the various types of aquaculture farming, to be introduced also and above all with the aim of lowering production costs and ensuring respect for the environment.
as regards scientific research on feedingstuffs in particular, the emphasis will also have to be on discarding and processing waste to avoid the likely imbalances in the marine system resulting from a dangerous over-harvesting for fish feed.
last but not least, it is necessary to design facilities which are more respectful of the welfare of fish, of the density of farms and of the slaughter systems, all measures which should also be applied to organic products, which in fact result from a smaller production and a lower environmental impact.
aquaculture is an important sector for europe's economy, for employment, for genuine production, for healthy food and for the protection of the marine environment.
the introduction of strict and transparent criteria for product quality and traceability, ecological quality, feed control, etc.
this does not mean that those who are responsible for the environment are deprived of a role and a function, nor does it mean that those who are responsible for consumer affairs are deprived of a function, but it means that we have a europe which integrates these functions to the full.
biodiversity is truly a 'world heritage' and states and the entire international community must do everything possible to protect it.
its role in sustainable development is therefore as strategic as its role in the employment dynamics of the coastal and lake economies, considering that european aquaculture represents only 2% of the world's aquaculture, so that domestic needs and consumption must be covered annually by 2/3 by products imported from third countries.
he also referred to non-european interventions such as cooperation and development, international sanctions, nuclear and the environment.
transport is a sector that is crucial in many respects: for competitiveness, for the environment and for social and territorial cohesion.
i am also glad to see that the approach proposed by the commission in the communication ‘a sustainable future for transport’ is to a large extent shared by parliament.
finally, we acknowledge that innovative thinking is needed to preserve personal mobility, while reducing co2 emissions.
in thanking mr grosch again for his report, i can only promise that it will be duly taken into account in the preparation of our white paper on the future of sustainable transport.
sustainability is an environmental, economic, social and generational concept: i believe that this text has the merit of taking all these aspects into account, indicating a series of priorities which will have to be implemented in order to develop the transport sector, the upgrading and widespread use of intelligent transport systems, which means a better relationship between the vehicle, the infrastructure and the driver.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the 2020 targets for a sustainable future for urban transport and freight transport are ambitious: reduce the number of deaths and serious injuries in road traffic accidents by 40% between 2010 and 2020; to double the number of passengers in buses and rail vehicles in road transport by 2020; to reduce co2 emissions in road transport through appropriate innovation and by avoiding empty travel; to promote rail transport; to reduce the electricity consumption of railway vehicles; reducing environmental pollution in the field of aviation; to provide financial incentives for the creation of multimodal connections inland navigation platforms by increasing their number, also by 2020. the first step is still to integrate transport modes more closely, and the european union must take decisive action when problems arise in connection with the construction of major railway corridors or lines of communication.
i very much appreciate the call in the report, i think that in this respect we must encourage the use of good practices and the coordination of good practices, we must work towards better management of goods logistics in cities, towards more sustainable urban mobility, and i think that this report is a good starting point for continuing the good work.
the report on the future of transport aims to support and develop an efficient and sustainable transport system in europe.
that is why we must be careful not to ask too much, for example in the fight against climate change, of companies, otherwise, if they decide to close, there is no future for our workers.
i was very impressed by one of the first sentences of the explanatory statement, which i should like to quote: "waste management policy must be about transforming the eu into a recycling society".
i find contradictions in this, for example, that differentiation should be compulsory if it is the best option from an environmental and economic point of view, or that state investments should not be called into question if they are contrary to european directives.
in this spirit, as has already happened with the framework directive on waste, the european union will provide little more than a suggestion, and we forget that we have a duty to provide ambitious and decisive answers to the problem of waste, precisely because of the principle of subsidiarity behind which the european institutions too often hide.
let us set differentiated targets and enforce their achievement, let us take best practice, such as the 'zero waste' policies already implemented in some parts of the usa and make them binding on all member states!
i therefore believe that it is the european union's duty to provide a transport strategy that ensures efficiency and sustainability, as well as an appropriate financial framework to respond to the coming challenges in a timely manner.
this year, too, statistics show a growing demand for assistance on issues such as the environment, fundamental rights, justice, the single market and the development of european policies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote on the fernandes report, which i have shadowed for the s&d group, is a clear signal from this parliament that it is calling on the european commission to draw up a specific directive on biodegradable organic waste and in particular to introduce a mandatory separate collection system.
biodegradable organic waste, if well managed, can become a resource for the european union, for the production of biogas, a renewable energy that can be turned into biomethane, or used to generate basic electricity.
− on 19 february 2010, the commission published a proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the iczm protocol on integrated coastal zone management, or the protocol to the convention on the protection of the marine environment and the coastal region of the mediterranean, also known as the 'barcelona convention'.
like all eu member states bordering the mediterranean, the european union is a contracting party to the convention and as such promotes integrated coastal zone management, with particular regard to areas of ecological and landscape interest.
the iczm protocol has additional objectives, including the sustainable use of natural resources and the preservation of coastal ecosystems, and also includes provisions on economic activities related to tourism, fisheries and aquaculture.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety is pressing for parliament to approve the conclusion of the iczm protocol.
− favourable position as the protocol contains the general objectives and principles, which include the sustainable use of natural resources and the conservation of coastal ecosystems, and specific provisions concerning economic activities, including construction, tourism, fisheries, aquaculture and maritime activities.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union's action plan for the protection of the environment and the promotion of the environment.
in the evolution of the european union, the new macro-regional approach must aim to create the conditions for securing jobs for future generations, to promote territorial cohesion and to implement environmental protection measures, through territorial innovation and sustainable development; improving the mobility and accessibility of territories and promoting polycentric development.
finally, i share the need to invest more in urban mobility and more modern freight logistics to decongest urban areas and reduce polluting emissions.
the text adopted by the house is a step forward for europe in a particularly sensitive sector such as transport, the heart of the single market, on which the movement of people and goods depends and which ensures the territorial cohesion necessary for employment and economic development with a cost-effective impact on the environment.
the european economy and therefore employment depend on the sustainable future of transport, and the union will therefore have to commit itself to setting urgent targets for the member states in a short time, such as the timetable for the construction of small infrastructures, the lack of which prevents the smooth flow of goods and people, with serious damage to the economy and worsening pollution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the grosch report because i believe that the guidelines and the requests contained therein are balanced and aim at a sustainable development of transport, which on the one hand supports a strategic sector for economic growth and for europe itself and on the other takes account of respect for the environment.
convenience, quality of public services, better planning of long-term infrastructure and technical interoperability investments and support for technological innovation, research, energy efficiency, clean technologies and safety are crucial factors which i hope the commission will take into account in drawing up the next white paper.
the proposal is the basis for the preparation of the commission's white paper with particular regard to environmental protection.
we must balance the needs of environmental protection with the current economic crisis we are experiencing.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because i believe that efficient and sustainable management of organic waste is a top priority for the eu, also in the light of the estimates that show the annual production of organic waste in the union between 76.5 and 102 million tonnes for food and gardening waste and 37 million tonnes for food and drink waste.
the implementation of organic waste management techniques aimed at avoiding landfilling appears not only to be a responsible gesture towards the environment and communities, but also a strategic investment to strengthen a potential new pool of employment resources.
biodegradable organic waste biodegradable garden, kitchen and food waste represents about one third of urban waste and has a potentially significant impact on the environment.
when they are landfilled, they emit methane, a greenhouse gas 23 times more potent than carbon dioxide and one of the main drivers of climate change.
while waste management in the european union is governed by a wide body of legislation, there is scope for further improvements in the area of biodegradable organic waste, especially as this waste offers the possibility of being recycled and used as a source of renewable energy.
in this sense, a specific directive on the management of organic waste would be a crucial point for the implementation of the principles deriving from the framework directive on waste and from other directives on waste management in general.
the only reservation i have is that the directive must be flexible enough to be applied locally, so that the best solution can be chosen from an environmental and economic point of view.
− our position on the commission's green paper on the management of biodegradable organic waste is favourable.
the introduction of separate collection systems, the development of compost standards, guidance for the prevention of organic waste, the application of the life cycle concept and waste assessment are the starting points for greater efficiency and savings, calling for mandatory separate collection for all eu states except where this is not economically and environmentally feasible.
the new multiannual programme 2014-2020 must take due account of this opportunity, which at the same time represents a serious prospect of sustainable development.
the authorities which should be activated to this end must develop intervention strategies consistent with the sustainable growth of the european union and even more vigilance, in order to prevent the possible collapse of the system, without thereby hindering healthy entrepreneurship.
the committee on the environment has approved the amendment proposed by my group that such food must comply with the safety requirements in force in the european union.
we are at the threshold of an agreement on industrial emissions that will bring european union action to reduce pollution from the largest industrial sources into line with ambitious environmental objectives.
at the same time, it will provide opportunities for eco-innovation and strengthen sustainable production methods in important sectors of our economy.
i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mr holger krahmer, as well as the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, for the excellent work carried out on the proposal for a directive on industrial emissions.
this directive represents a significant step forward in the control of industrial pollution in the european union.
we presently find ourselves in a situation where industrial pollution accounts for over 80% of emissions of sulphur dioxide, over 40% of dust and over 30% of nitrogen oxides.
it is therefore very clear that the status quo is insufficient, not only in terms of protection of the environment, but also in terms of distortion of competition.
action here will ensure that industrial installations throughout the european union achieve high environmental standards and protect the health and well-being of our citizens.
the work of the european parliament, as i already mentioned, has been key in reaching an agreement that maintains the environmental integrity of the commission’s proposal and that, on a number of occasions in the institutional process, seemed unachievable.
by voting now to agree on this directive, parliament can demonstrate its true commitment to reducing pollution from industry.
it is enough to consider that this is a 1996 directive and that this work leads us to the fifth and most important amendment to the directive on industrial emissions.
but i am here tonight to say with conviction that i think we have achieved the best possible results in terms of protecting competition, protecting the environment, and european industrial and employment policy.
i really hope that the results of this reorganization will be, in the short term, a reduction in administrative burdens and, in the medium term, improved environmental performance and the strengthening of european industry.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that this is done.
today we are voting on a text which increases the attention of industry to the environment, but which at the same time does not have an excessive impact on the european industrial economy, especially at a time of crisis such as the one we are going through.
respect for the environment does not mean closing down european industrial plants, because these productions would simply be moved to third countries or emerging countries where environmental controls are non-existent.
china recently said that it has no intention of reducing the ratio of energy sources 80% coal and 20% oil indeed, it said that it wants to double its energy needs by 2020. closing down or moving companies from europe to other countries does not bring any benefits to the global environment, but it does lead to job losses and a worsening of the economic crisis.
this was confirmed by parliament at first reading and aimed at ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union's integrated approach to the problem of pollution allows us to be increasingly present institutionally and concretely in the control of industrial emissions.
the protection of the environment in which we live is essential to ensure the maximum livability of future generations.
the protection of the atmosphere, soil and water requires that all levels of the institutions devise strategies to control and reduce pollutant emissions, so as to reduce the environmental damage caused throughout the 20th century.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the challenge of preventing pollution from industrial emissions is a very topical problem, which is cross-cutting in many areas, including, of course, the protection of the environment, the health of citizens and the competitiveness of enterprises.
the directive in question, precisely in the context of a comprehensive approach to these important areas, pursued the objective of promoting the implementation of the best available techniques for controlling emissions by creating harmonised standards in the european union for the authorisation of industrial installations to protect the environment, which is often threatened and compromised by its emissions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the recent financial crisis has given rise to a great deal of debate on the urgent need for action to ensure the sustainability and stability of the financial system.
the main objective is to establish harmonised rules for the placing of novel foods on the community market in order to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests, while ensuring the transparency and effective functioning of the internal market and stimulating innovation in the agri-food sector.
in order to ensure a high level of protection of the health and welfare of humans, animals and the environment, parliament wanted to exclude foodstuffs obtained from cloned animals and their offspring.
the industrial emissions directive incorporates seven directives in order to simplify and amend existing legislation.
while some activities cannot be regulated at european level alone, there must be at least a minimum common denominator to avoid distortions of competition and the environment.
overall, i am satisfied with the report which strengthens environmental protection while reducing unnecessary administrative burdens.
− the objective of the 1996 directive on the integrated prevention and control of pollution (ippc) is to prevent and control emissions to air and soil from european industrial installations.
those that are economically and technically sound and that ensure maximum efficiency in achieving a high level of environmental protection: they are defined in the bat reference documents (brefs) developed following an exchange of information between the commission, member state authorities and stakeholders (the 'seville process').
i support the proposal to establish union-wide minimum requirements for emission limit values only for activities requiring eu intervention, according to the criteria of environmental impact and state of implementation of bat in the sector concerned.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the text aims to achieve a better degree of environmental protection without imposing an excessive burden on the undertaking.
- deforestation is a problem with serious implications for both carbon dioxide emissions and the continued loss of biodiversity.
- it is absolutely unacceptable that wood is imported into the european union knowing that it could have created serious environmental and social problems in the countries where it was cut.
as responsible people we cannot turn a blind eye to the true origin of the products we consume, especially when they cause damage to other societies and the ecosystem.
− deforestation is responsible for almost 20% of global carbon dioxide emissions and is a major cause of biodiversity loss; illegal logging also causes serious problems of human rights violations to dependent and indigenous populations.
i believe that the debate on this subject needs to be improved and broadened in the name of protecting the environment.
in particular, i fully agree with the passage in the document that real progress is needed in the fiscal and structural policies of individual member states to create a new, more robust economic governance framework, aimed at preventing similar crises in the future and fostering growth potential and sustainable macroeconomic rebalancing in the eu.
the negotiations will clearly have to take account of a number of issues, including the problem of fishing quotas, whaling and the supply and management of energy resources.
the economy is still held back by an uncertain legal framework, widespread illegality, a large underdeveloped sector and inadequate energy and transport infrastructure.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the environmental catastrophe which has been taking place in the gulf of mexico in recent weeks must be a warning to us all.
if such an event were to occur in a sea as enclosed as the mediterranean, which boasts a priceless and unique biodiversity in the world, the consequences would be unimaginable.
this means that in the event of a material leakage the oil operator is liable only in the event of fault or negligence and only in this case is he liable to pay for the damage caused to the environment.
the search for new sources of energy supply is necessary.
however, the risk to the ecosystem of our land and our seas must be limited by the control and the national authorities, and also by the community, which prevents unjustified and aggressive exploration and extraction of oil.
in this environment, as the high representative stressed, there are two priorities for our support: restoring trust among the main uzbek and kyrgyz ethnic groups and restoring the livelihoods and housing affected by the conflict.
that said, i think that the ecological conditionality linked to basic direct payments is also a good starting point for defining clearly the other measures that stimulate the production of public goods.
as regards the structures of small, medium and large farms, i agree, including small farms, that they must become more efficient, but we must be able to ensure that this change takes place in their specific environment, by making more use of a specific potential.
the financing of the new cap must be linked to results, so as to avoid waste and speculation of all kinds.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the challenges facing the european agricultural system in the years ahead will be enormous: meet a growing demand for food, using natural resources sustainably, while increasing environmental performance.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
if we want solutions to the pressing unemployment problem, we cannot let the cap drift and we must invest in the cap by ensuring adequate resources to bring about sustainable growth.
i had, as it were, prepared my speech with regard to, for example, the issue of the attention that must be paid to imported products following the same health standards, following the same regimes, but i see that it has been dealt with by others, and so to return to it is almost useless and a waste of time.
i believe that the five key elements outlined in the report, namely food security, sustainability, agriculture in europe, biodiversity and environmental protection and, finally, green growth, are a good starting point for ensuring a future cap that takes account of the continuing and rapid evolution, not only in the european context, but rather in the global context.
farmers produce goods for the benefit of society as a whole, but the common agricultural policy is not just about farmers, because there is a link between agriculture, the environment, biodiversity, climate change and the sustainable management of natural resources such as water and land.
with this vote, parliament put the spotlight on how to tackle new challenges such as the fight against climate change, food security, food quality, the competitiveness of businesses and farmers' incomes.
food safety is a consumer right which must be protected alongside the protection of 'second generation' public goods such as the environment, land use planning and animal welfare.
the importance of the sector, which employs some 30 million people, must be matched by strategic action for the period after 2013, starting with the strengthening of the common policy, an appropriate budgetary policy and maintaining the budget, taking into account the many beneficial effects of agriculture on the environment, health and climate change.
agriculture must play a greater role in the 2020 strategy and define actions for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
market instability increases with the increase in product safety and sustainability assurance because this puts eu producers at a competitive disadvantage compared to imports.
for the first time, parliament has therefore agreed on a way forward for a constructive dialogue on the content and priorities of the competitiveness of agri-food production and the sustainable development of rural areas.
unfortunately, we have seen a gradual decline in production in recent years, partly as a result of certain community measures to protect the marine ecosystem, such as the mediterranean regulation which aims to make fishing more sustainable, but which has actually brought the whole sector to its knees.
it is therefore important to strengthen fair, transparent and sustainable trade in the sector, including the need to introduce strict certification and labelling criteria in relation to the quality and traceability of fishery and aquaculture products.
we must put a stop to competition from low-cost imports from outside the eu, which often do not meet environmental, social, health and quality standards.
it is therefore a priority to ensure that imports from third countries meet the environmental, health, social and quality standards imposed by the eu, in order to avoid unfair competition from importing countries through lower-priced and lower-quality products.
i believe that a free trade agreement at a time of such great difficulty for multilateral relations, at a time of stagnation in the doha negotiations, should meet at least two major requirements: the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the community's action programme for the environment, which will be presented to the council in the near future.
the ratification process in korea is very slow, there is no guarantee of either environmental or social standards, and we nevertheless want to proceed very quickly with ratification.
finally, sixth: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the environmental performance of the european union.
i believe that not only is it necessary to reorganise the supply chain, with the agricultural producer at its centre, to whom a proper role must be given in connection with the innovation of new forms of agricultural product markets, but also to rationalise the food chain in order to reduce the environmental impact of food transport and to promote the knowledge and marketing of products with high territorial value.
the request, which i made together with my colleague mrs angelilli and which has been signed by many of my colleagues in this house, is based on the hope of saving a life: every day for sakineh could be her last, and we can't afford to waste any more time.
well, we help businesses and workers, with subsidies for new economic growth and with adequate wages and pensions, we create a european energy market.
boosting the fight against climate change?
sustainable development takes into account the needs of present generations, so as not to compromise the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.
the council decision, in addition to taking account of economic and ecological interests, provides for investment in human, social and innovation capital, with the aim of fostering conditions for competitiveness, welfare and social cohesion.
these activities are not limited to those directly linked to environmental protection, but also to those which contribute to the transition towards a sustainable economy by promoting energy saving and the use of renewable energy sources and by preventing the production of waste.
the development of new jobs in the green sectors, the use of renewable sources, the restoration of the ecosystem and energy saving are desirable and should be supported.
on the other hand, we cannot accept that the costs of the transition to sustainable places, especially in a time of crisis like this, should be borne by our companies.
sources of finance should be provided for companies wishing to convert wholly or partially to the environmentally sustainable sector.
the procedures for replacing the most polluting plants with those with a low environmental impact, which, as is often the case in italy, are opposed by the population, should also be simplified.
valuations that are more transparent if we look at the rights; the right not to be returned - on which we all agree - but also the right of children to live and study in a dignified environment.
the commission's original proposal has already been amended by the council to include some points of importance to parliament, such as gender equality, the protection of disabled people, the climate challenge, the development of entrepreneurship, stimulating job demand, the protection of the working poor.
that is why we are working on green jobs in order to facilitate this transition, and in order better to anticipate what jobs will accompany this inevitable structural change in the economy and to help people prepare better for a different structure in terms of energy production, energy use, the construction industry, automotive industry, agriculture and so on and so forth.
i, of course, was very happy to see that the french, german and british ministers of the environment so clearly spoke out in the middle of july, and i only hope that other member states will do the same.
the aim is not to put a brake on research but rather to encourage it along an ethically sustainable path.
i therefore believe that the efforts of the european union and the member states in implementing the europe 2020 objectives require a strong commitment to ensure that investments in sustainable economic growth also facilitate the creation of sustainable jobs.
there are many gaps, and there should be a push towards more advanced experimental methods that can replace animal testing: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
as a result, every effort was made to ensure a sustainable recovery, to strengthen the job-creating potential of european economies and to help people find work.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the jordan river is a great asset not only for the environment but also for agriculture and the economy of jordan, israel and the palestinian territories, and we cannot but be concerned about the state of degradation in which it is found.
this is a loss in terms of biodiversity, but above all in terms of access to water sources for local people.
the permanent training of people involved in this field, the call on all member states to adopt information campaigns for the elderly on dietary choices and the prevention of dehydration, the development of the so-called 'e-health' to reduce inefficiencies and waste are just some of the measures proposed in this resolution.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the conservation of biodiversity is an important and topical issue, but unfortunately it is underestimated by many.
many citizens in the 27 countries that make up europe do not understand the serious risk of biodiversity extinction, much less the repercussions this has on the climate, environment and economy of our countries.
i am sure that we must give full and effective implementation to existing european legislation, integrate funding sources into policies for the conservation of biodiversity in europe and simplify the rules for access to project funding at local level, i am talking about the life programme as quoted by mrs antonescu.
the principle of conservation of biodiversity must be introduced at all levels at local level!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, biodiversity is a measure of the variety of animal and plant species in the biosphere: it is the result of long evolutionary processes.
biodiversity is the life insurance of our planet, so its conservation must be pursued without limits, since it is a universal heritage that can offer immediate benefits to man, such as the maintenance of climate balances, both at local and planetary scales, as a source of study material that allows fundamental knowledge to be gained also to understand similar biological mechanisms in man, such as the sustainable use of flora and fauna for food and medicinal purposes.
its conservation is rightly one of the european objectives for the post-2010 year of biodiversity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, european gas production is steadily declining and energy demand will increase, especially in the near future, in conjunction with the economic recovery we all expect.
this regulation greatly improves coordination between the actors in the gas sector and will prevent the recurrence of situations such as the russian-ukrainian crisis, without, however, calling into question the prerogatives of each member state in the energy field.
trade policy is a crucial factor in this joint effort, even if something is wrong, if it is true that in the last five years the european trade deficit has tripled, a figure that is not sustainable for the european union and a figure that is perhaps inevitable, given the constant social and environmental dumping, the world's first for counterfeit medicines, the closed market for services, the unwillingness to participate in acta, the reflections on the chinese side of a closed policy also on human rights: the european union is also very concerned about the situation in tibet, which is suffocated by its cultural, spiritual and ethnic dimension, and the stubborn refusal to recognize taiwan's de facto sovereignty, the repression of freedom of expression in the media and the internet, and the shameful systematic use of the death penalty.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years many member states have suffered frequent disruptions in gas supplies, demonstrating that the european union's growing dependence on external energy supplies can be detrimental to the long-term economic and political interests of the member states.
i therefore fully share the view that energy security should be regarded as an essential element of the overall security of the european union and that ensuring the maintenance of gas supplies in the community, particularly during crisis situations, should be regarded as a strategic objective in its own right.
the ability to speak with one voice on common energy policy issues with energy suppliers is one of the key objectives.
a common energy policy is needed in the near future.
europe must establish direct cooperation with central asia, with the countries of the transcaucasus, and must explore tight gas and shale gas projects and alternative energy sources.
it is time for the european union to regulate energy security and supply clearly: the controversy last year showed how dependent we are on energy from third countries.
the regulation adopted in this house finally tackles this problem in an attempt to prevent further crises, making a major step forward in energy security.
member states are called upon to ensure adequate energy coverage for households, for protected customers, that is, for essential facilities and services.
the establishment of a customs union with the european union in 1996 has allowed economic relations to be deepened; the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which sets out the main priorities for the period 2000-2006. in recent times, a major step towards integration has been made with the adoption of the new turkish customs code and the introduction of the generalised system of preferences.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the report adopted today is a step in the right direction for the protection of biodiversity and ecosystems.
the concept of biodiversity is finally being linked to that of responsible management.
in the absence of the target of halting biodiversity loss by 2010, the 10-year delay should serve as a serious collective awareness-raising exercise by states and institutions.
the european union's environmental heritage, which ranges from the mediterranean scrub to coniferous forests, boasts a wealth of flora and fauna in terms of biodiversity that is virtually unrepeatable.
stopping the loss of this environmental heritage - and i conclude - is a duty we owe to ourselves and to future generations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of biodiversity and ecosystems and the fight to prevent their further deterioration are invaluable challenges for our society.
stopping biodiversity loss is not only our ethical duty, but also our political and economic duty: preserving our planet so that it can sustain future generations too!
in line with european environmental policy practice, directives provide the flexibility to adapt implementation measures to local realities.
i agree with the rapporteur that the often sectoral approach to biodiversity is leading to a deep fragmentation of the funding of measures to protect ecosystems through the eu budget.
while such fragmentation of funding can have a positive impact, allowing for different sources, the co-financing obligation and the menu-a-carte approach of agricultural and instrumental policies, among others, mean that only those member states that consciously choose to allocate resources to biodiversity actually invest funds for that purpose.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the vote we have taken today on the report is very detailed and contains a lot of information on how to improve the prevention of environmental disasters.
i believe that it is essential to have adequate and diversified gas infrastructure, especially in relation to regions which are isolated from energy sources.
the supply of gas and therefore of energy is a fundamental element for the european union, for its development and its well-being.
i am in favour of a common energy strategy to create a clear and sustainable energy system capable of strengthening the possibility of supply.
the common approach, however, must not mean a single partner for supply, as we have seen how the energy question plays on the chessboard of geopolitics and is capable of influencing relations between states.
this would avoid a new energy vulnerability for the eu and would reassert its geostrategic role in the world.
this is also the position of president buzek, who has promoted the meeting between the 27 national parliaments of the union and the european parliament on the creation of a european energy community.
we are all aware of the recent environmental disaster in pakistan, the enormous damage to the land, the loss of crops, the more than ten million displaced people and the thousands of deaths.
it is just beyond our south-eastern borders, it is part of the same defence alliance as most eu countries, and it gives us access to energy resources and raw materials, beyond the important direct trade with our countries.
− the protection of biodiversity and ecosystems is an emergency that we are ignoring, or rather not paying adequate attention to.
according to some studies, the loss of well-being resulting from the degradation of biodiversity is estimated at around eur 50 billion per year, but this is not primarily an economic issue but an ecological one.
the united nations has proclaimed 2010 the year of biodiversity, highlighting the international nature of this theme and its crucial importance especially in achieving the millennium development goals.
the eu has also worked to ensure that the protection of biodiversity is integrated into many community policies, including the adoption of the habitats directive, which also provides for the establishment of an ecological network of special protected areas called natura 2000. i believe that all member states must improve the management and respect of biodiversity, preserving landscapes and protected areas, maintaining and developing the continuity between protected areas, terrestrial, marine or agricultural areas of high natural value.
in addition, the eu should provide more funding for studies and new initiatives and pay more attention to ensuring compliance with all european regulations and directives, especially those concerning the conservation of biodiversity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mrs de lange's report because i believe that much can still be done to conserve biodiversity.
in particular, i fully share the passage in the report which states that 'a positive solution to the triple crisis of food security, biodiversity loss and climate change requires a coherent approach and a future eu biodiversity strategy that is fully integrated with strategies to combat poverty and hunger and mitigate and adapt to climate change'.
it is worth considering, however, that biodiversity is a perfect mechanism of cross-control between animal, plant and mineral components of nature.
it allows the preservation of those balances that facilitate food variety, prevent certain natural disasters, help fight climate change and excess carbon dioxide.
i am in favour of adopting this report because it is a first step towards moving from declarations of principle, on which there is of course almost unanimous agreement, to concrete action to safeguard biodiversity.
- i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because i believe that tackling the loss of biodiversity and the continuing degradation of ecosystems, through a sustainable development strategy, must be one of the priorities of the european union's legislative activity.
biodiversity is a fundamental asset for human existence on earth and for the well-being of future generations.
if the necessary measures are not taken to halt the loss of biodiversity caused by humans, according to all the data we have, by 2050 we will have an impoverishment of nature that will lead to irreversible damage.
the eu has set itself the minimum target of halting biodiversity loss by 2020 through a strategy that is coherent and integrated with poverty and hunger reduction and climate change mitigation strategies.
we also asked the commission to ensure that biodiversity is given greater prominence in other eu policies.
in addition to the well-known life programme, new instruments need to be identified which work in synergy with other policies in various fields such as fisheries, agriculture and the environment in general.
the need to conserve and preserve biological diversity from extinction is also at the heart of climate change adaptation policies, such as the global fight against hunger and support for food security.
parliament must therefore take a serious and decisive step forward, especially in the light of the failure to achieve the 2010 target of halting biodiversity loss, which has now been postponed to 2020 on the instructions of the council and the commission.
- the loss of biodiversity is occurring at alarming rates: the current global rate of species extinction around the world is much higher than the natural rate of extinction.
the objective of halting biodiversity loss is very important for climate change, considering that terrestrial and marine ecosystems absorb about half of the co2 emissions emitted by humans.
unfortunately, in my view, international and european initiatives and agreements to halt the loss of biodiversity have not produced much and european citizens do not seem to be sufficiently informed about this.
this year, new initiatives were proposed to halt the degradation of ecosystems and the commission presented four policy options, including the restoration of biodiversity worldwide.
i hope that a proposal for a new eu biodiversity strategy will be published by the end of 2010, including some legislative proposals.
the european council on the environment on 15 march agreed on a new headline target to halt the degradation of ecosystems in the eu by 2020.
in writing.
- we have seen a lot of media reports this summer, informing us of two environmental disasters that have hit two different countries, russia and pakistan.
while it is true that there are unforeseeable and uncontrollable natural disasters, it is also true that human activity sometimes contributes to worsening situations of environmental decline.
pollution, acid rain, industrial pollution, landslides caused by problems of urban and land use planning, the desertification of certain areas - these are just some of the consequences of our actions.
given that natural disasters undermine ecosystems and biodiversity, affect sustainable development and threaten social cohesion, the dissemination of good prevention practices and a better understanding of the local geographical, economic and social context is essential.
it is also important to develop a european risk and hazard mapping, to encourage the use of good and sustainable agricultural and industrial practices and to strengthen the links between the various early warning systems.
- while the text is positive, identifying the motto 'helping them at home' as the best way to support the world's poor, the measure goes further, calling for country-by-country tax reporting, additional funding to combat the effects of climate change, and a review of agricultural subsidy policies.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, i would like to thank the european parliament, and in particular the rapporteur, mrs klass, the non-attached rapporteurs and the members of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, for their considerable work.
the 330 amendments adopted by the committee on the environment and the overall compromise adopted last week are a testament to their commitment and interest in this matter.
on the thorny issue of derogations from the exclusion criteria, i note that the compromise amendment strikes a reasonable balance between the objective of ensuring a high level of protection of the environment and human health and the need to provide for some flexibility in the event that no alternative solution exists.
as regards the labelling of these articles, we support the general approach of imposing different rules depending on whether the articles have an internal or external effect, for example, whether there is intentional disposal of the product or whether it comes into contact with humans or the environment.
while the commission supports the objective of reducing the use of animal testing, it believes that this should not be done at the expense of a high level of protection of the environment and human health.
this simplification will lead to a reduction in costs and administrative burden for businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, without reducing the protection of the environment and human and animal health.
we are demanding transparency, we are demanding that the current owner of the grid, who is active in the energy industry, can no longer interfere in the operational activities of a subsidiary of the grid, and that the grid is open to anyone who wants to use it, that is, also to competitors in the gas and electricity markets.
this is not just true for the budget, it is also true for the energy market.
we have common interests in the environmental field, because an accident in eu waters can quickly have devastating consequences for the southern coasts of the sea or vice versa.
the mediterranean sea is indivisible in its environmental qualities.
improvements are possible in this area, notably by extending the spatial scope of existing environmental law to allow for better coverage of issues such as biodiversity and consequential damage.
the directive on the criminal protection of the environment will come into force at the end of this year.
the commission will present in a few weeks' time a communication on the safety of offshore oil and gas drilling, with measures such as those outlined above, to ensure the highest level of safety for european citizens and the environment.
the mountain also has a great opportunity for clean energy production, energy saving and quality agriculture with respect for the environment.
these, and particularly gdp, but not only, are the criteria which must inspire a strategy of support for mountain areas by the union, which are subject to poorer services, infrastructure problems and are particularly vulnerable because of the agricultural crisis and climate change.
the mountain, a place of life, a subject of study, must now also be a political laboratory, because it is an immense resource for the cultural potential, for clean energy, for quality agriculture, for the quality of life indispensable to guarantee greater well-being to urban populations.
that is why i support mr provera's initiative for the agricultural, environmental and cultural recovery of these territories.
i therefore ask the commission to take action as soon as possible to implement a mountain policy which will counteract the difficulties, the demographic decline and the abandonment of mountain areas, which will lead to environmental degradation.
but europe's new economic governance must consider not only the size of public debt but also its sustainability in the medium to long term.
private debt, the sustainability of social security systems are as important as public debt as such for the stability of public finances.
the new regulation will have to pay particular attention to three key areas: environmental protection, consumer safety and safe, practice-oriented application of the rules by producers.
a strategy that takes account of aspects such as the promotion of the economy and of structures, employment policy, the safeguarding of the natural heritage, civil protection, environmental and energy policy.
equal opportunities must be created between these territories and the rest of the european union; one of these could be to promote tourism in mountain regions in a sustainable way, thus creating an important livelihood for the inhabitants of these areas.
the madrid declaration of european ministers of 15 april 2010 also stresses the need for more effective coordination of measures implemented in the field of tourism policy and the promotion of a more innovative, sustainable and social tourism in europe.
the european union is already having enormous difficulties in competing with the production system of the people's republic of china, whose trade union, environmental and consumer protection standards are virtually non-existent.
madam president, the april 2010 disaster is one of the worst environmental disasters ever to have occurred on a global scale.
yet in italy - as denounced by lega ambiente - due to a misguided energy policy, there is an incredible increase in both requests and research permits granted by the ministry to identify and extract oil resources that would be enough to cover italy's energy needs for just over a year.
protecting our planet must be a priority, especially to ensure a sustainable environment for future generations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the cop 10 on biodiversity will be held in japan from 18 to 29 october, and it is important for parliament to know what the council intends to propose in order to protect and guarantee biodiversity.
madam president, in 2002 the representatives of governments around the world committed themselves to significantly reducing biodiversity loss by 2010. this objective, although it has been repeated and reiterated in various international fora, has unfortunately not been achieved.
without ambitious targets to be adopted immediately, biodiversity loss - as has been said many times - will cost europe €1.1 trillion by 2050, as the wwf also states.
so, as pointed out in the question by mrs striffler, the protection of biodiversity is an important element of the millennium development goals and the europe 2020 strategy.
fostering biodiversity is like raising the arrows of our bow in the fight against extreme poverty and hunger, by implementing environmental sustainability policies that keep our planet rich and fertile.
mr president, commissioner, the 10th international conference on biodiversity will open in japan on 18 october, and the european union is attending without having achieved the objective it set itself in 2001, namely to halt the loss of biodiversity by 2010. recent studies show that the natural heritage is seriously threatened, particularly the marine areas of the mediterranean countries.
the european union has taken important action to combat climate change, but it must do more to protect biodiversity: the commission has also proposed that the commission should increase the appropriations for the natura 2000 programme and take more decisive action to exercise the powers of control provided for in the treaty.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the future regional cohesion policy must be aligned with the priorities of the eu 2020 strategy, and thus aim at sustainable growth, social inclusion and employment.
new challenges such as demographic pressure in some areas, depopulation in others - particularly in mountain areas - and climate change need to be addressed through concrete action, enhancing local and regional participation.
these are the objectives of the european strategy for smart, inclusive and sustainable growth.
mr president, commissioner, there is no doubt that the structural funds have been one of the most effective instruments for shaping european policies and, above all, for ensuring the sustainability of the european economy.
i would like to thank all of you and remind you again and repeat and confirm: regional policy is an investment policy which must cover all regions, which must be considered in an integrated way, and therefore definitely a priority in relation to cities, but also because it is in cities that various policy areas are concentrated: energy waste, energy avoidance, energy use, transport, social problems - all factors which require a holistic approach.
i agree with everyone who stressed that this is a crucial financial instrument to support the europe 2020 strategy and its three objectives: it is smart, sustainable and it involves inclusive growth.
environmental protection does not mean denying the right of entrepreneurial initiative, but it does require a cautious approach, as commissioner oettinger has said, in cooperation with other third countries to ensure safety on our seas.
we must never forget, ladies and gentlemen, that if such a disaster were to occur in a sea as enclosed as the mediterranean, its inestimable wealth of biodiversity would be compromised to unimaginable levels, as my colleague mr iacolino has just pointed out.
the danish government's commitment to zero dependence on these energy sources by 2050 is in the news these days.
this decision will involve many difficult choices, but it must be an important reference for all future environmental policies in the european union.
i am convinced, however, that in the next activities of parliament there may be a raising of the bar of attention to realities in which infant mortality - i repeat - still has particularly wide and no longer sustainable limits.
the experience has shown that in offshore oil production, strict measures must be taken to ensure that the environment is adequately protected.
however, europe must remain competitive in this sector and continue to explore for gas to diversify its energy needs.
if oil were to leak, we would be faced with an environmental disaster that would be difficult to repair, with very serious consequences for the economy and the environment of many european countries.
i believe that we need to adopt appropriate regulatory measures to prevent the environmental disasters that have recently struck the united states from happening again in our seas.
indeed, if such events were to occur in the mediterranean sea, which is notoriously slow to change its water, it would be an environmental disaster with far-reaching consequences.
that is why i join the call to the commission to follow closely the investigations carried out by the american authorities, so that we can better define and implement actions which have a high level of precaution and ensure the protection of biodiversity in the marine and coastal environment.
the close connection between oil exploration and extraction activities and past and future environmental changes is proven and is the subject of constant scientific research.
to show in time what will happen in 2080 as a result of these activities can only serve as a warning to stop the timer of environmental disasters around the world, no one excluded, not even us.
the commission is also proposing that the eu should take a more active role in the fight against pollution and that the eu should be able to take action to combat it.
i would have preferred the environment committee to go further and ask for similar guarantees from other non-member european states such as norway, whose gdp is 90% linked to the extraction of oil from the sea.
in particular, the resolution rightly emphasises the need for urgent action to meet the objective of achieving a more substantial reduction in biodiversity loss, through the use of already available resources.
the report voted on in parliament today calls for the establishment of sustainable health systems, to be financed both through state resources and through international solidarity.
a favourable environment must be created by adopting a 2020 strategy for stable economic growth and job creation.
it is important to strengthen the potential of the structural funds in order to support those who may be excluded, optimising the outcomes of social policies and generating sustainable growth for the benefit of all.
the first concerns the problem of women's work, which was also tackled in this session from a modern and sustainable perspective in another dossier.
but we must never forget how important it is that we, as the first, set an example of sound and moderate management of our finances, avoiding as much waste as possible and perhaps even structural duplication, which our citizens would not understand and which would certainly not be to the advantage of the future of europe.
given that in the mediterranean regions a major cause is the presence of bare land as a result of forest fires and fires that are characteristic of the mediterranean territories, does the commissioner not think that it is appropriate to change the way agro-environmental premiums are calculated by introducing specific additional premiums for farms that undertake to develop and maintain practices that are environmentally friendly, but that are primarily aimed at preventing fires on farms and in rural areas?
that means of course that all the provisions about special types of gear that are very heavy for the environment have to be met.
the new parameters set by the approved report maintain contractual freedom in negotiation between private individuals, but impose limits (30 + 30 days); the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the opportunity to present a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
this policy choice by the european commission is in the right direction, the same one that mario monti pointed out in his report when he expressed the need to take action to make the business climate more favourable to small and mediumsized enterprises.
then the question would be how we deal with an issue like this and whether there is a need to tighten up the definition of hazardous waste.
therefore it is possible for hungary, if the government judges this a very high priority, to use structural funds or rural development funds for environmental monitoring for treatment facilities, for the rehabilitation of damaged infrastructures and the rehabilitation of agricultural land.
they can also be used for changing land use, because it may not be possible for the land i saw to be quickly rehabilitated for its conventional agricultural use, but it may be possible to use it for energy crops which do not need to meet the same test in terms of dangerous materials.
the directive does provide for incentives for research, and our environmental legislation encourages the transition to the best available technology.
we need to look beyond and think about the past, so that we can implement the structural changes that will make our small and medium-sized enterprises more competitive and able to cope with the increased pressure that will result from a globalised environment.
europe's new economic governance must consider not only the size of public debt but also its sustainability in the medium to long term.
private debt and the sustainability of social security systems are as important as public debt itself for the stability of public finances.
these and other factors convince me to support the requirement, if necessary, to leave member states wide margins of flexibility in setting the rules on leave, but only for reasons of economic sustainability, to cover the additional costs that arise from it.
this policy choice by the european commission is a step in the right direction, aimed at making the business climate more conducive to smes.
this requires the social sustainability of macroeconomic policies, the necessary reorientation of priorities and monetary policies, including the stability and growth pact, and all policies on competition, the internal market, the budget and taxation.
according to the imf, the priorities are to correct the remaining fragility of the financial sector; to ensure strong demand and employment growth; to maintain debt sustainability; to work towards a more balanced world growth; to address the challenges of large and volatile capital flows.
but we can say right now that there is an absolute need to identify rules for the surveillance of economic policies, rules which are not mechanistic but realistic and sustainable, capable of strengthening fiscal discipline and, ultimately, of improving european governance.
the budgetary results and benefits of major social and economic reforms, first and foremost pension reform, are not seen in the next financial year but after several years in the medium and long term, in the sustainability of public finances.
there is also the question of the priority areas for funding: education, health, environmental protection, the capacity of good governance or the development of small businesses?
in a way, it very much coincides with yesterday’s speech here by secretary-general ban ki-moon, when he clearly said that the eu and the united nations share responsibility in this world in the fight against poverty, the fight against climate change and the fight against nuclear proliferation.
by operating in this way, i believe that the aid to pakistan is shared and sustainable also in the long term, and that is what this country needs.
we must also make the most of the special features and the typical excellence of our countries, revive the european economy and ensure that workers' rights in social, environmental and production matters are respected.
there have been incidents like this in calabria for some time, perhaps due to the effects of climate change.
in the area of the integrated maritime policy, we must move beyond the goodwill phase and give new impetus to a strategy which will be a driving force for growth and development in the european union, filling the huge gaps in the prevention of environmental disasters, the fight against climate change and pollution.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the integrated maritime policy has a cross-cutting role: it takes into account a variety of aspects, from the environment to marine research.
the report sets out important guidelines for pursuing regulation that is conducive to innovation, stimulating business competitiveness and interoperability, ensuring product safety and environmental protection and removing barriers to trade.
− with this report, we welcome the integrated maritime policy package proposed in 2009 by the european commission, because we believe it represents an ambitious cross-sectoral strategy for economic development, a high level of employment and environmental protection of coastal regions and marine sectors.
the european parliament also intends to intensify research and development efforts in the use and application of renewable energy sources; the commission has also proposed to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: we therefore welcome the creation of the atlas of the seas and the maritime forum and propose the creation of a european-level marine research institute, with the emodnet data observation network becoming operational.
the report focuses on a few key points: the commission will also be supporting the development of a european maritime policy, including the establishment of appropriate maritime governance structures at national and regional level; coordinated and cross-border maritime spatial planning; maritime surveillance to protect the member states and the eu; safeguarding the marine environment; developing a strategy for sustainable coastal and island tourism; promoting the already leading european shipbuilding industry and maritime transport to achieve the ambitious goal of 'green shipping'.
communication and integration of the various sectors covered by maritime policy must and must be made to 'speak' for a whole range of reasons linked to efficiency, competitiveness and also to respect and protection of the marine environment.
too often, the rules on fisheries, tourism, transport and environmental protection in the sector have been developed separately and without taking into account the risks of unfair competition from third countries.
our seas must continue to be a growth engine, and for this reason i think it is essential that the development of an integrated maritime policy ensures greater coherence between the regulations governing the different maritime sectors, and at the same time safeguards the marine environment.
good governance in the countries receiving aid policy is essential to increase the effectiveness of intervention and to avoid the waste of valuable resources through corruption, incompetence and negligence.
to engage with the us on climate change, on sustainable energy, on the global market is a good place to start the discussion.
− mr president, let me first answer a number of specific questions which have been put, and start with climate change.
in the meantime, we can advance on concrete issues, such as fast-start finance, reduce emissions from deforestation, and facilitate adaptation to climate change for poor and developing countries.
the current european and international environment, characterised by globalisation of trade, technological developments and the emergence of new players on the world stage, calls for a strong relaunch of the single market, striking the right balance of protection between all the actors involved, namely businesses, consumers and workers.
it is the key to integration and sustainable growth in europe.
the initiative aims to be a concrete, effective and sustainable response to the main problems of our society.
i would like to stress how crucial our contribution has been in ensuring that the two partnerships to be launched after the pilot initiative on healthy ageing relate to smart cities, with the aim of supporting cutting-edge experiments in various european cities to achieve the 20-20-20 objectives, and non-energy raw materials, since a concrete response must be given to the big and difficult problems affecting society in this field.
we are talking today about an interim report on a successful programme for economic recovery in the energy sector.
we can report that in implementing the programme set out by the parliament and the council, we have taken 43 financing decisions to date - for gas projects, for electricity infrastructure projects, for offshore energy, for co2 capture, for storage - which means that approximately 98% of the total budget of eur 3.98 billion is being implemented 1:1 and the programme has therefore also had a high level of accuracy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind.
i also see in these pilot projects experimental possibilities for our activities in the field of energy efficiency, which will be a focus of my work over the next year.
i thank mrs van brempt very warmly, i thank all the debating members, i thank the belgian presidency of the council, because we have worked hard on these issues in the last few weeks and we have something to present today that will certainly give impetus to our energy efficiency issues.
these local partners can ensure optimal use of: public buildings, private buildings, combined heat and power, district heating networks, decentralised renewable energy sources, environmentally friendly urban transport, local infrastructures such as smart grids, efficient street lighting, smart metering systems.
in my view, the central element of the fund which will be set up later this year is that it can become a sort of virtuous pilot project for the future structuring of a wider energy fund to be appropriately included in the next financial perspective 2014-2020. this principle can be replicated in other areas, such as tens or etens.
we must not have what happened with the recovery plan and with the small and mediumsized enterprises that are still waiting for the 30 billion euro that this parliament and the commission decided on at the end of 2008.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank my colleague and rapporteur, mrs van brempt, for the excellent work she has done and for an agreement which finally allows us to free up important resources for the development of renewable energy and energy efficiency in the context of the challenge of green growth.
the programme contains priorities which the member states should take into account, particularly in order to achieve the objective of competitively modernising our energy infrastructure.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the present difficult economic and financial environment europe must continue to support projects in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy for a sustainable and socially competitive economy.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate action policy and to monitor the implementation of the union's climate action policy.
first question: how will we succeed in the field of energy efficiency?
i would argue that along the three targets - for co2, for renewable energy and for energy efficiency - the 20% increase in energy efficiency will be the most difficult and complex challenge.
in fact, we are now testing with this simple programme which projects are useful for building renovation, in the field of energy in general.
i hope that in two or three years' time, the first evaluation of these projects for the next budgetary period will be based on good and bad experiences in energy efficiency.
we see that the energy demand and consumption in public buildings, in private buildings with renovation possibilities, that is, with smart city ideas, can only be implemented by the eu towards the municipality, a direct contact where reality lives.
it is not about the 146 million euros, it is about the four-fold test of our partnership with the municipalities, with the eib and kfw, with the topic of energy efficiency at the local level and with a proof that we are at the right level for more budgetary resources at the european level.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in january 2009, in response to the economic and financial crisis, the european commission proposed to reallocate part of unused european funding to support projects in the energy sector.
in my view, the european energy recovery plan, which aims to finance initiatives and projects in the field of energy efficiency, energy saving and renewable energy by supporting the investments of european public authorities, particularly in urban areas, can make a real contribution to stimulating the recovery of the european economy and creating job opportunities for young people.
i welcome the energy efficiency measures in the building sector, which uses 40% of the eu's energy, and which would be a support for smes at both local and regional level.
such aid would also help develop promising energy efficiency initiatives at the level of local authorities, which have suffered a significant reduction in budgetary revenues as a result of the recent crisis.
for monogastric animals, on the other hand, there is no danger to human health and the environment, so we expect that this ban can be replaced in order to give more scope for higher energy diets for these animals.
not only has climate change affected prices, but speculation on international markets has also.
speculation and severe climate change have led to a sharp rise in the price of grain used as animal feed and to a subsequent rise in the price of meat.
this not only reduces the economic opportunities in the mountain area, but also changes the landscape and ultimately reduces biodiversity.
from an economic point of view, it has experienced significant growth and has important economic and trade relations with the european union, cooperating in the fields of research, science, technology, education, culture and the environment.
the visa liberalization for taiwan will strengthen our trade relations and foster closer cooperation in the fields of culture, education, environment and research, as well as promoting the growth of tourism in both directions.
the visa liberalisation for taiwan will strengthen trade relations between the island and the european union and foster closer cooperation in the fields of culture, education, environment and research, as well as promoting the growth of two-way tourism.
i voted in favour of this measure because i believe that the creation of an ad hoc fund to reduce energy dependence and to use renewable and local energy (even if it amounts to only eur 146 million) represents for my group in this parliament an important indication of the method to be followed for a more prudent use of the budget of the european union.
i am convinced that this financial instrument will be even more valuable in the light of the financial crisis, as it will be able to support businesses in their recovery and will be a pilot project for the establishment of a larger energy fund.
i also believe that this is a useful measure to enable projects to be carried out which can contribute to economic recovery and to the achievement of the energy objectives set for the fight against climate change.
the emphasis on energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy is a major step forward.
i also agree with the rule that the instrument should be limited to financing measures that have a rapid, quantifiable and substantial impact on economic recovery in the eu, improving energy security and reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
the amendment to the legislation on the european energy recovery plan will allow the funds available to be used to finance projects such as: renovation of public and private buildings to improve energy efficiency or switch to renewable energy; construction of renewable energy-based installations and their integration into electricity grids; 'green' urban public transport solutions such as electric and hydrogen vehicles; local infrastructure, including efficient street lighting, electricity storage and the provision of smart meters and grids.
− in a time of crisis such as the one we are experiencing, it is unacceptable to waste the resources that the eu had made available to support energy projects.
these funds will be able to create new jobs that contribute to the development of a competitive and sustainable economy.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote establishes a new and important fund to finance projects in the field of renewable energy and energy efficiency through innovative financial instruments.
the fund has two aims: the commission's proposal is to promote energy saving and environmental improvement on the one hand, and to give a new impetus to europe's economic recovery on the other.
the fund will finance energy initiatives and projects, adopting a different philosophy from the past, focusing no longer on the contribution to the lost fund, which has often proved to be unsuccessful, but on the return on investment.
this applies not only to the management of world economic relations but also to the more sensitive issues of foreign policy and environmental policy (with its implications for industrial and energy policy).
this value is the foundation on which the european institutions are built, the source of energy which enables the market to give the necessary impetus to a diverse and complex economy, the breath of our citizens who move, for study or work, to the cities of those places which were once places to be reached with a passport and perhaps a visa.
− the european union and the osce share the same principles and values in matters such as the promotion of human rights, conflict prevention, the development of democratisation, the protection of minorities and also more recent challenges such as climate change.
active ageing is a process of optimising people's chances of remaining healthy as they age, participating in the life of their social environment and improving their quality of life.
it is necessary to create new high-quality jobs, promote sustainable mobility, improve training and technical skills and coordinate them with labour market needs.
in fact, beyond the food and economic aspects, which are important and in relation to which the quality of products is ensured by environmentally sustainable methods and techniques, livestock farming represents the broadest form of presence, protection and development of rural areas.
this is why the eu, including through the common agricultural policy especially in the post-2013 reform, and each member state must foster its permanence, not only by innovating environmentally and economically sustainable farming and management methods and techniques, but also by strengthening their wider role as managers of the environment and the land and protecting them from market crises through lower production costs, enhanced product value and greater market organisation.
as early as last june, when i visited the country with the european parliament delegation, it was clear that the concentration of displaced camps, unremoved rubble and waste was a sign of the worst-case scenarios.
maintaining the principles of biodiversity must become an imperative of the european union's actions in fisheries and aquaculture.
in this respect, greater support for organic production is a guaranteed choice and entails the protection of biodiversity.
the agenda includes the report by jill evans, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (recast) (com (2008) 0809 c6-0471/2008 2008/0240 (cod)) (a7-0196/2010).
as the market expands and innovation cycles shorten, equipment is replaced more frequently, contributing to an increase in the waste stream of electrical and electronic equipment.
it is estimated that this waste will reach 12,3 million tonnes by 2020. the rohs directive, adopted in 2003, aimed at phasing out a first set of hazardous substances and has reduced the amount of substances disposed of and potentially released into the environment.
on the one hand, this agreement strengthens the protection of the environment by prohibiting substances which are considered dangerous on the basis of reliable scientific evidence; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the products concerned is not compromised.
increased support in this area is crucial for the sustainable development of european aquaculture.
only in this way can we diversify food production and supply, guaranteeing improved quality and greater environmental safety.
it is important to remember that when we talk about coal we are talking about areas which have no alternative to mining and which must be allowed to adopt production technologies which are competitive, compatible with the free market and with the environment.
logically, the postponement of public support to 2018 must be an imperative for institutions and companies to act immediately to achieve technological, financial and environmental compatibility conditions in line with the challenges ahead.
i agree with this measure - which i voted for - because the manufacturing environment in which the pharmaceutical industry operates is evolving at a very fast pace and it is therefore essential to keep this list, which currently contains over 8 000 products, constantly updated.
i voted in favour because i think it is important to review periodically the list of medicinal products which are not subject to customs duties in view of the rapidly changing production environment in which the pharmaceutical industry operates.
the new lisbon treaty gives the european parliament greater powers on fisheries partnership agreements and the reform of the common fisheries policy means that the new agreements commit to promoting responsible and sustainable fishing in all areas of the world.
i believe that cooperation on a regional basis is a great way to achieve sustainability outside eu waters and to promote fisheries governance.
the implementation of the plan will allow the management of the acciuga to be removed from the political negotiations that take place every year in december and will allow it to achieve the long-term objectives of managing european resources, ensuring their sustainability and maximum profitability.
the basis for the sustainable exploitation of fish stocks is thus laid without the need to lower the level of marketing standards.
the climate in the baltic sea is changing and different fish species are adapting to it, which means that their migration and reproduction cycles are also changing.
this will ensure improved safety, quality and diversification of products offered to consumers and thus better protection of the environment.
as regards the introduction of exotic species into closed aquaculture systems, which according to the commission is mainly concerned with 'aquaculture and restocking practices', i believe that this practice should be accompanied by strict surveillance of these facilities, installations and transport activities of these animals in order to avoid any escape that would disturb native ecosystems and natural habitats, representing one of the major factors that contributes most to the loss of biodiversity worldwide.
− the introduction of exotic species is one of the main elements of ecosystem disturbance and, together with the destruction of natural habitats, is one of the major contributors to the loss of biodiversity worldwide.
the sustainable development of european aquaculture requires robust support for scientific research and technological development in the field of farming of native species, so as to allow diversification of production and supply of food and an improvement of its quality, while ensuring greater environmental safety.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, given the scarcity of domestic energy sources in the union, i believe that support for the coal industry is justified by eu policies to promote renewable, lower-carbon fossil fuels for electricity production.
on the other hand, as regards environmental protection, the member states will be required to draw up a programme of measures to mitigate the environmental impact of the use of coal in the fields of energy efficiency, renewable energy and carbon capture and storage.
moreover, the problem of pollution is not one which needs to be discussed here.
if we want to find a solution to prevent climate change, it has to be found in coal plants.
it is only by transforming these types of plants that emissions will be reduced.
in view of the scarcity of domestic energy sources in the union, support to the coal industry is justified by the union policy to encourage the use of renewable and low-carbon fossil fuels for electricity generation.
among the important reports and resolutions adopted were those on the situation in madagascar, on climate change, on the situation in niger and on the second review of the cotonou agreements.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
the european citizens, the young, the businesses, the farmers, the municipalities and regions, the workers and the unemployed need a budget with a moderate, sustainable and realistic increase.
if there is no political and cultural growth with a global vision of europe, we will not be able to overcome the problems of the beginning of the third millennium, such as welfare, research, energy and environmental policies and security, which can only be solved by a political synthesis of all the states that make up the union.
the europe i want is not a waste of resources in promotional campaigns, but an efficient investment so that training prepares professionals for the internal market sector, where there are real job opportunities.
if, for example, we are already faced with multiannual commitments in the agri-environment programme, requiring farmers to submit new applications for exactly the same areas every year, then this is a huge nonsense.
what is perceived as complex is precisely this legislation on the environment and animal welfare.
these are also the procedures for certain specific measures, in particular agri-environmental measures, for which there is specific financial support, as well as investment measures often found in investment programmes, in particular the rural development programme.
; commitments to the necessary improvement of statistical record-keeping, to greater effectiveness of controls on extra-eu honey imports and to the development of research; the strengthening of the role of european veterinary policy; an action plan to address the phenomenon of widespread bee mortality, including through concrete research commitments; increased financial support in the field of training and education of operators and, finally, a renewed and leading role for the apiculture sector in the common agricultural policy after 2013. in thanking mr lulling and all the other members for the work they have done together, i would like to remind you, mr president, commissioner, that we are now coming to the end of the international year of biodiversity.
we therefore hope that the adoption of the resolution will definitely mark the start of the process of reviving a sector which is particularly strategic from the point of view of environmental sustainability and the maintenance of biodiversity, as well as in terms of economic and social impact.
this importance is underlined by its role as a defender of biodiversity and as a producer of honey, a complete foodstuff rich in nutrients, whose quality is recognised as being among the highest.
unfortunately, due to a number of factors, we are seeing an increase in bee mortality which is putting at risk not only the beekeepers in their planning but also agriculture and the environment.
many plants of agricultural interest depend on bees and, more generally, the balance of the ecosystem and the maintenance of biodiversity.
i hope we will not risk reopening a great debate on the institutions, which would lead us nowhere, in my view, in the present context, and would further distance us from the energy we must devote to combating the crisis.
i am forced to raise a fundamental problem here: transport commissioner kallas has repeatedly refused to meet with the sky & space board to discuss the cesar project, which is of interest to all from the economic, environmental and safety points of view.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the evans report on the revision of the directive because i am very sorry that in the compromise text, which was adopted under strong pressure from the industrial lobbies, any reference to pvc and halogenated flame retardants has disappeared, despite all the studies carried out by the commission since 2000 showing that the disposal of these substances poses serious risks to human health and the environment.
the idea of shifting the costs of industry onto the environment and the public is an approach which we cannot support because, in addition to altering the free market, it represents an unacceptable trade-off between the quality of life of people and the profits of companies.
i hope that the next update of the directive, which will take place in three years' time, will put the right to the health of citizens and the protection of the environment at the forefront.
the pharmacy is and must remain a basic health care facility and as such a protected environment with respect to the rules of competitive trade.
finally, the new parameters set out in this report will ensure greater protection for european consumers and greater respect for the environment.
the continuing expansion of the market and the shortening of the innovation cycles leading to frequent replacement of equipment are increasing the waste stream from the equipment.
i therefore believe that the need to protect certain primary goods, such as public health and the environment, is ultimately a priority, even if we are aware that we are acting in a context strongly characterized by the serious economic crisis that has struck europe and the world.
i voted in favour, agreeing with the need for the revision of the rohs directive to be set in the context of the eu's international obligations to reduce total emissions of dioxins and furans, with the aim of further reducing them and, where feasible, eliminating them permanently.
the final fate of waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) remains unclear.
the problem of dioxin and furane emissions can only be addressed by making concrete choices at the design stage.
i think that the question of the final fate of waste electrical and electronic equipment is particularly important, especially where it contains materials which have subsequently been recognised as dangerous.
we must act quickly, we must not delay any longer and waste time, otherwise we risk a stalemate in the negotiations to the detriment of european producers and consumers.
the agenda includes the report by lena kolarska-bobińska, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on 'towards a new energy strategy for europe 2011-2020' (2010/2108(ini) (a7-0313/2010).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, ensuring sustainable, secure and accessible energy is certainly one of the major challenges facing europe in the years ahead.
the full realisation of the internal energy market is an objective which can only be achieved if the existing legislation on the energy package is applied by all member states.
i believe that if the objectives of the strategy are to be fully achieved, investment in modern and intelligent infrastructure and, above all, in the research and use of renewable energy sources must be made.
investments themselves, in addition to being the most cost-effective solution to reduce the eu's energy dependence, will help to combat climate change.
first, it reiterates that energy efficiency and saving are an economically beneficial priority for reducing europe's energy dependence and combating climate change.
fourthly, it aims to achieve an energy policy with a strong and coherent international dimension.
finally, i would like to stress the importance of energy security and of investing in research, development and innovation to best protect the interests of consumers, businesses and citizens.
the decision is based on the fact that, in addition to co2 emissions, there is the problem of the management of ash containing many toxic substances.
the alternatives exist, they are renewable, they are real, and the european union must plan its course for the next decade in that direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report is of considerable interest because, starting from the basic idea that europe must have a common energy policy, it analyses methods and timing in a precise way.
in my personal speech at the energy forum, organised by president buzek among the representatives of the 27 eu countries and our parliament, i gave my support to a common energy plan which would allow equal access to energy for private individuals and businesses, thus eliminating the differences in costs, even if they are considerable, which exist today.
it is regrettable that the now inevitable calls for the european union to take responsibility for combating climate change have been inserted in a good report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, although i have announced in advance both in committee and in the house that the copenhagen climate conference and the document presented by this parliament will fail, experience has taught us nothing.
if we insist on unilaterally asking europe to reduce its emissions to levels far above those required under kyoto, the next summit in cancún - cop16 - will also be a failure and our parliament will once again make a bad impression.
the resolution adopted by the committee not only reiterates that the contribution to developing countries should not be less than eur 30 billion a year by 2020, but also encourages the union to promote the creation of a green climate fund, allocating usd 100 billion a year from 2020 onwards.
it even calls for a reduction in co2 emissions to the atmosphere by 2020 of 30% instead of 20%, and calls on the commission to come forward with a proposal for the eu to unilaterally set these targets.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, madam president-in-office, the european will to set ambitious targets for the next climate change conference is certainly a commitment to be pursued with tenacity and with the awareness that the results will determine the future of our planet.
china, for example, is committing to an increase in its emissions of 5 billion tons of co2 by 2020, with consequences that could be offset, and perhaps not even offset, by a 100% reduction in european industrial emissions by the same year, by 2020. this not only makes the proposal for an unconditional 30% reduction, which we strongly oppose, a welcome one, but it also leads many independent observers to assume that global emissions will still increase, even significantly, by that date.
the hope is that the european union will bring a shared, realistic and sustainable proposal to cancún, because an agreement that gives concrete and tangible results is always preferable to expectations that are inevitably destined to fail and to make the efforts of governments on major environmental issues less and less credible in the eyes of international public opinion.
the fight against climate change must be conducted globally and with the efforts of all, but the attitude that our position must depend on that of other countries is irresponsible and does not do justice to the role that the eu has set itself to play, a primary role in leading the cultural revolutions worldwide, first and foremost the fight against climate change.
i therefore thank the commissioner for calling on italy a few days ago to honour its financial pledges, namely eur 200 million to combat climate change.
firstly, marita ulvskog said early in this debate that the climate issue has slid down the international agenda this year.
that is of course true, but it is also true that if we compare our current position to two ago – or to five or ten years ago – we can see that climate is very much up on the agenda today.
were it not for the run-up to the copenhagen accord, can you imagine that the issues on climate change, energy efficiency and how to promote green growth would have survived the economic crisis?
this was not an issue for emerging economies before; two years ago the emerging economies would have said that climate change was not for them to deal with.
if we really get a decision on forestry, on adaptation, on technology, on the delivery of fast-start finance, on how to measure, report and verify carbon markets, and on the different elements that we have mentioned here, then i think it is substantial progress.
i think we must continue along this path and that this will also be crucial and very important in the coming days and weeks, in cancún and at the climate conference itself.
we will do this together with all the member states, with the european commission and with your support; in this way we must ensure that we can build on the confidence that was restored in nagoya, because the multilateral level has managed to reach an agreement again, and continue this in cancún, and also create hope for the climate.
the event, which will focus on economic growth, sustainable development and political governance, will cover a number of issues, including the review of agriculture and food security in the context of the millennium development goals.
the responsibilities of governments must not override those of civil society and the participation of all actors involved in sustainable economic and social growth strategies must be ensured.
we must strengthen the association agreements, we must work towards economic sustainability, which is mainly based on infrastructure, education, health, water resources, with real controls on the adequacy of the financial means allocated to african countries and remembering that africa is very different from one region to another.
so if a company were to raise the issue that you put forward concerning carbon leakage, then the commission would, of course, investigate and see whether the case ought to result in measures being imposed.
this is very important for europe’s citizens: how to create a conducive environment so we can achieve positive results but prevent the possibility, on the market, of fixed prices.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mrs saïfi's report because it sets out and achieves the objectives of defining a strengthening of the defence of human rights and of social and environmental standards in international trade agreements.
- ladies and gentlemen, the question of human rights and the application of social and environmental standards in trade negotiations is a complex and extremely difficult problem.
i voted in favour of the report because it is a good way to start and pursue a new trade policy based on firmness and dialogue, considering environmental standards to achieve 'legitimate' objectives.
− we support the human rights and social and environmental standards in international trade agreements, because too often third countries that do not respect workers' rights and do not agree to be active in the fight against climate change are unfairly competing with eu companies.
our companies must comply with very strict standards of worker protection and high levels of both wage and tax contributions, they must comply with laws that impose strict controls on emissions into the environment and they must comply with conditions set by local regulatory plans.
speaking in the committee on the environment and the interparliamentary meeting on energy, i called for the eu to be involved in the wto, so that europe could apply a carbon tax to countries that are not signatories to climate change agreements.
in march 2007, a non-governmental organisation active in the field of environmental protection requested access to certain documents under regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 regarding public access to european parliament, council and commission documents.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, beekeeping is one of the agricultural exploitation models with the least environmental impact and is therefore an activity particularly suited to protected areas.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on beekeeping because it is important to ensure that attention is paid to a sector which protects biodiversity and produces a complete foodstuff such as honey.
- mr president, the objectives of the motion for a resolution are shared: the commission will continue to support the efforts of the member states to achieve the objectives of the treaty, in particular the creation of a single european energy market, security of supply, energy saving, the development of new and renewable energy sources and the promotion of energy networks.
i fully agree with the call on the commission to adopt an ambitious action plan for energy efficiency, in order to reduce the eu's dependence, combat climate change, increase job creation and counter the rise in tariffs.
it is also necessary to ensure the proper functioning of the integrated market by creating an appropriate system of gas and energy infrastructure.
it should be noted, however, that particular emphasis has been placed on certain projects, without specifically mentioning others, which are also of european interest and which nevertheless contribute to the objective of achieving energy security.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report on the energy strategy because it makes a constructive contribution to the european debate on the subject and sets out the guidelines for the future of european energy policy.
it is not unknown that the european union is facing many challenges today, and that the eu is increasingly dependent on imports from abroad for energy.
the lisbon treaty is the first step towards a change of course in this direction, since it provides a strong framework and legal basis (article 194) for action in the field of energy policy and defines in detail a series of objectives to be achieved, including the functioning of the single energy market, security of supply, energy efficiency and the promotion of energy networks and renewable energy sources.
i therefore consider this document to be a very useful contribution to the elaboration and practical implementation of a common energy strategy for the coming decades which will strengthen europe.
- ladies and gentlemen, my motivation for voting in favour of the report by my colleague, ms lena kolarska-bobińska, is the awareness that the road to europe's energy future is currently full of obstacles and difficulties that need to be overcome.
the challenges facing europe are many and they are: the european energy system needs major investments at a time when the economic crisis is still raging in many sectors.
given the current situation in the eu, i believe it is time to implement a new energy strategy to meet the objectives of the climate package (20-20-20).
better use of budgetary resources for eu energy and climate policy would be useful.
the development of instruments to encourage the development and modernisation of energy networks would also be an interesting strategy, which i support in my position.
− climate change is a global problem and requires joint responses.
we cannot therefore back down from our commitment to make a concrete contribution to reducing emissions, although it is worth stressing that our effort is essentially diplomatic in nature.
i welcome the resolution on the cancún climate change conference, and in particular the amendments by the ppe group which affirm a principle of common sense and pragmatism: no increase in the emission reduction share can be decided unilaterally by the eu in the absence of concrete commitments by the other major global players.
europe must continue to be at the forefront of the fight against polluting emissions, but this cannot be done in the name of an ecological ideology that ignores a common assumption of responsibility, and ends up penalizing hundreds of thousands of small and mediumsized european enterprises, all the more so in a time of crisis.
- my vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on the preparations for the climate conference to be held in cancún from 29 november to 11 december is mainly due to the need to arrive in mexico with a clear and unambiguous common position.
however, it does not fall one centimetre behind the conditions set for emissions.
- i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the cancun climate change conference, so that europe can express its opinion in support of the climate agreements at a world-class conference.
global warming is now scientifically proven, so the goal must be to stabilise global greenhouse gas emissions by 2015 at the latest and to achieve a 50% reduction in emissions by 2050 in order to limit the temperature increase to 2°c, thus saving countries, people and ecosystems.
i have always personally supported the efforts of the un and its ambassador ross towards a negotiated and sustainable bilateral political dialogue between the two sides.
the resolution also allows ukraine to participate in eu programmes and sets out the implementation of new gas laws after kiev joins the energy community.
the european union's commitment to curb co2 emissions cannot be carried forward through declarations of principle and ideological oppositions.
whatever the consequences of the problem, and regardless of the often radical solutions that emerge from studies with more or less evidence, it is our responsibility not to push the environment to change because we do not know for sure what problems we are facing.
it is easy to ask member states to reduce emissions, but it is useless if the most polluting production facilities are moved to countries close to our borders.
the idea that we can solve the problem of co2 emissions into the environment by ourselves as europeans is pure utopia.
after asking too much at the copenhagen summit last year, we have not learned our lesson and again a document is being prepared which is asking too much also in view of the next summit on climate change in cancun.
this report seems to set the tone for the next document to be prepared for the summit on climate change (cop16).
the aim is fully acceptable, provided that it is implemented correctly and does not impose on our undertakings burdens which undermine their competitiveness, which is already restricted by often rigid rules in areas such as labour law and environmental standards (areas in which, moreover, no one in the member states questions the social benefits that accompany the burdens of cost structures).
- after the climate, energy and food crises, the international financial crisis, which has led to a social crisis everywhere, only increases the need for strong rules to ensure that the world economy is better regulated and does not develop to the detriment of societies.
on the other hand, it provokes very strong opposition when it destroys jobs or calls into question living conditions, social rights and the environment.
so pakistani law fuels this climate of persecution and unjust deaths.
cooperation at the level of cross-border regions should also be facilitated; in many areas of the european union, the potential for cooperation between regions and local authorities in neighbouring member states is very high, particularly in areas such as tourism, agriculture, industry and environmental policy.
cohesion policy was among the first to adopt its regional dimension, representing its added value and helping to ensure its effectiveness and sustainability.
the report proposes new directions for the future architecture of the policy, to strengthen its performance, to ensure strong sustainable growth and increased global competitiveness.
i believe, however, that we must not waste this new opportunity, which was born in cancun, to be concrete, to discuss, to no longer be football fans, because we are discussing something serious, we are discussing the future of our planet.
he says that it will be many years before we have the knowledge of climate that we have today in meteorology.
meanwhile, serious environmentalism requires that the interest of safeguarding the planet's environment be placed at its center.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the 16th climate conference in cancun has concluded, once again, with a non-binding compromise, the so-called 'balanced package'.
the green climate fund is being set up, which will cost the most advanced countries $100 billion a year from 2020, while $30 billion will be allocated for fast start immediately, of which $410 million will be borne by italy.
meanwhile, nothing has been imposed on the big polluters, and china alone has announced that it will double its energy production by 2020 and consequently, since it has decided to keep the 80-20 ratio between coal and other energy sources unchanged, it will double its emissions.
it is essential that at cop17 next year, there is a globally binding agreement on the fight against climate change, which provides for sanctions for those countries which continue to refuse to cooperate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner and the entire union delegation for helping to keep the process going, but we have not solved the real problems: firstly, we must give political meaning to the bali declaration - particularly to what we have already called climate justice in parliament - and we must make the emissions trading system more general and simpler, because it is not conceivable that a market mechanism should have 50% of emissions given away for free.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr bendtsen's report is positive for at least four reasons: reiterates that energy efficiency is the most effective and fastest way to reduce climate-changing emissions and that a strong commitment of resources and investment in this area will produce economic growth and jobs for small and medium-sized enterprises; makes sound proposals on the financial instruments that can be used and calls on the commission to focus decisively on vocational training, access to information for small and medium-sized enterprises and the renovation of existing buildings; proposes concrete objectives, confirms the energy efficiency contract instrument, under which guaranteed energy savings are purchased, a driving force for job creation and lowering the price of electricity bills for european citizens; finally, the report will be all the more useful if it can set binding emission targets without 'if' and without 'but'.
i would add that there is no culture of saving, of energy efficiency.
we are therefore in a climate and at a time when it is absolutely necessary to turn the page.
i believe that we must first of all move towards innovation and new technologies in the two areas of energy efficiency in buildings and, above all, energy efficiency in transport.
commissioner, we have recently voted on a report which establishes a fund by using the unspent residues of previous recovery plans to finance energy efficiency as well.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the review of the energy efficiency action plan must be carried out in a holistic manner, in a way that brings together the various european strategic guidelines.
while investing in energy efficiency is crucial to helping to meet the 2020 emission reduction targets, it is also important to focus on those initiatives that will make better use of the european union's unused energy saving potential.
i am pleased that a great deal of attention has been devoted to the energy efficiency of buildings, and initiatives must be taken in this regard at european level too.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with the energy efficiency policies that have been put in place so far by the various member states for 2020, we will not be able to achieve the 20% reduction in energy consumption target, but only 10% - a very disappointing result.
if energy consumption continues to grow, the 20% renewable energy target is also at risk, as this target is calculated on the eu's final energy consumption.
i am strongly in favour of a binding target also on energy efficiency to ensure that europe's climate-friendly energy policies are mutually reinforcing.
let's stop investing in new plants to produce more energy, and instead put our money and effort into the cleanest energy in the world, the one we can avoid using!
finally, i would ask you to support amendment no 2 which calls on the commission to launch an initiative in 2011 for the energy efficiency of existing buildings.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, energy efficiency is the keyword for the economy of the future, but it must not be imposed, it must be encouraged: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the community's energy supply.
we cannot think of forcing private actors to invest without being convinced or favoured: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is a good one.
mr president, the energy efficiency action plan is not a competition, where you set the bar and the constraints, but the beginning of a cultural path, a key objective of european policy designed to influence the behaviour of individuals and businesses.
it is a path that is facilitated not by rigid constraints that generate costs that are difficult to sustain for both citizens and businesses, but by concrete incentives and that is concretized by energy infrastructure, changing urban development, products, packaging and transport.
i would remind you that energy efficiency is considered the most cost-effective method of managing greenhouse gas and other emissions from energy production.
as regards the other specific issues at the heart of the question, i would start with the scientific committee on health and environmental risks, which refers to a study carried out by the joint research centre to evaluate the method used in laboratories to detect traces of heavy metals such as lead in toys.
from january 2011, priorities must therefore be set and made financially sustainable for the years ahead.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the european union cannot afford to back down in the energy challenge that will decide the fate of the planet.
the myth that the economic development of a country is closely linked to an increase in energy consumption must be dispelled.
europe must pioneer a new sustainable economic model based on less resource use, including energy, and greater productivity.
economic growth must therefore be based on an increase in energy services that create jobs and energy efficiency, rather than on an increase in the amount of energy sold to industry and citizens.
for these reasons, i believe that energy efficiency is the priority path for the future of the eu, both economically and environmentally, and i hope that the commission will immediately take the necessary steps to achieve the binding targets set by parliament today.
environmental and social issues and disasters caused by the financial crisis are among the most sensitive issues that can mobilise citizens to ask the eu to legislate on these issues.
i therefore call on the commission and the council to come forward with similar proposals to ensure the traceability of imported minerals on the eu market and on the african union to cooperate in the field of sustainable exploitation of raw materials.
this is not only an internal step of the eu, but also an external position for the safeguarding and protection of human rights, for the promotion of peace and for the welfare of citizens, in a climate where the law guarantees serenity, security and justice.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate mr bendtsen on such an important and timely report on energy efficiency.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that good energy efficiency can help us to reduce co2 emissions in a real way.
i therefore agree with the need to review the european union's energy efficiency policies and to implement concrete plans to boost competitiveness.
as regards buildings and eco-design, i agree that it is appropriate to focus on the renovation of existing buildings, which, if properly renovated, would have very high potential for energy efficiency.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in her report on the review of the energy efficiency action plan, mrs bendsten rightly points out that national policies are not yet fully exploiting the potential for energy efficiency.
− i voted in favour of the energy efficiency action plan because i believe it is important to move the eu towards a green and sustainable economy.
reducing energy consumption through systemic innovations for energy infrastructure and urban development is the objective that europe proposes in the new action plan that the commission will present in february.
the measures for an action plan shall be consistent with the national plans in order to outline a common methodology for measuring energy efficiency targets.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, even after some improvements to the initial draft, i share mr bendt's view that energy efficiency is the most cost-effective way of reducing co2 and other emissions and that it represents a unique opportunity to sustain and create employment while reducing dependence on energy imports; notes that according to the commission, the energy saving benefits could amount to more than eur 1 000 per household per year.
a major assumption, which has already been stated, is as follows – this is a basic philosophy: consolidation and the regaining of the confidence of the markets is the basis for stable, sustainable growth and jobs.
climate change will cause a huge number of refugees to flee the poorest areas of the world in the coming years, and it is our duty to begin to take account of these potential migration flows, so that we can create appropriate policies that allow us to guarantee respect for the dignity of these people.
the term 'climate refugee' is not yet recognised in international law.
of course, our commitment to combating desertification as an adaptation to climate change remains.
this has been an interesting and diverse debate, and i commend you for the continued interest and energy that you put into our engagement in afghanistan.
let us not always hide behind the problem of competitiveness, which should not be seen as a question of quantity and price but above all of quality, environmental sustainability and also ethics.