the eu-iraq memorandum of energy cooperation signed on monday clearly demonstrates its commitment to developing a long-term and mutually beneficial relationship.
iraq is of vital importance to the european union from an energy perspective, but ensuring the security of energy supply is inextricably linked to the economic and political stability of the country, which has been under great pressure in recent times.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
i agree with the main priorities of the spanish agenda on the eu 2020 strategy, on ensuring employment and social progress, on initiatives in the fields of education and innovation and on energy security issues.
− the second revision of the cotonou agreement is taking place in a very challenging environment when the global economy is facing crisis.
the negotiations on the agreement should encompass such extremely important points as the fight against climate change in developing countries, the practical use of immense renewable energy resources, the food crisis and the acquisition of arable land.
coming from lithuania, i am very well aware that member states alone are unable to achieve significant progress in terms of economic development, environmental protection, sustainable transport and tourism, energy and many other areas.
i wish my colleagues the determination to achieve their goals and i believe that their voice will be heard by the new commission, especially because sustainable regional development is among the top priorities on the commission’s agenda.
− i support this framework agreement because cooperation between the european parliament and the european commission is of paramount importance in strengthening the sustainability and efficiency of the european union.
i am convinced that this document will enable every region of the european union to invest in social infrastructure, with the help of the structural funds, ensuring affordability of housing, which in turn will not only help to reduce social exclusion but also contribute to the development of sustainable social, economic and environmental policies throughout the community.
− i support this framework agreement because cooperation between the european parliament and the european commission is of paramount importance in strengthening the sustainability and efficiency of the european union.
the eu was determined to lead the way and come back with a legally binding treaty, but the assembly ended with very little clarity on how the climate change situation would develop.
the eu, through its external action service, must start to lead the strategy of climate change diplomacy as soon as possible and to work to ensure that europe, in particular, speaks with one voice and takes a principled position in negotiations with other countries in order to reach a binding international climate agreement as soon as possible.
- madam president, the internal energy market and the security of energy supply are absolutely linked.
this has been gradually accepted in the european union, and in this sense energy security has become a strategic priority for the union.
we realised at that time that an internal energy market, an effective market which is fully functioning and interconnected, is an essential condition for a secure energy supply in europe.
security of supply is therefore a strategic, essential element which must be improved by increasing energy efficiency, diversifying energy suppliers, sources and supply routes, promoting the union's energy interests vis-à-vis third countries and, ultimately, creating a genuine common energy market which does not yet exist.
the linking of the energy islands in the european union to the internal market is therefore an essential objective of the union in the context of the second review of the energy strategy.
in july 2009, when the commission presented the baltic energy interconnection action plan, an initiative to foster energy market integration and the development of energy infrastructure in the baltic region, the european council welcomed it as an essential contribution to increasing the union's energy security.
the baltic energy market initiative is now part of the wider context of the eu strategy for the baltic sea region, which was one of the major priorities of the swedish presidency.
the council of october 2009 then endorsed the initiative, welcomed the progress made in energy infrastructure and interconnections in the baltic area and thus aligned itself with the commission's report.
and this is almost identical to the issue of co2 emissions that we're so often talking about.
the internet has no borders, so if we have different rules and regulations for online gambling, it's going to be like the climate change problem, a lot of languages and, unfortunately, little results.
the crisis has fundamentally changed european labour markets and it is therefore necessary to ensure that the necessary measures are in place to enable both workers and enterprises to adapt more easily to the changing environment.
first of all, i want to support the key priorities of the europe 2020 strategy: knowledge and innovation, a high-employment society, a competitive and sustainable economy.
i propose to add two more to these priorities: infrastructure development and an efficient energy policy.
while emphasising the strengthening of energy security as one of the main priorities of european energy policy in order to ensure the diversification of energy sources and supply routes, we must not forget the important projects rail batica and via baltica for lithuania alone.
i hope that today's vote by the european parliament has contributed to the conservation of fish stocks and a healthy marine environment.
the eu competence is strengthened in the field of energy policy, and the creation of a common energy market is a priority task for the european commission.
however, the european energy policy cannot be effectively promoted without having adequate and clear information about existing and planned energy infrastructure and projects in the european union.
the new regulation is a very important piece of legislation in the eu energy policy and i very much hope that it can work in practice.
the european energy policy cannot be effectively promoted without having adequate and clear information about existing and planned energy infrastructure in the european union.
the european commission, as the guardian of the eu treaty, must ensure that all member states comply with the provisions of the regulation and timely submit all necessary information on the expected developments in energy infrastructure.
ukraine should be encouraged to participate actively in the eastern partnership and its efforts to promote democracy and respect for the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as its commitment to a market economy, sustainable development and good governance, should be supported.
the european commission should develop an action strategy for the guidelines on equality between women and men, taking into account the economic and financial crisis, sustainable development, as well as the current priorities of the guidelines, equal economic independence for men and women, reconciliation of work, family and private life, equal participation of women and men in decision-making.
the problems that were relevant in 2002 have persisted and have been exacerbated by recent developments in the economic crisis and the impact of climate change on fish stocks.
the priorities of the overall reform of fisheries must continue to be the restoration of stocks, sustainable management and the maintenance of fishermen's livelihoods.
i am also pleased that the rapporteur has taken account of the itre committee's opinion on the problems of the internal energy market in the european union, and in particular that it is impossible to ensure the competitiveness and the interoperability of this market as long as there are energy islands and no interconnected and properly functioning energy infrastructure.
an effectively working internal market is essential for the creation of a stable and innovative economic environment.
− mrs blinkevičiūtė raises a very important question on pension reform, which is a key issue for the coming years, given the challenges we have to face together: the ageing population, the sustainability of public finances and the mobility of workers in particular.
the basic criterion for gsp+ is the ratification and effective implementation of 27 international conventions in the fields of human rights, core labour standards, sustainable development and good governance.
in this context the eu should strongly back taiwan’s participation in the international civil aviation organisation and in the united nations framework convention on climate change as taiwan’s participation in these organisations is important to the eu and global interests.
the eu's increasing energy dependence on supply sources and transit channels and the need to prevent the eu's energy dependence on third countries are undoubtedly among the key issues of the cfsp.
i would like to urge the vice-president of the commission, ms ashton, to implement decisively parliament's recommendations for a coherent and coordinated policy, in particular by promoting eu cohesion through a constructive dialogue with energy suppliers, in particular russia, and transit countries, supporting the eu's energy priorities and defending the common interests of the member states, developing effective diplomacy in the field of energy, developing more effective crisis management tools and promoting the diversification of energy supply, the sustainable use of energy and the development of renewable energy sources.
i am convinced that only by acting together can the eu ensure the uninterrupted and secure supply of gas and oil to its member states in the future and increase the energy independence of the eu as a whole.
the effects of climate change are fundamentally changing the situation in the arctic.
the arctic is opening up new sea lanes and opportunities for the transport of gas, oil and other natural resources as a result of global warming, but at the same time it is becoming highly vulnerable to ecological problems and the sharing of its resources between states, with potentially negative consequences for international stability and european security interests.
as regards the impact of the environment and climate change on the region, one of the main objectives of arctic policy must be to mitigate the negative impacts of climate change and to help the region adapt to the inevitable changes.
i think it is time to start thinking about an international convention on the management of this region, the preservation of the arctic environment and the sustainable use of its resources.
my second point is to remind you that the european parliament insists on the importance of the european commission supporting development and civil society projects in favour of the tibetan population in tibet and of tibetan refugees in exile – in india, nepal, bhutan – in economic and social fields such as health and nutrition, livelihoods and education, access to jobs, gender issues, environment and the revitalisation of settlements.
such areas could include transport, which should give priority to the development of a sustainable, safe and sustainable transport system, and the development of trans-european networks.
adequate financing of energy interconnection projects ensuring energy independence must also remain a priority in the 2011 budget.
indeed, this meeting will take place in a very difficult environment, with some 5.5 million young people out of work in the european union alone.
the commission is also required to make available to consumers all information and research results concerning gmos and the environmental and human health effects of gm feed, without concealing anything from them.
the budget will need to be carefully balanced to ensure the successful achievement of the objectives set out in the lisbon treaty, such as the creation of a single internal energy market.
we cannot allow the crisis to stop the progress these countries have made in sustainable economic growth over the last decade, and i believe that more development assistance is necessary.
increased efforts for transit of goods and inland waterway transport (more cost-effective and energy efficient, cleaner environment, safe).
small and medium-sized enterprises are the driving force of the eu economy and a key driver of sustainable economic growth, creating many quality jobs.
to promote economic growth and social and environmental stability.
the strategic vision, looking at the development of shipping, ports and similar sectors, is important for simplifying the eu's maritime policy to meet future challenges such as the fight against piracy and reducing the environmental impact of shipping.
an integrated, cross-sectoral approach is needed, covering fisheries, transport, environment, energy, industry, research and innovation policies.
the upcoming cap reform will have to take into account many issues, including climate change.
it is already clear that climate change will have a negative impact on eu agriculture, especially in the south and south-east regions.
the new cap, thus, will have to meet growing public demand for a more sustainable agricultural policy.
for the time being, the cap does not address environmental issues in a consistent manner.
the new challenges of climate change, water management, renewable energies and biodiversity were not fully taken on board at the time of the cap health check.
i am certain that the cap must be turned into an agricultural , food and environment policy with fairer and more sustainable farmer support systems while ensuring the preservation of rural areas, biodiversity conservation , carbon capture and food security.
− climate change can affect agriculture, including water shortages, new diseases and heat-related deaths.
agriculture can help to slow down climate change, but it should also be prepared to adapt to the effects of global warming.
the cap must recognise the impact of global warming and take action to mitigate climate change.
this can be achieved by promoting sustainable and renewable energy, carbon storage in the soil and limiting greenhouse gas emissions.
however, the costs associated with cap adaptation and climate change mitigation are still unclear.
climate change is a real threat, but better management of resources is needed in the near future.
this fact alone underlines the importance of farming for the eu's natural environment.
a strong european agricultural policy is needed to guarantee european farmers a stable and fair income beyond 2013 and to mitigate climate change.
− progress has been made in implementing the 2008 budget, but the number of errors detected in the structural and cohesion funds, rural development, research, energy and transport remains high.
these include the economic and financial crisis, climate change, security threats, the fight against terrorism, drug trafficking and organised crime.
we must work together to protect the environment, conserve natural resources, and also fight poverty and inequality and migration.
it is expected that the forthcoming eu-canada summit would focus on reinforcement of the political relationship between the two partners, in particular addressing such shared challenges as negotiations on a comprehensive economic trade agreement, foreign and security challenges, a coordinated response to the financial and economic crisis as also climate change and energy.
as the eu and canada are committed to build a low-carbon global economy that is safe and sustainable, also to invest in clean energy technologies and become the leaders in green job creation in order the capacity to adapt to the impacts of climate change would be strengthened.
cyanide has been recognised as a highly toxic chemical used in the gold-mining industry and which qualifies as a main pollutant and can have catastrophic and irreversible impact on human health and environment.
this chemical has caused the largest ecological disaster in the history of central europe.
it is unfortunate that no clear rules are being established at the eu level and cyanide continues to be used in gold miming putting the workers and environment at a great risk.
i believe that only a complete ban on cyanide mining technologies can protect our water resources and ecosystems against cyanide pollution.
we talk about creating jobs, we talk about protecting the environment, we talk about promoting youth entrepreneurship, we talk about supporting the education system, we talk about many other important elements, but we often talk about these as separate things, without seeing the big picture.
the europe 2020 strategy is intended to be a bridge between the economy and the environment, which young people should help to build, so that it becomes an opportunity for young people to offer their knowledge and shape the future of the european union.
secondly, we should focus more on environmental protection, more specifically environmental education, both by integrating it into curricula and by developing new disciplines.
in addition to the support for the companies i have mentioned, the eib should continue to pay close attention to financing the development of sustainable, competitive and secure energy and sustainable transport infrastructure.
the eib plays a role in the national stimulus package, especially when it comes to enhancing financing for small and medium-sized enterprises, but also financing renewable-energy and transport projects.
especially needed are investments in the hard sectors, such as transport, environment and, last but not least, energy.
the last one is of particular importance, especially knowing the energy infrastructure problems that... (the president cut off the speaker.)
i think that such a white paper is especially needed in the aftermath of the copenhagen climate change talks.
the non-binding document that was agreed in copenhagen to halt global warming at +2°c would still mean a warming scenario for europe, something that would be marked by extreme regional climate changes.
we need to pay special attention to the way we produce our energy.
we need to make stronger efforts to set up a tangible common energy policy.
we must support research into environmentally friendly technologies, but also set up clear policy frameworks on how renewable-energy technologies can be introduced and mainstreamed in our economies.
− i support the ec's initiative to use information and communication technologies (ict) to improve the union's energy efficiency and increase the competitiveness of european industry.
according to the ec's calculations, ict is a great tool for reducing energy consumption and, crucially, for reducing carbon emissions by up to 27%.
so the damage to the environment would be reduced.
logistics is an important factor in streamlining transport and reducing co2 emissions.
it is important to recognise the need to increase public and private investment in ict tools in order to create an advanced energy infrastructure in transport.
advanced transport systems for road and other modes of transport can reduce congestion and its negative environmental impact.
today we have such an opportunity: the forthcoming adoption of the revised directive on the energy performance of buildings.
buildings account for 40% of energy demand and 36% of carbon dioxide emissions in the eu.
implementing economic measures to reduce energy consumption in homes can make a significant contribution to achieving our 2020 greenhouse gas reduction and energy saving targets.
we are also strengthening our energy security and creating growth and jobs in the construction sector.
the newly adopted directive on the energy performance of buildings is helping to raise national building codes to a more ambitious level in terms of energy consumption in homes and is helping to reduce consumers' energy bills.
energy efficiency is the cheapest way to combat climate change.
firstly, the national building codes for new construction and renovation will result in buildings that are significantly more energy efficient.
this directive also covers smaller buildings of less than 1 000 m2 and minor energy-related renovations, as well as the replacement of boilers or windows.
homeowners and tenants are well informed with concrete information on the energy consumption and energy saving potential of a building.
the aim is to stimulate the market for the construction of low-energy houses and for large-scale renovations.
third, all new buildings must meet the ultra-rigorous low-energy building standard from 2020. the commission also proposes that member states draw up national action plans to increase the number of buildings in the eu to the lowest energy building standard.
for all these reasons, the new directive is a success of european energy policy.
they have already stressed that the new approach can only achieve its full energy saving potential if it is implemented effectively and rapidly and if there are supporting instruments.
to this end, we must make better use of existing financial instruments, such as the european regional development fund, where the possibility of calling up 4% of the budget for energy efficiency measures has so far been little used by the member states.
we are preparing these days - as already announced in the committee on industry - to redistribute at least eur 150 million of uncalled funds from the european economic recovery programme to projects in the field of renewable energy and energy efficiency.
the issue of energy performance of buildings is of particular relevance in the context of the overall internal energy market.
the building sector is one of the sectors with the greatest potential for energy savings in the european union.
this is particularly relevant for residents of the new countries of the european union, as these countries have the highest number of old and energy-poor residential buildings, and residents living in them and earning the lowest incomes are forced to pay the most for utilities.
the approach to near-zero energy consumption in buildings means that the cartel for builders is set even higher than has been the case in the past in the discussion of passive house technologies.
as many have already said, the most cost-effective way to achieve energy security is to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by saving energy.
the building sector, as a whole, has a great deal of untapped potential not only for energy saving but also for creating new jobs and new technologies.
the revision of this energy performance of buildings directive is therefore very timely and necessary in the current crisis.
the minimum requirements for new and renovated buildings laid down in the directive will help to optimise the use of energy resources and save money for citizens and the state.
energy efficiency, one of the priorities of the european union, should also become a policy priority for each member state.
− the eu has identified the building sector as one of the most promising areas for energy savings.
energy-efficient buildings save on average 30% of energy compared to conventional buildings.
in the new eu countries, as well as in lithuania, many apartment blocks waste about 60% of their heat energy.
not only do their residents pay huge sums for heating, but they are responsible for tons of co2 emissions.
i voted in favour of this recommendation on the energy performance of buildings, as it sets the objective of achieving near-zero energy consumption in buildings.
this will ensure that eu buildings become energy sustainable over time.
implementing this directive will help the eu to reduce its energy consumption by one fifth by 2020. investments in energy efficiency will create millions of jobs and contribute to eu economic growth.
− the stockholm programme provides for the establishment of a robust and sustainable common asylum policy in the european union.
first of all, i would like to point out that the rapid development of information and new technologies is making the educational environment increasingly complex and diverse, and that it is necessary to adapt to the new needs of a changing world.
the macro-financial assistance would be provided at a time when the eu is also helping to mobilise funding to support ukraine's energy sector reform.
the commission and other relevant authorities shall prepare a package of support to the ukrainian authorities to help find a sustainable solution to ukraine's medium-term gas transit and gas payment obligations.
the commission's attention to the procedure for applying social criteria is particularly important in the context of globalisation processes and therefore guidelines or other practical assistance are needed to provide particular information to public authorities and other public institutions in preparing sustainability-related public procurement.
and i think we, and europe, are putting a lot of money, a lot of human resources into solving the climate change problem.
the energy labelling directive plays a crucial role in achieving the eu's 20% energy efficiency target by 2020. to this end, it has a key role to play in the fight against climate change, in the transition of the eu towards an efficient, sustainable and competitive economy and in strengthening europe's energy security.
the agreement reached on the energy labelling directive has important added value in this respect.
all advertising for energy-related products must include information on the price and energy consumption of the product or object.
people actually want to save energy, and they usually do it for two reasons: economic and environmental.
today, with technological progress, people can choose electrical household appliances according to their energy efficiency, the labelling we have endorsed will contribute to making people make a conscious choice, to saving energy (thus making people choose more economical solutions) and to preserving the environment.
i am sure that europeans will take advantage of the opportunity to choose more efficient and environmentally friendly products and equipment as they become aware of the energy they use.
i welcome once again the european parliament's position on this issue and hope that such decisions will be a real incentive and opportunity to fulfil its commitment to reduce energy consumption by 2020.
in writing.
this must change if we are to prevent promising developments such as the eu's accession to the echr from being a waste of time.
i would also like to emphasise that the dynamic market, the rapidly changing working environment and the increasing development of new technologies also require higher education institutions to adapt to new developments.
this will reduce environmental risks and help to make better use of the knowledge and professional experience of the staff.
i believe that the bulgarian government, with the help of the european union, will help the workers and the community around the power plant to adapt to the changed conditions, and it is very important to help them to retrain and apply their knowledge in other areas, to promote the creation of new sustainable jobs and to transition to new energy, which is environmentally friendly.
some central and eastern european countries that have joined the european union have made politically and economically complex commitments in their accession treaties to close nuclear power plants and ensure safe management of radioactive waste.
i therefore welcome the commission's decision to provide additional support to bulgaria from the european union budget, as it is clear that without community support, as in the case of lithuania, it would not be possible to ensure the implementation of the necessary decommissioning works, the common community security policy and the necessary measures for the safety of european citizens and the protection of the environment.
since lithuania regained its independence in 1991, the ignalina nuclear power plant has made a significant contribution to our economy and has covered more than 70% of our country's energy consumption.
the ignalina nuclear power plant was a source of cheap energy for industry and consumers, as well as a source of export revenues.
nuclear technology is by no means an antidote to our energy security and natural disasters, but the efficient and safe use of nuclear energy could contribute to overcoming long-term strategic challenges.
the long-term sustainability of public finances is essential for stability and growth.
the report rightly notes that high debt and deficit levels threaten sustainability and could have a devastating impact on employment, public health and pensions.
this can be achieved by ensuring the long-term sustainability of public finances, speaking out and being transparent in all activities.
if we need proof that no durable and sustainable development exists without security, we have it here.
eu funds such as the structural fund and the cohesion fund have helped shape lithuania's economic, social and environmental development and will continue to do so.
this will also allow optimisation of production processes and energy savings, which are crucial in the fight against climate change.
research and innovation are the key ingredients for successfully addressing the biggest and most pressing societal and environmental challenges and delivering on the eu's strategic policy objectives, such as competitiveness, climate change, employment, demographic change and many others.
there was negative economic growth, which meant that estonia’s public finances were simply no longer on a sustainable basis.
estonia’s debt level is very low: 7.2% for the moment, while the european average is 75%, but the gradient was very worrying and it was only common sense in economic terms to ensure that estonia will be able to continue its stability-oriented policies and ensure the sustainability of its public finances.
− it is true that under the environmental impact assessment (eia) directive, the responsibility for gathering the necessary environmental information and submitting it to the public authorities is given to the developer.
however, this does not result in an opaque and partial eia process as the directive contains several safeguards which ensure a transparent and objective environmental assessment of projects.
these safeguards are to be found, firstly, in the description of the minimum information to be included in the environmental impact assessment report which is required by the eia directive and, secondly, in the consultations with the competent environmental authorities and the public.
indeed, all the information provided by the developer has to be made public to the environmental authorities and the public, which have to be consulted.
this means that the competent environmental authorities can use their own capacity to proceed with a proper assessment of the information provided, while ngos or interested parties can – and very often do – challenge the whole assessment on the basis of the data provided, in case they do not reflect the real situation or omit clearly to conform to the requirements of the eia provisions.
my objective is to present a new text which will further improve environmental protection, take on board the challenges in the areas of climate change, energy and biodiversity, integrate the ecj case-law and harmonise and simplify, to the extent possible, existing procedures.
in this context, the overall quality of the environmental assessments will be a central issue, and there is certainly room for improvement.
once all the relevant data and information are on the table, the commission will identify the appropriate policy options for amending the eia directive, including ways of ensuring the independence of the environmental assessments.
important in the context of projects carried out locally in the member states, but it is also important in the context of international projects and as an example, perhaps, it would be energy infrastructure projects, the same nordstream project in the baltic sea and what you mentioned, that the public also has a right to participate and that the implementers should take into account the fears of the public, but somehow not even the information of independent scientists was taken into account.
the implementation of projects under the baltic sea research and development programme bonus 169 has revealed the catastrophic situation of the baltic sea, especially in areas where large-scale energy infrastructure projects are planned and implemented not only by the european union but also by other countries bordering the union.
the bonus programme has thus already demonstrated its potential to contribute to the monitoring of the baltic environment and it is therefore necessary to continue to actively study the state of the baltic sea.
the programme is a preventive measure that draws attention to the complex ecological situation in the baltic sea.
only with the right research funding and early detection of threats will we prevent ecological disasters and i believe we will ensure that the baltic sea...
i welcome the european commission's efforts to establish a european financial stability facility to help euro area and non-euro area countries overcome their financial difficulties, and also to reform the economic governance system.
the baltic sea ecosystems are facing a major environmental threat, due to natural and human impacts, which must be addressed through science.
− i voted in favour of this report because the baltic sea and its coasts are increasingly being adversely affected by a variety of factors: pollution, climate change, acidification, depletion of resources and loss of biodiversity.
in order to reduce pollution in the baltic sea, eight eu member states, including lithuania, will therefore seek to implement the joint baltic sea research and development programme 'bonus-169'.
in view of the gravity of the current situation, research programmes in the baltic sea region could therefore be more focused and systematic in order to address the complex and urgent problems of marine pollution in a coordinated and effective manner.
unfortunately, as this report states, the baltic sea is suffering greatly from man-made hazards such as air pollution, climate change, depletion of resources and acidity.
member states acting separately cannot be left to deal with the environmental problems in the baltic sea region alone.
research responds to the environmental and social and economic challenges we face.
while the bonus programme focuses mainly on environmental research, we should not forget the other benefits that this programme can bring.
the 2020 strategy sets out very ambitious goals to be achieved during the coming decade, such as a high quality employment and more green jobs, climate and energy targets and many others.
the european union needs to reform its system of economic governance and to ensure the long-term sustainability of public finances which is essential for stability and growth.
we are well aware of the situation of human rights in russia: the continued killing of journalists, the climate of lawlessness, governmental toughness in dealing with the so-called terrorists in north caucasus and so on, but what we would like to know is: what was the reaction of the russians who were present at the human rights dialogue, and are they going to take any action on this?
the strategy is based on four main policy areas, one of which is the promotion of an environmentally sustainable environment.
i am therefore very pleased that my amendments to the document also reflect the planning and implementation of energy infrastructure projects around the baltic sea, which could have some impact on the baltic sea ecosystem.
especially when it comes to environmental issues.
biological waste, like waste in general, is an important and integral concern of all citizens of the european union.
in some countries, 10% of bio-waste is landfilled, in others, unfortunately, up to 90%.
the tasks for all of us should therefore be: the first task waste prevention and reduction, the second task, specific to the present situation, to make the european union a society that recycles waste.
biological waste, the possibility of using low-quality compost must be considered and evaluated in order to avoid harm to the environment and to humanity.
and at european union level, a proper definition of the possibilities for using low-quality compost and a definition of when compost is considered a product and when it is considered waste would help member states to better orient themselves in their approach to compost use.
the current disparities in economic development and innovation in the baltic sea region require the development of the potential of all sectors, including transport, energy and tourism.
− as a lithuanian and a liberal, i will always support a strategy that will help the baltic sea region become a best practice example of sustainable development and regional cooperation.
the strategy aims to reduce the baltic region's dependence on russian energy, to link the electricity networks of the countries in the region and diversify energy resources, to ensure the extension of the railway line from berlin to the baltic sea, and to address the difficulties of crossing the border with russia.
all the baltic countries, including russia and belarus, have to comply with the highest standards of nuclear safety and environmental protection.
− i voted in favour of the report on the european union strategy for the baltic sea region and the role of microregions in the future cohesion policy, in particular because the strategy needs to be implemented more quickly, especially in the context of the energy policy, which is one of the priority areas of the strategy.
we must develop cooperation between the baltic states and the neighbouring countries, while reducing the region's energy dependence.
i hope that the provision that eu countries must adhere to the highest safety and environmental standards in the case of planned nuclear energy development in the baltic sea region, and that the european commission must monitor and control whether neighbouring countries, especially those with plans to build nuclear power plants near the eu's external borders, follow the same approach and international conventions, will not remain on paper but will be implemented.
the plans of russia and belarus to build new nuclear power plants on the eu's eastern borders pose a serious threat to the ecological security not only of scandinavia but also of western europe.
cooperation with non-eu countries is also beneficial in the fields of environment, energy and others russia, belarus.
i voted in favour of the report without hesitation because it rightly states that the eu countries should set an example in the field of the environment, nuclear safety and, in particular, the construction of new nuclear power stations.
environmental ngos in belarus are sounding the alarm because they believe that the design and construction of the power plant does not comply with international safety and environmental standards.
successful implementation of the strategy could enhance the region’s prosperity and accessibility, and ensure security in the region and protect the environment.
possible areas for co-operation with russia include: transport connections, tourism, cross-border health threats, environmental protection and energy.
i believe that regional policy in the future must be based on the priorities set out in the eu 2020 strategy, such as knowledge-based sustainable growth, achieved through the use of new sustainable economic growth pathways, better business conditions for all regions, fair competition, promoting job creation, entrepreneurship and innovation, developing smes and supporting their growth.
our efforts must also be focused on long-term restructuring outcomes and the transition to a more sustainable economy – flexibility is also crucial for long-term policy.
it is also necessary to tackle the fundamental problem of the negative impact of traffic on health and the environment, to reduce co2 emissions from transport by means of sustainable measures such as the integration of energy from different sources, support for research and the development of less environmentally harmful technologies and modes of transport.
− as the eu economy and territory grow, waste volumes continue to increase steadily.
in order to manage the management of bio-waste effectively, the priority should be to prevent or reduce it.
efficient management of bio-waste can help to achieve the eu's target of 20% of energy consumption from renewable sources by 2020. however, in order to achieve the objective of more efficient management of waste resources and reducing the costs of bio-waste management, the european commission should draw up a directive on bio-waste management.
this directive should include the establishment of a waste collection system, which would be mandatory for member states, and provide for national methods for the recycling of biological waste in order to avoid less favourable methods such as landfilling and incineration.
− i voted in favour of the report on the commission green paper on the management of bio-waste in the eu, which makes a strong commitment to combat climate change and to reducing the negative impacts of economic growth.
even though bio-waste treatment has already been widely discussed in the european institutions, one cannot but notice how much the situation has changed in the past few years.
whereas technological progress has to be included in the debates, no less than 11 new member states have joined the eu along with lithuania, all of them bringing specific waste management practices.
while the annual amount of bio-waste in the eu is estimated at 76.5-102 mt for food and garden waste and up to 37 mt from the food and drink industry, i find it of utmost importance to pave the way for a debate on the possible need for future policy action.
improving bio-waste management and developing the use of bio-waste as a resource will result in considerable economic, social and environmental gains and help turn the eu into a resource-efficient ‘recycling society’.
in the financial sector remuneration policies for categories of staff whose professional activity has a material impact on the company’s risk profile have been such as to encourage transactions seeking short-term profits, with increasingly risky business models being developed to that end, to the detriment of workers, savers and investors, and sustainable growth in general.
we are all in the same boat and we need to take strong measures to create the preventive mechanisms and safety nets that ensure the sustainability and stability of the financial system.
iceland is a major contributor to the eu's environment and energy policy, through its renewable energy and its experience in combating global warming.
we are working on an energy strategy for 2020-2050. the crucial question is what role oil will play in the coming decades.
in fact, there is a worldwide trend, a tendency, to require more energy from oil.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not affected by the crisis.
it is possible to increase energy efficiency, reduce demand, move some of it and avoid it, but without oil, transport by air and by road by truck will not work in the coming decades.
cars: we are currently putting renewable energy in the transport sector at 10% by 2020 are the value we are pursuing together.
the first step in the process of creating a new environmental policy is to establish a new framework for the protection of the environment.
i think it is important to preserve this in the energy sector.
we shall be happy to report to you in the next few days in the circle of the coordinators for the environment and for industry and energy, and i shall come back to this house in the autumn with our comprehensive proposals.
concerning people and demands for real and tangible results as regards renewable energy, i would just say that the eu 2020 strategy, the commission’s strategy, focuses on giving research the funding and motivation to achieve results.
one of our goals in the framework of the research programme under the next financial perspective will be – and it is a priority – renewable ocean energy.
finally, and most importantly, what this disaster reminds us is that europe was particularly visionary when we adopted the energy-climate package in december 2008, the famous 3x20.
it is a kind of happy coincidence, in a way, that at the very moment when the previous us administration decided to embark again on an adventurous drilling policy, in alaska itself, and in absolutely extreme conditions, europe was doing exactly the opposite, europe was preparing to give itself the means of a real energy efficiency and a real transition to renewable energies.
last june 30 was the deadline for all member states to submit their national action plans for the development of renewable energy.
the same applies to energy efficiency assessments.
as you know, commissioner - and perhaps you also know, ladies and gentlemen - the presidency is very keen to see us make rapid progress on this energy efficiency issue.
renewable energy policies are obviously very good, but it's even better not to consume energy.
we know that in the field of buildings, and despite the regulations we have recently adopted on the energy performance of buildings, for example, in the field of heating, in the field of industry and even in the field of transport, there are still enormous gains to be made in europe.
as you know, commissioner, we are awaiting the first elements of the evaluation of the energy efficiency action plan so that we can start a second, extremely ambitious plan as soon as possible.
we shall also return to the subject of renewable marine energy, commissioner damanaki.
this is one of the largest renewable energy development projects.
in parallel, we are beginning to consider developing other renewable technologies in these wind farms in the north sea, using the power of the sea for the benefit of these productions.
this is also something we will be returning to, and it is also an important debate because, under this presidency, we will have to conclude the action plan 2011-2020, that is to say, to put into practice our energy vision for the next ten years.
some scientists are now telling us that europe can seriously imagine, by 2050, thanks to an effective energy efficiency policy and the development of renewable energies, reaching 100% renewable energy and thus being free of its fossil fuels within a horizon of about 40 years.
in the event of an accident on this platform, we would have an ecological disaster off the eu coast, in the most polluted sea on our continent.
the three cases are linked by a common feature: the environmental impact assessment procedures are paid for by the contracting authorities and are therefore not independent and objective.
i urge you to start discussions on the establishment of a system for independent environmental impact assessment.
a fund, funded by the companies concerned and administered by independent bodies, is a necessary part of such a system to finance environmental impact assessments, thus ensuring their objectivity.
on the other hand, we must ensure that these rules on objectivity apply not only to environmental impact assessments carried out by the eu but also by third countries.
more substantial efforts are needed to consolidate democracy and the rule of law and to ensure the country’s sustainable development.
− both albania and kosovo have made progress in reforms to strengthen democracy, the rule of law and sustainable development in the country.
this will be very difficult, as increasing production will be hampered by rising energy prices and the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
in addition, the effects of climate change will leave large additional areas of land unusable for production, requiring the eu and the global agricultural sector to produce more food with less land, water and energy.
a balanced economic and social development is needed to achieve a sustainable eu economy.
economic growth must be decoupled from increasing resource and energy consumption, reducing harmful emissions, and combating climate change.
the support would cover research, applied innovation and infrastructure, development of new technologies such as renewable energy and energy efficiency.
− i support this report because it encourages the creation of sustainable jobs, in other words jobs that meet the needs of the present generation without jeopardising the opportunities of future generations.
the objective of the new sustainable economy must be overall economic and social sustainability, creating long-term prospects for increased competitiveness, social well-being and better environmental protection.
− colleagues, the pursuit of a sustainable economy is not only an ecological imperative, but also one of the cornerstones of our strategy for a social europe.
therefore, a sustainable economy must include not only social and ecological sustainability but also technological and economic sustainability.
for example, energy efficiency.
most old lithuanian buildings are very uneconomical imported energy resources are used inefficiently, as evidenced by the high heating bills of the population.
national projects that provide insulation and increase energy efficiency in buildings are likely to bring money back into the market through wages and investments in the construction sector.
at the same time, it will make lithuania less dependent on imported energy resources.
but it shows that, especially in times of crisis, we need to think more creatively and join forces where we need to build the foundation for a sustainable future.
− in the face of both economic hardship and climate challenges, european farmers face unavoidable challenges.
i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the food market needs to be better managed in order to ensure fair returns for farmers, to promote price transparency throughout the food supply chain, to promote competition and to combat price volatility, to improve the exchange of information between market partners, and to take account of challenges such as climate change and biodiversity loss.
problems arise with regard to the age structure of the labour force and the sustainability of social protection and health care.
it would aim at creating a community framework for member states to ensure the safe and sustainable management of spent fuel and radioactive waste for all types of waste and at all stages from generation to disposal, avoiding undue burdens on future generations.
as the technical assessment is still ongoing, it is too early to describe what environmental requirements there will be.
all member states would continue to be responsible for managing their spent fuel and radioactive waste.
thank you for your reply, but it was rather vague and not very specific, and it seems to me that the european union should nevertheless put more environmental demands in this area.
the commission supports, monitors and assesses the impact and implementation of national reforms through the open method of coordination with a view to developing pension systems that are adequate, sustainable, as well as modern and transparent.
to measure progress towards achieving adequate and sustainable pensions, the member states, together with the commission, have developed a set of indicators within the social protection committee.
these will also be used under europe 2020 to assess the adequacy and sustainability of member states’ social protection and pension systems.
pension reform needs to be based on solutions that preserve the adequacy – and sustainability – of pensions, and which are not carried out at the expense of the elderly and the socially most vulnerable.
given the current pressure on pension systems and the problems with alternatives – such as higher taxes on pension contributions or poorer pensioners – the member states need to consider the role that more people working more and longer can play in ensuring pensions are both adequate and sustainable.
with our green paper on pensions published on 7 july, the commission has opened a europe-wide debate on whether and how the european framework for pensions should be developed to ensure our pensions are adequate, sustainable and safe.
the successful achievement of the objectives set requires the development of sustainable systems for the financing of long-term care services.
the third priority theme will be environment and sustainable development, in particular with a view to achieving the millennium development goals.
the regulatory environment in the european union is being improved through a number of measures, such as impact assessment, reduction of administrative burdens and simplification and harmonisation of existing legislation.
in line with the employment guidelines, member states must make every effort to achieve the overarching objective of sustainable growth and job creation.
to achieve this, it is necessary to invest in sustainable growth that will promote the preservation of existing jobs and the creation of new ones, with a particular focus on small and medium-sized enterprises, which generate the majority of jobs in europe.
− the demographic change in the european union is driving the ageing population and important challenges need to be addressed now: meeting the growing demand for healthcare, adapting health systems to the needs of an ageing population and ensuring their sustainability in a society with fewer people of working age.
the current high prevalence of poverty among older people, as a result of drastic cuts in pensions and other social benefits in many eu countries, makes it important to develop sustainable long-term care financing systems to finance care for older people.
the increasing dependence on imported energy, in particular gas, is one of the new challenges of the union's security policy, which will require the united and solidarity-based efforts of the union and of us all.
the european commission must play a very important role not only in crisis situations but also in shaping the eu's energy policy in general and in particular in gas supply contracts with third country suppliers.
i would very much like, mr commissioner, that the very manner and conditions of the signing of the yamal gas pipeline agreement between poland and russia should not become a bad example in the context of all new and future energy strategies and the document under discussion today.
the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december called on the commission to take all necessary steps to ensure that the union's energy policy is fully integrated into the union's energy policy.
the principle of solidarity between member states is enshrined in the gas security regulation another step towards a common energy policy.
i would like to thank my colleagues who understood and took this into account in the negotiation of this regulation and the commission for formally committing to tackling the energy island problem in the energy infrastructure package.
this is a very important step towards the implementation of the common energy policy of the european union.
a step towards energy solidarity between the member states of the european union and greater regional cooperation.
i voted in favour of this document because i believe that this regulation will ensure that the energy islands of the european union, such as the baltic states, will not be deprived of gas supplies by the monopolists who have unilaterally closed their taps.
it also opens the way for european union financing of energy infrastructure projects contributing to the removal of energy isolation.
the second, no less important, aspect is the environment.
as the regulation also allows for the financing of projects from third countries by the european union, i hope that the european commission will speed up the implementation of the independent environmental impact assessment instrument.
the protection of biodiversity is linked to many other european union policies.
both the fisheries, energy and agricultural sectors are affected by the baltic sea's difficult situation in this case.
the european commission is concerned about the loss of biodiversity itself, but at the same time it is not doing enough to tackle the factors that are driving this process.
to make efforts to ensure a sustainable fisheries policy, the good functioning of natura 2000, to reduce pollution, both co2 emissions and waste water pollution, and to reduce pesticide and phosphate levels.
these are the factors which are contributing significantly to the eutrophication of the baltic sea, which is leading to the loss of biodiversity.
the irresponsible implementation of large-scale, so-called commercial energy projects in the baltic sea, the lack of a critical approach to their implementation, also contributes significantly to this pollution.
as far back as september 2009, when i spoke to the itre committee when the draft regulation was presented, i stressed that the creation of a secure and single energy market will not be possible as long as the eu has energy islands that are entirely dependent on a single external gas supplier and do not have access to european infrastructure.
i believe that this document is the first step towards real european energy integration, with a focus on cross-border connections, diversification of energy sources and routes and more effective implementation of energy efficiency initiatives.
energy security is one of the eu's top priorities.
finally, energy policy, which was previously based on national interests alone, is being taken to the european level.
the energy community must be based on competitiveness, sustainability and, in particular, security of supply.
meanwhile, lithuania needs to diversify its energy resources: the discussions on the construction of a new nuclear power plant must have a real basis and not remain at the level of mere deliberations, which of course also concerns the electricity bridges to the west and the construction of a liquefied gas terminal.
we must make every effort to ensure that in the future we are not just consumers of russian energy, but also business partners providing our own channels for the flow of energy from the east to the west.
these 'energy islands' are particularly in need of community financial support to link their gas networks to the eu's single system.
- i voted in favour of this report because the loss of biodiversity is a serious threat.
biodiversity, which is crucial for balanced development and poverty reduction, is essential for our planet, for human well-being and for human livelihoods and cultural integrity.
but now, human activities are destroying biodiversity at an unprecedented rate.
this trend can be reversed if local populations benefit from the conservation and balanced use of biodiversity.
it should be noted that the loss of biodiversity is mainly driven by sectoral activities, as biodiversity aspects are not sufficiently taken into account in sectoral policies, including conservation of natural resources, agriculture, fisheries, regional policy and spatial planning, forestry, energy and transport, tourism, development and economic cooperation.
it is urgent and necessary to halt the loss of biodiversity in europe.
many of them are dedicated to specific measures to protect key species and sites, but in order to preserve biodiversity, it is essential that biodiversity needs are taken into account in the design and implementation of relevant sectoral policies.
it is good to see that the aim is to halt the loss of biodiversity and the degradation of ecosystem functions in the eu by 2020, to restore them as far as possible and to increase eu support to prevent the loss of biodiversity in the world.
− i supported this report because the number of natural disasters in the eu has increased in recent years, with significant and long-term consequences for the environment and the economy of the affected areas.
reducing poverty in developing countries requires not only increasing employment but also creating new sustainable jobs.
it is good to see calls for a review of privatisation policies, particularly in relation to the provision of public services such as waste collection and treatment, water and heat supply, residential maintenance and other services of general interest.
the new treaty of lisbon has given the european union a number of new and important privileges in the areas of external action, climate change, energy, tourism and other important areas.
the european commission's efforts to develop an appropriate framework of legislation on environmental and oil production issues in the european union are to be welcomed.
mr president, the harmonious development of the union is a precondition for its sustainable economic growth and social welfare.
the european union is committed to transforming its economy to be energy efficient and low greenhouse gas emissions.
the inclusion of the aviation sector in the union greenhouse gas emission allowance scheme is an important step towards reducing the negative impact of aircraft on climate change.
this will avoid distortions of competition and improve environmental efficiency.
the union's essential commitments such as the fight against climate change undoubtedly require coordinated and solidary action by the union.
the agreement with third country air carriers should promote optimal interaction between the union system and the measures applied by those countries, ensure appropriate competition and reduce emissions.
but it is also essential to protect the internal market from products from countries which do not cherish values such as democracy, the environment and social guarantees, which makes goods and services from those countries cheaper and our european companies unable to compete under such conditions.
what is needed now is a sound and ambitious policy to create a more efficient, integrated and sustainable european supervisory system.
the presidency therefore wished, at the informal meeting of the energy ministers on 6 and 7 september, that commissioner oettinger should come and give his initial assessments.
as regards more specifically environmental protection, the european union now has a fairly advanced legislative framework.
the precautionary principle and the polluter pays principle are fundamental principles of european environmental policy and are included in the treaty.
the oil spill caused by this platform in the gulf of mexico may also provide an opportunity for the commission and the member states to reassess certain aspects of existing environmental legislation.
the damage has been done, and it is a damage which will have a lasting impact on the environment, nature, culture, tourism and fisheries, and which can only be remedied with limited financial resources.
so if bp now intends to take appropriate action and build platforms off the coast of libya, then we propose to get a self-commitment from the european energy industry, namely bp, shell, total, and that they commit themselves to voluntarily accept and apply the same strict standard that they have to apply in the territory of the european union in these neighbouring regions.
that is to say, a libyan offshore oil platform built and operated by bp, or perhaps a platform off the coast of west africa operated by a european energy company, should and must have the same standard as is practiced by us legally in the north sea.
on behalf of the s&d group the environmental disaster in the gulf of mexico has highlighted the lack of safety and reliability of oil extraction operations.
this tragic disaster, which has claimed human lives and caused immeasurable damage to the environment, should also be a valuable lesson for us europeans.
this includes the controversial nord stream pipeline and other oil and gas infrastructure that is essential for europe's energy security, but which must meet the highest environmental standards.
the european commission and the european union in general should strengthen the dialogue with third countries on certain energy infrastructure projects.
biodiversity is a complex and complex issue, and it is clear that it is of importance both in the european union and globally.
but it raises another question: how do we balance environmental protection and economic growth?
it is well known that biodiversity loss is most closely linked to human activities, often overlooked.
it is always possible to say that environmental requirements are a hindrance to competitiveness, because the standards of the european union are high and those of other countries are not, and there are certain problems and it is obviously difficult to find a balance.
it is important that the environmental impact assessment of that analysis is of high quality and independent.
in addition to topics such as climate change and trade, the situation of human rights defenders in china, the death penalty and the laogai labour camps are discussed.
it is necessary to ensure stable and sustainable economic growth and job creation.
in view of the current situation, with a 30% decline in biodiversity over the last 40 years, and with future projections of a tenfold increase in the rate of biodiversity loss by 2050, it is necessary to take decisive action now to conserve biodiversity and promote its sustainable use.
the loss of biodiversity is a threat to food security, energy depletion and climate change.
to avoid the negative impact of these processes, cooperation between the commission and the member states is necessary in developing a sustainable eu biodiversity strategy, which is aligned with the objectives of combating poverty, sustainable waste management and climate change mitigation.
− i voted in favour of this resolution because the european union must now foresee how the eu's regional and cohesion policy will be financed and coordinated after 2013. i agree with the european parliament's position that we must plan and allocate eu funds for the structural funds now to ensure that sufficient funds are allocated in the new long-term financial period to ensure the sustainable development of all eu regions.
a policy for sustainable growth and jobs in europe is essential.
energy, innovation, research, education, mobility are the foundation of our economic growth, the creation of new jobs.
if an accident were to happen, emsa has standby pollution response vessels and equipment permanently located in the baltic.
this is in addition to the pollution response measures already put in place by the baltic states.
the international maritime organisation already recognises the baltic as a particularly sensitive sea area and this status brings with it particular maritime traffic requirements to reduce the risk of accidents and to protect the marine environment.
additional restrictions to commercial transport in the baltic sea could potentially promote other less environmentally-friendly modes of transport with increased emissions as a consequence.
as regards the standards for environmental improvements for ships, which countries in your opinion are leading in this area and which are not among the best?
the second major ecological disaster in the last six months in a particular part of our planet the oil spill in the gulf of mexico in april, now the red mud in hungary.
although different in nature, both disasters have something in common: they are, or at least their scale is, essentially avoidable through a more responsible approach to the environment.
unfortunately, in many eu countries (and not just in some), environmental protection and environmental requirements are often not the first priority when designing, constructing and operating facilities with a significant environmental impact.
so i'm sure that each of us, if we look around, we'll find a number of objects that sooner or later could be ecological disaster of a greater or lesser scale.
in many places, environmental requirements are neglected (intentionally or through ignorance), construction is allowed to take place in the vicinity of residential areas, environmental impact assessments are carried out only superficially, without any real consultation with the residents, and the results are always in the client's favour.
i call on both the european commission and the member states to open their eyes once again and, seeing the real situation, to take action to initiate legislative amendments to tighten controls on the enforcement of environmental requirements and the liability for non-compliance with such requirements, and to ensure independent environmental impact assessment.
the crisis requires urgent infrastructure solutions in the sectors of renewable energy, green energy, energy-efficient transport, buildings and the european energy grid.
we will start to create a clear and understandable environment for him and contribute to the creation of a business culture.
we need to restore public confidence in our financial and political institutions, both in lithuania and across europe, and to build a viable and sustainable financial system that protects against future crises.
the focus must be on long-term sustainable growth, creating quality jobs, rather than short-term profits, which seriously undermine the financial stability of european markets.
we need to re-adapt the seas and their resources and coordinate our actions, and an integrated maritime policy is important in that it will bring together all the maritime policy areas: maritime transport, fisheries, aquaculture, energy, maritime safety, marine protection and research, as well as tourism.
it is also necessary to seek the introduction of common rules for the labelling of the environmental standards with which the product is produced.
− i voted in favour of this document because i believe that an integrated maritime policy is essential to ensure an adequate level of environmental protection.
one of the key principles is the coordination of different policies and the need to ensure compliance with the principle of ecosystem protection enshrined in the eu marine strategy framework directive.
in particular, i support the measures for the coordination of maritime surveillance and control, protection of the marine environment and research mentioned in the document.
as the disaster of the oil spill in the gulf of mexico demonstrated, a fragile marine ecosystem can be damaged in an instant.
mr president, the eu-us agenda is as full as ever and both parties should use the opportunity to advance common positions on issues such as financial regulation, climate change, the deepening of trade ties, nuclear proliferation and the fight against terrorism.
following president barack obama's election victory two years ago, the eu and the us have become increasingly aligned, particularly on disarmament, the fight against climate change and the suppression of international conflicts.
a large part of the american public is opposed to action on climate change.
an ambitious bill to curb greenhouse gas emissions is still stuck in the senate.
the implementation of virtually all eu policies, such as energy efficiency, a cleaner economy, reducing the negative impact of climate change, ensuring social well-being and creating jobs, will depend directly on the effectiveness of innovation policy.
we should not stop here – we should encourage taiwan’s accession to other international organisations as well, such as the international civil aviation organisation or the united nations framework convention on climate change.
first of all, i should also like to congratulate my colleague from the group of the european people's party on her hard work in negotiating this document and in including it in the context of the energy market, which is of vital importance for the european union as a whole.
in the context of energy security, it is particularly important to promote the development of energy efficiency and renewable energy sources and to ensure the necessary funding for such projects.
the successful implementation of such projects would directly contribute to the achievement of the european union's energy objectives.
this additional money will allow local and regional authorities to better finance sustainable energy projects and implement innovative financial incentive schemes such as guarantees and soft loans.
so far, energy efficiency plans such as the renovation of buildings, which has already been discussed, have not been fully implemented, so i believe that this additional funding will be a good incentive to accelerate sustainable energy initiatives and projects, especially at regional and local level.
support for energy infrastructure projects under the european union's economic stimulus funds was discussed and allocated a year ago.
the funds were then allocated to only two types of projects aimed at reducing carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere, i.e.
we cannot have a one-size-fits-all answer for this support and for support for renewable energy in general.
we must take account of the situation in each member state, especially as regards energy independence.
the proposal of the european commission to revise the funding arrangements for the programme in the light of the promotion of energy efficiency is therefore to be welcomed.
but i don't think we should be talking about this just in the light of the financial crisis, because once the economy hits a normal cycle, the energy efficiency question is not going anywhere.
member states should have the flexibility to respond more flexibly to changing circumstances, thereby promoting energy efficiency, energy diversification and greater independence.
the possibility of channelling funds not used under the regulation to develop energy efficiency and renewable energy projects was already programmed in the regulation, but i am pleased that we were able to reach a consensus on concrete implementation so quickly.
energy efficiency and renewable energy have been repeatedly identified as eu priorities to help deliver the 2020 strategy and ensure energy security.
investment in this sector is crucial in a difficult economic period, as it will create jobs, boost competitiveness, innovation and economic sustainability.
it is regrettable that the financial instrument envisaged is not continuous, but i hope that it will provide the right incentive to further promote energy efficiency and renewable energy.
the eu-us agenda is full as ever, and both parties should use the opportunity to advance common positions on issues such as financial regulation, climate change, deepening of treaties and the fight against terrorism.
− i thank the authors of the report for the excellent legislative initiative which i supported, as financing projects in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy sources will help to stimulate economic recovery, create jobs, promote social inclusion and attract regions.
in some countries, projects for building renovation, gas and electricity infrastructure, interconnections, wind farms, and carbon capture and storage are making slow progress.
the communication is particularly relevant for lithuania, which is increasingly dependent on russian energy resources, and i therefore hope that the government will make every effort to secure funding and channel financial resources to the local level in order to create added value, direct benefits for citizens, reduce energy poverty and avoid bureaucratic obstacles.
while the eu and the us remain the world's strongest economic powers, the serious impact of the financial and economic crisis has led to the creation of a more integrated transatlantic market, which would create more favourable conditions for economic growth, sustainable social development.
it is therefore necessary to develop bilateral cooperation in the development of a common energy strategy that supports the diversification and security of energy resources and supply chains and promotes an environmentally efficient economy.
these issues are relevant to climate change, a healthy environment and food security.
the massive ecological disaster in the gulf of mexico has raised hopes that the u.s. administration will take appropriate action to ensure environmental stewardship and bring the problems of climate change closer to solution.
the eu must play an active role at the cancún climate change conference.
it is necessary to explore ways of linking the eu greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme with regional or federal emissions trading schemes in the us.
we must also seek transatlantic partnerships on strategic energy issues on security of energy supply and on the policy of transition to low-carbon energy sources.
the issue of transatlantic cooperation in the area of a healthy environment the application of new food products and new technologies in food production.
the osce is an integral part of the euro-atlantic and eurasian security architecture with a broad security concept covering political and military, economic and environmental and human dimensions.
− ladies and gentlemen, as many of you are aware, lithuania will assume the chairmanship of the osce in january 2011. this presidency could be a unique opportunity for my country to take the lead in strengthening regional cooperation, enhancing energy security and fighting corruption.
these are the under-monitoring of pension systems, national budgets, health, education and employment policies, where structural reforms should be pursued and new sustainable solutions sought.
the eu imposes the highest standards on producers in terms of food safety and quality, environmental protection, animal health and welfare and working conditions, which greatly increases costs for producers and reduces their competitiveness compared to third country producers.
we have already seen what can happen to energy supply and prices when the eu is dependent on imports.
climate change is increasing the number of natural disasters in europe and worldwide, leading to a rise in human deaths and large losses.
i believe that the revision of the regulation should aim at creating a stronger and more flexible instrument to respond more effectively to the new challenges of climate change and to provide urgent assistance to those affected by natural disasters.
the new vat strategy should aim to reduce the administrative burden, remove tax barriers and improve the business environment, in particular for smes.
the highly successful eu-led aceh monitoring mission (amm) from 2005 to 2006 serves as an important example and reminder of how civilian-military synergies can anchor peace and build confidence in an unstable environment in a timely and effective way.
− the baltic sea region has been designated as a highly sensitive marine area by the international maritime organisation's marine environment protection committee.
i voted in favour of the provisions in this document that the conditions for sustainable exploitation of fish stocks must be created without reducing trading standards.
i agree with the european parliament's position that action under the common fisheries policy is urgently needed to solve the problem of fishing in the baltic sea, bearing in mind that, from an environmental point of view, such fishing is damaging to the entire baltic sea ecosystem.
the baltic sea is also experiencing a changing climate, and different fish species are adapting to these changes.
i agree that this process must include measures to improve the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources and the efficient management of marine resources.
the coal industry, although it accounts for a small share of the eu energy market, provides jobs for eu citizens working in it and economic development in sparsely populated and remote regions where coal-mining companies are mainly located.
it is important to ensure that the closure of a non-competitive mine provides the long-term financing needed to ensure environmental protection and the restoration of the environment of the former mining sites.
it has also dealt a blow to our energy independence, and we must not forget that the european union is based on energy solidarity.
lithuania and the baltic states are now energy islands cut off from the european gas and electricity networks.
i was delighted to hear this month that the european commission is supporting the baltic sea energy market connections plan.
finally, it is important to take into account the safety of workers in coal mines and other energy industries.
i therefore fully support greater financial market surveillance, the creation of a common energy market and the establishment of the principles of greater state integration into our economy.
the most important one here, however, is to shape a macroeconomic environment in europe that will facilitate a continued robust recovery.
the member is dealing with the subject of renewable energy, and what are we doing to move closer to our common goals?
we have had ambitious climate targets set by the european council for the last three years.
one of these targets concerns renewable energy, which is expected to contribute 20% of the total final energy consumption of the european union in 2020. each eu member state must use its own resources to make its own contribution.
to reach 20% of total final energy consumption, we need up to 35% of renewable energy in the area of electricity conversion.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy supply is not affected by the crisis.
we have discussed and agreed on an energy infrastructure package which focuses on the integration and use of renewable energy sources.
we have set binding renewable energy targets for each member state.
in doing so, member states should focus on how to create the best possible framework for the use of renewable energy.
the second is to remove administrative barriers in favour of renewable energy.
forty percent of our final energy consumption is in the building sector in industrial, service and residential buildings.
by the end of 2012, we want to develop qualification and certification schemes for the installation of renewable plants.
the distribution and transmission networks must be prepared for the further development and growth of renewable energy and must ensure priority access for renewable energy.
they are free to choose which renewable energy sources they use to achieve their binding targets.
and we, the commission, with the funds from the seventh framework programme for research which you - the parliament - have made available to us, are supporting innovations and projects aimed at researching, developing and bringing to market the technologies for renewable energies.
the commission then allocated funds from the european economic recovery programme for three years in those years specifically for specific renewable energy projects, namely for the development of offshore wind energy.
i would like to stress, with regard to the new member states, that our cohesion programmes and funding for renewable energy are also available.
renewable energy is a high priority in our energy and climate protection policies, but also in reducing our dependence on fossil fuel imports.
only by working together will we be able to achieve our ambitious climate goals and also strengthen europe's competitiveness.
i am counting on a close partnership with our member states in the use of their different energy resources.
we will be presenting our proposal on energy efficiency in a few weeks time to you, to parliament, to the council and to the member states, on how we want to achieve the 20% increase in energy efficiency.
if you take the three targets you have set for us, 20% less co2 emissions, i can say that we are well on our way to that target.
we are also on the right track with 20% renewable energy, with different levels of progress in the member states.
austria, for example, had a 23 per cent share of renewable energy five years ago and is on track to reach 34 per cent in 2020. in contrast, for example, the uk has only had 1.3%, or malta even 0%, and basically start from there.
i am most concerned about the 20% target we must achieve in energy efficiency, that is, in intelligent energy saving and in the targeting of energy use.
i look forward to discussing this with parliament in the first quarter of next year when our proposal for the implementation of the 20% increase in energy efficiency can be presented to you.
in fact, on the subject of renewable energy and consumers, industry and the investor, both the technology investor and the financial investor, can do even more.
the question then is: what do i think of a european energy network?
otherwise we will not have security of supply, we will not have solidarity in an emergency, we will not be able to exchange storage capacity, we will not be able to install renewable energy in the best locations and bring electricity to the cities that need it, we will not have the competition that consumers want, and we will not have the internal market which has always been a foundation of the european community and which must also be put into practice in the field of electricity and gas.
i would like to congratulate the european commission for presenting just this month the new european disability strategy 2010-2020. but my question is: when and what specific programmes does the commission intend to develop on the basis of this strategy to facilitate the entry of disabled people into the labour market or to adapt the environment and infrastructure to them?
electronic equipment sooner or later becomes waste, which unfortunately still contains certain hazardous substances.
member states sometimes have difficulty dealing with such e-waste and it is therefore necessary to gradually move towards the so-called 'prevention rather than cure' principle.
i believe that such a memorandum of understanding would enable moldova to participate or to participate more actively in certain community programmes, which would allow for greater contacts in the fields of culture, education, environment, technology and science and for the strengthening of political relations.
this opens up new opportunities for the country to develop closer links with eu countries in the fields of culture, education, environment, technology and science.
as the market expands and new innovations emerge, equipment is replaced more quickly, leading to a rapid increase in the flow of waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee).
it is estimated that the amount of waste eee may increase to 12,3 million tonnes by 2020. waste eee contains some hazardous substances which, especially if handled improperly, may enter the environment and cause damage to human health and the environment.
i support the suggestions in the document that the european commission should strengthen the prevention of the use of harmful substances and periodically examine the prohibition of other hazardous substances and their replacement by more environmentally friendly alternative materials or technologies that ensure an adequate level of protection of people and the environment.
in fact, i think that any country in the european union is currently experiencing the greatest headache with its energy and i really want to thank the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs first of all for the fact that virtually all of us, representatives of all the countries, had the opportunity to put forward our proposals and that, as a result of the clever compromises, a very good document was actually produced.
i also think it's not so much about having ambitious plans as it is about having realistic plans, meaning real infrastructure, connections, real choice for people, which energy suppliers to buy energy from and, of course, a real market price.
i think that in the future we should also have greater control over the wishes and interests of the member states, because if we are to create a common energy market, those interests must be reconciled.
i congratulate the rapporteurs and thank the commissioner for his goodwill towards the energy strategy and policy.
we have ambitious goals to mitigate the climate change process.
when it comes to the environment, energy can be a partner, but it can also be an enemy.
in the european union, we are dependent on fossil fuels for energy.
as we become increasingly dependent on third countries for its resources, it is important not only to develop renewable energy but also to invest in research into energy efficiency.
the last session we discussed the allocation of additional funds for energy under the european economic recovery plan.
it may be appropriate to have the possibility to allocate funds from other financial mechanisms of the european union to energy efficiency in general.
renewable energy is important to us not only for climate change but also for energy security.
the bilateral agreements of some countries on projects such as nord stream raise concerns not only about environmental issues but also about the principles of solidarity, and therefore transparency is needed in this area.
the world will soon be hearing good news or, as has been the case recently, bad news about climate change again, this time from cancun.
while most scientists say that the time left for mankind to stop climate change is shrinking, the camp of the negative and the passive is not diminishing.
it's also important to do the homework, to prove that sustainable economic development, an environmentally friendly lifestyle is possible.
i would strongly support a unilateral eu move to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 30% by 2020. it is particularly important that cancun takes account of the newly formulated principle of climate justice.
if we fail to stop or at least limit climate change, the increasingly hot planet will burn the poorest countries and the poorest people first.
we should consider conducting a human rights assessment of non-eu countries that engage in trade relations with the eu and granting trade preferences to countries that have ratified and effectively implemented key international conventions on sustainable development, social rights and good governance.
it contributes in a constructive way to the debate we are having in europe on a credible common energy strategy.
energy security is certainly one of the key aspects of that strategy.
the eu must foster a common – if not single – energy policy.
the european commission must play a stronger role in efforts to develop alternative energy routes, first of all from azerbaijan and central asia, and from north africa and other countries as well.
other measures, such as improving energy efficiency, investing in nuclear energy and creating incentives for renewable energy technologies, are also required.
an essential piece in the puzzle is the liberalisation of the internal eu energy market.
that is why we should wholeheartedly support the initiative of president buzek and the former president of the commission, jacques delors, to establish a european energy community.
i voted in favour of this report on the european union's energy strategy, which covers a number of important subjects and important issues, and which deals with renewable energy, research, innovation, reducing pollution and, of course, improving energy security.
i particularly support the european parliament's view that energy networks, even if they are commercial in nature, should be regulated by transparent crossborder agreements which do not prejudice the interests of the member states.
the bilateral agreements and projects undertaken by some countries, such as the nord stream pipeline, raise doubts not only in environmental terms but also in the principle of common solidarity.
for this reason, i am in favour of external pipelines and other energy networks entering the territory of the european union being governed only by transparent intergovernmental agreements concluded in strict compliance with european union law.
there is an increasing number of cases of distortions of competition and the risk of environmental and social dumping in international trade.
this is to the detriment of companies and workers in the eu, who, unlike their trading partners established outside the eu, are required to adhere to higher social, environmental and tax standards.
moreover, the inclusion of human rights provisions and social and environmental standards in trade agreements can benefit international trade agreements in order to maintain political and social stability while facilitating trade itself.
it should be noted that european industrial and commercial companies are required to strictly comply with social and environmental protection rules.
i agree with the european parliament's position that if the european union is to comply with binding standards, it must also require the same from its trading partners, in particular from emerging economies, and promote quality and sustainability requirements, in particular for food products entering its territory, in order to protect fair and equitable trade.
- i voted in favour of the report because it should not be forgotten that european industrial and commercial companies must strictly respect social and environmental protection rules.
if the european union respects binding standards, it must also require the same from its trading partners, especially from emerging economies, and promote quality and sustainability requirements, in particular for food products entering its territory, in order to protect fair and equitable trade.
the importance of improving access to green goods and technologies for sustainable development purposes, the need to complete as soon as possible negotiations on the reduction or elimination of tariff and non-tariff barriers to green goods and services, in order to promote new forms of employment policies, the creation of jobs that meet the standards of decent work in the octs and the growth potential of european industry and small and medium-sized enterprises.
the audiovisual environment of the european union is exceptional, based on a balance between public and commercial broadcasters, which ensures a diversity of freely available programmes and promotes media pluralism, cultural and linguistic diversity, editorial competition and freedom of expression.
− 2010 is the european year of biodiversity, to draw attention to the threats to biodiversity around the world.
i believe that in the face of such doubts, the european commission must urgently carry out an independent study assessing the environmental and species-specific effects of the spread of genetically modified crops and toxins and ensure that such data are made public.
− i have supported this report because the beekeeping sector plays a strategic role in society by providing public services with environmental value.
it is therefore necessary to support the further development of european beekeeping, contributing to the conservation of biodiversity.
it is important to adopt a comprehensive and sustainable approach, including aspects such as rural development, climate change and biodiversity, in particular by promoting measures supporting the maintenance and development of flowering areas.
it is also important to support the european beekeeping sector more broadly and consistently through additional instruments under the future cap, including those that help to promote biodiversity, mitigate the impact of climate change, preserve the traditional national and cultural heritage that provides jobs for many european families, protect and improve the quality and the proper functioning of the beekeeping market.
the separate energy chapter in the lisbon treaty now provides a solid legal basis for developing energy initiatives based on sustainability, security of supply, interconnection and solidarity.
there are significant delays or unfinished implementation problems in the union in the field of energy legislation, which the commission has not taken a strong leadership role in addressing in order to address these shortcomings.
the domestic energy sector will require significant investments in new power plants, connections and transmission networks over the next decade, given that these investments will create a longer-term mix of energy types that will contribute to the creation of a sustainable and clean energy market.
it is very important that energy projects have clear multiannual funding, so that the baltic sea region is also integrated into the eu's single energy market and we pay for energy resources at the same level as other eu countries.
− i have endorsed this report and i would like to thank the rapporteurs, the shadow rapporteurs, for the first energy strategy since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon.
the strategy reflects the main challenges of energy solidarity and security of energy supply.
first, member states must implement the legislation already adopted in the field of energy.
secondly, a common energy market must be created, as well as a market for renewable energy sources.
thirdly, the trans-european energy infrastructure must be renewed and modernised.
our dependence on fossil fuels, whose resources are dwindling, makes it imperative to develop not only renewable energy but also to invest in energy efficiency, while reducing climate change.
a major weakness of current eu energy policy is the inability to channel eu funds into an area which, despite the recession, remains one of the top priorities of european governments, citizens and the public.
the consumer and the protection of his interests must be at the heart of energy policy, and the eu must strive to ensure favourable energy prices for consumers and businesses.
the copenhagen climate change conference failed to reach specific commitments.
further negotiations in germany and china have also failed to produce the expected results, raising hopes for a conference in cancún to agree on key decisions a comprehensive international agreement on action beyond 2012, in line with the latest scientific findings and the intention to halt global warming by 2020 and to achieve a global warming of no more than 2 degrees celsius by 2050 compared to 1990 levels.
i support the position expressed in the resolution that the european union must play a leading role in the climate change negotiations and actively contribute to the concrete results of the cancún climate change conference.
the european union is the only country that has adopted binding climate change mitigation targets and is going to commit to even higher ones, and it must be in the interest of the eu to see other countries commit to them, as the eu's economic growth and competitiveness depend on it.
− i voted in favour of this resolution because the european union must take a leading role in the climate change negotiations, because it is necessary to restore confidence in international climate change negotiations after the disappointing results of the copenhagen climate change conference.
i would like to stress that more efforts must be made to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by natural means, as this would encourage the conservation of biodiversity.
it is also essential that the climate change conference takes key decisions on financing, in particular on the added value of financing adaptation, forestry, resource efficiency, technology transfer, monitoring, settlement and verification.
− climate change is one of the biggest environmental problems of our time, and is also the cause of many natural disasters.
we have already committed ourselves to reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
so while setting ambitious targets makes us leaders in the fight against climate change, it does not contribute to the eu's goal of becoming the most competitive region in the world.
i voted against the final document because i am convinced that the eu can lead in reducing climate change and we all recognise our commitments to nature, but we must keep our targets as realistic as possible and move towards them in a consistent manner.
i support the calls by the authors of the resolution for kiev to continue to modernise the infrastructure for the supply of energy resources and to implement projects to diversify the supply of energy sources together with the eu member states.
security and energy are two areas where cooperation will take a long time to recover from some of the disasters in kiev.
i therefore sincerely hope that the next eu-ukraine summit in brussels on 22 november will bring about sustainable progress.
energy conservation and renewable energy are europe's priorities in the fight against climate change.
they can improve the eu's energy security and have a high potential for industrial development, innovation, regional development and job creation through the development of green energy.
international trade rules are crucial in the fight against climate change, but the world trade organisation (wto) agreement does not make direct references to climate change, food security and the millennium development goals.
i believe that the wto rules need to be amended to ensure that they are consistent with and comply with the commitments made under the kyoto protocol and multilateral environmental agreements.
this would ensure that all countries adhere to the same standards, as some countries currently have a greater competitive advantage in subsidising energy prices and not applying restrictions or quotas to co2 emissions and are not interested in joining multilateral climate change agreements.
− i voted in favour of this report because it sets out the strategic objectives and milestones that the european union could take further towards a better agreement on climate change.
i would like to stress that the european union has already taken the first steps in the right direction in the areas of illegal timber imports, biofuels and aviation emissions.
i would like to stress that the fight against climate change is a competitive indicator and that europe's priorities in this area are energy conservation and renewable energy, which can improve the energy security of the european union and which have a great potential in the areas of industry, innovation, regional development and job creation.
the european union must now be more vocal, united and effective, as the copenhagen climate change summit resulted in a disappointing agreement.
it is also essential that europe ensures that its trade policy does not undermine but helps to defend its social model and its environmental policy.
i agree with the european parliament's call for the european commission to improve its sustainability impact assessment model, as the economic, social, human rights and environmental impacts of trade negotiations, including climate change mitigation objectives, need to be properly reflected.
however, it generates very strong resistance when it is carried out by destroying jobs or by degrading living conditions, social rights and the environment.
europe, like the international community, is faced with the need to incorporate real guarantees of sustainable development and social rights into international trade rules.
linking trade rules to corporate social responsibility commitments would be an effective tool to help companies behave better and to help countries that sign trade agreements with the eu to comply with social and environmental standards.
in addition, a hostile environment must be created for traffickers.
disasters affecting people and causing economic and environmental damage are increasing in number, frequency and geographical scope worldwide.
− chbrb disasters, whether accidental or as a result of terrorist attacks, pose a serious threat to the safety and health of eu citizens and cause problems of environmental pollution and contamination.
therefore, there must be sufficient administrative capacity both at eu and at regional and local level in order to increase the added value of the cohesion policy and ensure the sustainability of actions.
− the european union's cohesion policy is the key instrument for ensuring sustainable regional development.
only in this way can we guarantee a safe environment for the victim and not restrict the victim's right to mobility.
cohesion policy is the eu’s key policy for enabling the regions to face growing challenges, such as climate change, population ageing, social migration, energy, or the economic and financial crisis, in the best possible way and hence to help increase the eu’s global economic competitiveness.
a sustainable regional and cohesion policy is a necessary factor in removing obstacles to economic development and in increasing competitiveness in the internal market and globally.
i agree with the rapporteur that the development of territorial cohesion policy will have a direct impact on the achievement of the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy and that it is necessary to analyse as soon as possible whether eu support to specific regions is based on concrete results that ensure the sustainability of regional policy.
indeed, cohesion policy is a key eu policy area, which will enable regions to tackle problems such as the economic and financial crisis, climate change, population ageing, social migration or energy in the best possible way.
− i voted in favour of this report because, in accordance with the principles of the treaties, cohesion policy, which aims to reduce disparities in the development of regions and to prepare them to face long- and short-term challenges (globalisation, demographic change, rural depopulation, climate change, protection of biodiversity) taking into account their specific strengths and weaknesses, is clearly of crucial importance for the process of european integration.
all regions must develop in a sustainable way.
it is welcome that the commission is being asked to examine and propose a methodology for action to promote rural-urban partnerships, combat rural depopulation and at the same time promote sustainable urban development, as almost 80% of the eu population live in cities.
although many legislative instruments have been developed in the field of energy efficiency and savings, not all of them are conducive to achieving the desired results.
i believe that the european commission, when reviewing the energy efficiency action plan, must take very seriously the fact that member states are not making sufficient use of the possibilities for energy savings, which does not allow for increased energy independence.
it is also necessary to set binding energy efficiency targets for individual member states and to monitor their implementation, otherwise the huge potential for energy savings will remain untapped.
i welcome the very important report by the rapporteur, mr bendtsen, on the review of the energy efficiency action plan.
it has achieved a number of such common approaches, and it is important to continue the work the european union has started at home on reducing co2 emissions.
energy efficiency is one of the most accurate ways.
this document is a set of measures that not only protect the environment but also help national economies.
the lisbon strategy 2011 aim of making the european union a competitive world and a knowledge-based economy, based on sustainable economic development and new jobs for better social cohesion, could be achieved through these programmes.
in addition, investments in green innovation, research and development would promote the use of renewable energy sources, which would help create new sustainable jobs in a wide range of sectors, including energy, manufacturing, transport.
− i voted in favour of this resolution and supported the eu budget for the year 2011. i welcome the agreement finally reached between the council, commission and european parliament and i hope it will be a sustainable budget that can be fully and predictably implemented from the beginning of the financial year.
only by ensuring a safe environment for citizens to submit proposals will we be able to win their trust and stimulate their interest in the work of the european union.
a comprehensive recovery therefore requires a common european strategy for sustainable growth and jobs, based on the necessary mandates and resources.
it is necessary to further develop the strategic partnership between africa and the european union in order to jointly address common challenges, promote sustainable economic growth, and expand cooperation in the fields of energy, trade, climate change.
the development of cooperation requires strong support for the fight against poverty, the protection of human rights, including social, economic and environmental rights, and the promotion of peace and security on the african continent.
i welcome the cooperation between africa and the eu in the field of renewable energy and the commitments to provide modern and sustainable energy services to the people of africa, to increase the use of renewable energy in africa and to improve energy efficiency across all sectors.
the eu and africa should join efforts to reduce carbon emissions from deforestation and forest loss and take other effective measures to combat climate change.
− i voted in favour of this resolution because we are committed to the environment, to finding cost-effective energy sources and to combating climate change.
sustainable development is needed, but economic development is also important.
you can't fight climate change without thinking about energy efficiency.
this requires detailed, realistic targets and penalties to ensure that energy consumption is not based on economic benefits alone.
energy efficiency is most relevant in buildings, as they have a huge potential for energy savings.
i therefore support the rapporteur's view that there is a need to focus on the renovation of existing buildings, as the number of new buildings in the eu is decreasing and most old buildings, if properly renovated, can make a very significant contribution to energy savings.
− while the adoption of the energy efficiency action plan in 2006 was a major step forward, the political and economic conditions have changed considerably since then.
it is therefore necessary to review the eu's energy efficiency policy and align it with current priorities and trends.
energy efficiency is the cheapest way to reduce co2 and other gas emissions.
i believe that a careful assessment of the strengths and weaknesses of the 2006 energy efficiency action plan is necessary to provide a basis for a review of eu energy efficiency policy.
it is becoming increasingly clear that the eu will not reach its 20% target and that more effective measures to promote energy efficiency are needed.
this would also reduce the eu's overall energy dependence.
− i voted in favour of this report because concrete measures are needed to implement the energy efficiency action plan, especially as it becomes increasingly clear that the eu will not achieve its 20% target for reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
i would like to point out that energy efficiency is the most cost-effective way to reduce co2 and other emissions.
it also provides a unique opportunity to support and create new jobs while reducing dependence on energy imports.
the european parliament therefore calls on the european commission to develop a new action plan for energy efficiency that takes into account the needs of vulnerable energy consumers.
calls on the member states to adopt appropriate measures and effective policies, such as national action plans or targeted social measures to reduce energy deficits, and to report regularly on their actions in this regard; the commission should also be responsible for providing all statistical data on the development of the main elements of the energy policy of the european union.
− i voted in favour of this report because it aims to increase energy efficiency by at least 20% by 2020 and to make progress in the transition to a sustainable and green economy.
it is well known that buildings have enormous potential for energy savings.
both countries are ahead of the eu in adopting legislation to promote energy-saving decisions.
the use of the financial instrument at european level should accelerate the establishment of national energy saving funds supporting energy efficiency treaties (eets).
energy efficiency agreements (eeas), where the customer purchases the guaranteed amount of energy saved, are beneficial because the investment is recovered over a period of 2 to 15 years.
this model creates jobs for smes, lowers energy bills for consumers and reduces emissions.
the eu will establish a european systemic risk board, which will be responsible for overseeing the macroprudential risk management of the financial system in order to avoid periods of severe financial distress, contribute to the smooth functioning of the market and ensure the sustainable contribution of the financial sector to the growth of the eu economy.