under the proposed directive, member states would be able to choose a maximum of two categories of particularly fraud-sensitive goods such as mobile phones and one category of services such as greenhouse gas emission allowances, on which major fraud circuits have been detected over the last summer out of a list of five categories.
of course, it is regrettable that an agreement could only be reached on one part of the proposal – on greenhouse gas emission allowances – but i am fully aware of the fact that this part was the one where the most urgent reaction was needed.
we saw in copenhagen how the rest of the world sees the eu's 'leadership' on climate change.
when i hear this ‘is it not time to pause?’, i must just say that the international climate negotiations in many ways have been put on hold for quite a long time.
what i simply fail to understand is that those who are sceptical of this climate issue cannot see that it will always be good for a planet whose population is approaching nine billion people, or even more by the middle of this century, to become much more energy efficient and much more resource efficient.
so that is where we should have common ground when it comes to the tools because that will anyhow benefit our environment, benefit our citizens and benefit our economies.
it will also benefit business to become very energy efficient, in a future where energy is becoming still more expensive.
well, as mentioned, there will be an analysis of the carbon leakage coming out before summer and, when it comes to the benchmark, we will continue the work with the benchmark.
how will you link with mr piebalgs to make really sure that this money goes to efficiency, to renewables and, in a decentralised way, to decentralised energy production combining this also with energy poverty?
what is worse is that the instruments the commission had – the ner300, the recovery plan and certain funds available today at the european investment bank – are more prioritised for those so-called low-carbon technologies that are the least efficient and present the highest risk.
so how can it be that we are designing a set plan – and earmarking money at eu level – that basically gives a lower share to renewables than the market is already uptaking today, while diverting the money to carbon sequestration and to nuclear fusion, which is not addressed in this paper but which receives by far the largest share of eu money?
fifty-five per cent of all co2 reductions will come from energy efficiency.
why did we allocate zero euro to energy efficiency in the eu recovery package?
thirty to thirty-five per cent of co2 greenhouse gas reductions will come from renewables, while at best only 10% will come from carbon sequestration and 10% from nuclear.
number one: energy efficiency; number two: renewables, because they reduce carbon without posing a risk; and then the other technologies.
this money could now be used more heavily for renewable energy and energy efficiency.
i am told that the commission's directorate-general for research is blocking the money, so it does not want to spend it on energy, but rather on ict and other areas.
secondly, it seems that at least 15% of the money from the stimulus programme is still available, and we have insisted in parliament that this money must be spent on energy efficiency, in particular on smart cities.
i particularly support the call for more effective controls and more coordination between the commission and the member states to ensure that imported foodstuffs comply with eu standards of quality and safety, environmental protection and social standards.
in other words, we must do everything at once: humanitarian so that there are no more needless deaths, reconstruction so that we can return to a somewhat normal life as soon as possible, the revival of the economy, which is essential to generate resources in a sustainable way, the strengthening of haiti's budgetary capacity in the very short term and a resolute commitment to decentralization.
thirdly, haiti's development must be assessed on the basis of the criteria of relevance, effectiveness, efficiency and sustainability.
fourthly, in order to ensure that development is sustainable, it is essential that haitians take ownership of development.
we could also mention, for the umpteenth time, the disputes over the few natural resources, including fertile land, in this region, as well as climate change, which also further amplifies the factors i have just mentioned.
what is closer to the crisis than making better use of europe's resources and increasing energy productivity?
and fourthly, in the field of research and development, there is also an urgent need to focus more on buildings, on the construction of low-cost zero-energy or low-energy houses and, very, very importantly, on new forms of organisation of building renovation.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
they are human concepts transferred to animals, which are killed in their natural environment by other carnivores or killed in slaughterhouses for human food.
what is the impact if a country like germany says that by 2050, all our buildings, new and old, will be zero-energy buildings?
finally, it is not an excess of power that should be feared, but rather an excess of weakness that should be combated, and in conclusion i would like to express the wish that all the authorities should be put in place as soon as possible and that a climate of trust should be established between all the partners concerned.
madam president, the successive conferences on the protection of biodiversity, rather than providing solutions, serve at best to update the poor record in this area.
this low-risk financial instrument must benefit from a favourable environment for its development.
in the spirit of sustainable development, one cannot be promoted at the expense of the other.
and i would invite the commission to look at the post-2013 period now because i believe that the measures which are going to be adopted now and which i hope will come into force shortly will be enough to make banana production sustainable in the countries concerned.
i hope that these measures will help to make this production sustainable and to ensure that those who cannot do so can find alternatives.
– madam president, today we celebrate a victory, albeit small, for green energy policy and a more european energy policy.
because – and some have said this – this is eur 150 million for the decentralised, the local, energy investments, where, on the other hand, we have billions – one billion for carbon sequestration, for example.
coal will remain an essential component of the global energy mix.
i hope that this discussion will help to identify possible new actions that are needed at the european union level on the issue of maintaining bee-keeping and the production of honey and bee products, but also to help maintain the health of bees and possibly prevent certain problems from arising because of diseases or pollution-related issues.
on the other hand, the proposal for a directive, which purports to encourage the development of renewable energy technologies, excludes waste from photovoltaic panels.
we do not need a new energy policy.
we have to implement the climate package, the third internal market package and the security of gas supply.
you mentioned energy efficiency.
we have a good record over the last five years in going against market domination and this must be a key focus of our european energy policy.
regarding renewables, our report is much more outspoken and your eu strategy and the energy 2020 strategy are very vague.
renewable technology is our biggest export market in all energy technologies.
i voted against the report on international trade policies in the context of the climate change imperatives, as i do not share the rapporteur's views and reasoning in any way.
its demand to increase greenhouse gas reduction targets regardless of the outcomes of international negotiations would put european companies at a significant competitive disadvantage.
the rapporteur's proposal to compensate for this disadvantage by protectionist measures such as a carbon tax at the union's borders and regulated minimum prices for co2 would widen the competitive deficit to other sectors down the industrial production chain.
the copenhagen conference a year ago showed that unilateral action by the european union leads to the failure of its climate policy.
the union must support its enterprises in their efforts to reduce their energy intensity while maintaining their international competitiveness.
i cannot follow the logic behind the european parliament's work on climate change.
many meps believe that the eu should do more and more to reduce emissions: -30%, -40%, -50%, while we are failing to implement the famous 2020 strategy!
citizens' initiatives will not help to solve the eu's economic, social, environmental and societal problems.
we all know that there can be no sustainable military exit from afghanistan without a civilian framework for stability that can keep the country together.
our efforts on development will only become sustainable once the afghan government becomes more accountable and inclusive.