we need to reduce our dependence on imported oil and gas sources, and we need to support investment in technologies that increase and facilitate the use of solar, wind, water and biomass energy resources.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
we must not forget the growing interdependence between russia and the eu in the energy sector and the serious problems caused by the energy supply disruptions of recent years.
to address these problems, both eu legislation on security of gas supply and eu-russia cooperation based on the yet to be concluded but necessary eu-russia agreement on an energy security early warning mechanism are needed.
i would like to stress that eu-russia cooperation in the field of energy must be based on the energy charter, which should be incorporated into the new eu-russia framework agreement in order to ensure transparent and mutually fair conditions for investment and equal access to the market.
the introduction of the euro will send a positive signal both to the countries working towards the introduction of the single currency in the near future and to the sustainability of the euro area as a whole.
the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of developing a european strategy for the protection of the environment.
i hope that the rural development element of the cap will be strengthened and that the rural development strategy will focus on rural communities, environmental improvement, agricultural modernisation and restructuring, cohesion, product sales and competitiveness, job preservation and creation in rural areas, as well as climate change, renewable energy and biodiversity.
if the eu does not step up pressure on all water users in the near future, environmental disaster is imminent.
this is a very important report and i am pleased that parliament's resolution reflects the concerns of member states which are isolated in the energy sector, as they are heavily dependent on supplies from third countries and lack infrastructure connections with other member states of the european union.
i hope that the adoption of this regulation will allow the common energy policy projects to develop further.
we are dependent in europe on energy supplies from third countries.
it is when we are actually talking about a common european energy policy, it is the need to create a functioning internal market to protect us.
i believe that the responsibility of oil companies should be increased so that the insurance and reserve fund for the event of an accident can easily cover all the costs of the disaster and all the possible environmental damage.
i supported this resolution, and was particularly struck by paragraph 15 of it, in which the european parliament 'calls on the commission to strengthen the potential of the structural funds by simplifying, making more flexible and improving procedures to help member states optimise social and employment policy opportunities and create sustainable growth'.
in times of economic crisis, we need to reform to improve the business environment, as this is the best way to stimulate the economy in the most direct way, thus creating new jobs.
i fully understand the need to provide a suitable environment for new mothers.
to achieve this objective, it is necessary to establish a fund in which all actors active in the marine environment should contribute financially.
the epp group will pay particular attention to the business environment for small and medium-sized enterprises and will contribute to developing precise ideas on the governance of the single market.
the second 'buck' is europe's heavy dependence on imported energy resources.
this new fund is designed to reduce energy consumption and increase domestic energy use such as wind, solar, water and biomass, thereby reducing total energy import dependency.
colleagues, i invite you all to support the creation of this new energy project support fund.
it will help our businesses through difficult times and it will reduce our overall dependence on imported energy.
of course, we cannot control such a climate catastrophe, but we can develop legislative proposals that could help european farmers to cope with the consequences of such a cataclysm.
- i fully agree that 146 million euros are needed for energy projects.
the eu's funding of energy projects is a good incentive for eu governments, local authorities and business leaders.
climate change in agriculture is a strategic issue that is important for the future of the european union and affects all european union citizens.
the isolation of the southern islands is even good for the well-being of the islanders, because it attracts tourists, but in the energy sector, isolation or island status is bad for the inhabitants.
energy isolation means that a monopoly usually has a special share in this market, which means that supplies are insecure and prices are high for the population.
as a result of climate change, natural disasters will become more frequent.
the preparation of a comprehensive document on nuclear safety requires the involvement of specialists with extensive experience in the use of nuclear energy and nuclear technologies.
saving energy.
by saving energy, we actually make money that we can invest not in third countries' economies but in our own.
so i would urge all colleagues to support the report by mr bendtsen on energy efficiency, which is a way in which we can really help our own economy.
− here are 10 principal guidelines for energy efficiency.
1. energy – efficient technologies; 2. transport technologies; 3. efficient use of energy; 4. energy transportation circuit security; 5. collection and storage of goods used for energy production; 6. the energy exploitation of countries – suppliers; 7. forming and distribution of energy resources; 8. anti-monopoly programmes for energy consumption and energy supply; 9. nanotechnologies in the energy supply sector and its development; 10. efficient energy legislation.