we are saying that because of the vulnerability of the emissions trading scheme, another change that was made was that when a member state is ready to adopt this system, the reverse charge should be mandatory for payments concerning greenhouse gas emissions, as it is important that there is coordination and immediate action between all member states.
so i think that these proposals will strengthen the credibility of the emissions trading scheme and its related payments.
finally, i think we should discourage eurozone members from the easy way out of financial engineering and fiscal one-offs, delaying real adjustments which we all know must come from credible and sustainable spending programmes.
– i strongly believe in sustainable development and do not question that the blue-fin tuna (bft) species is overexploited and needs protecting.
the eu does not need an international environmental body to assist it in controlling the fishing industry practised in its member states.
− in order for the european commission to be able to effectively perform its tasks with regard to the european energy policy, it must necessarily be kept well informed of any developments in the relevant sector.
president barroso has suggested using a global financial levy to fund environmental projects.
this question may be easier to answer if it goes to a financial stability cause in which the payers are obviously participating than if it is to go outside the financial sphere, such as to environmental projects or development aid.
besides poverty, which unfortunately is still with us, we are also concerned with global environmental problems like climate change, and now we are essentially talking about a sort of global insurance premium to compensate victims for the social and economic pain caused by financial catastrophe.
we must remember that the end goal of sepa was to create a truly domestic payments environment all around europe, and it is understandable that achieving such an ambitious goal is by no means easy, especially when considering the unfortunate necessity of finding compromises between the often conflicting interests of the pan-european banking community.
by delivering stability, by being credible in delivering stability in the medium and long run, we trust that we are contributing to sustainable growth and sustainable job creation.
− the maltese government is against the recommendation for second reading relating to labelling and standard product information of the consumption of energy and other resources by energy-related products.
the reason given is that the nationalist government disagrees with an explanation statement in the report, in particular with the following phrase: ‘construction products with significant impact on the consumption of energy shall be also included in the priority list.’ it is inconceivable that the government does not agree to this recommendation on this basis.
it could have agreed with the recommendation and made it clear that it had a reservation in relation to construction products which have a significant impact on the consumption of energy.
it is useless for the government to appear to be in favour of energy efficiency when the potential savings could be achieved through the labelling of some of these products given that buildings account for 40% of total energy consumption in the european union.
in the final analysis, the system that prevails is the one that manages to strike a balance between a vibrant and competitive economy that incentivises innovation and job creation, and one that provides consumer protection and all the social and environmental safeguards required by the citizen in a spirit of cooperation and solidarity .
the strategic report on the progress reports of the 27 member states on the implementation of the current programming period, which i recently presented, also shows how sustainable and useful earmarking is, since 63 billion of the 93 billion euros allocated so far have been spent on the lisbon objectives, i.e.
the policy recommendations that we made in 2006 focused on the changes brought about by the reform of the pact in 2005. the 2008 emu 10 report is consistent with what was written at the time, for instance on the relevance of long-term sustainability, on the need to set incentives in good times and on the positive role of national fiscal frameworks.
with an ageing population, the challenges for member countries to ensure sustainability in the area of social assistance will be ever-growing.
the low birth rate and an ageing population mean that policy changes are needed to ensure fiscal sustainability, and the increase in demand for pensions and medical aid must also be taken into account.
mr president, never before has the importance of the long-term sustainability of public finances been brought to the forefront so dramatically.
but now that many member states of the european union, as well as those in the euro area, have reached this unsustainable situation, it is not the case to simply reverse the situation and do so in the shortest possible time, ignoring the serious economic environment in which we find ourselves.
but we must aim for a different kind of job creation than in the past – a more sustainable one, not only in ecological terms but also economically, socially and financially sustainable.
it is about restoring a competitive european union capable of ensuring the sustainability of its unique social model – a competitive eu that is a global leader in terms of tackling climate change, an eu that invests more in its people through more and better education and, finally, an eu that strengthens social cohesion by combating poverty.
at the root of the crisis you will find a fundamental malfunctioning of the financial sector, starting with the banking sector, the correction of which is also essential if we want to start a sustainable recovery from this situation.
we owe it to the citizens to provide them with solutions to exit the current crisis and enhance the coordination of economic policies, while at the same time preparing a return to smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth.
in our battle to restore confidence in the eurozone with measures to improve the sustainability of public finances, through tighter statistical governance, my opinion is that estonia will be a real asset to the eurozone.
this puts estonia firmly in the group of eurozone countries which are more fiscally disciplined and prepared to take the tough choices to maintain sustainable public finances.
we need to work together in order to ensure the sustainability of public finances and thus sustainable growth and job creation in europe.
the measures taken by the greek government illustrate their commitment to implement the strategy to reform the statistical system, to stabilise their public finances and to restore long-term sustainable economic growth.
– before the final adoption of the eu 2020 strategy, the european council should strengthen the structure of the eu 2020 and define a clear set of political priorities, realistic targets and deadlines that ensure the achievement of a green, knowledge-based, and social market economy in europe by 2020. the new strategy should be a reflection of the current economic situation, a reproduction of the lessons learned from the lisbon strategy, and seeeking to achieve sustainable growth and prosperity for all european citizens.
we need a new holistic and common approach, one which fully integrates citizens’ and consumers' concerns, by giving them the opportunity to maximise their potential and to make full use of the benefits of a sustainable european union.
− one major problem aviation has in reducing co2 emissions is that it has a very limited abatement potential, even though one is here talking of 2% of the man-made emissions ( these are 3% of all emissions given that nature emits 97%).
what is being suggested in the report does not bode well for a sustainable future for transport, particularly if one intends to guarantee the freedom of movement enshrined in the treaty for those people like the maltese not having access to an alternative mode of transport to reach the rest of the eu and other parts of the world.
it is important that the economic and social crisis does not deter member states from moving towards a more sustainable, low-carbon, resource-efficient economy.
the commission should place special emphasis on green jobs, especially since the oecd has demonstrated that the environmental goods and services sector has the potential to provide jobs for a wide range of skills and abilities, including low-skilled workers.
while a new european employment strategy will define ‘green jobs’ in broad terms, distinctions should be made between the likes of pollution control, recycling, water resource management, nature conservation, the production of environmental and renewable energy technologies, and environmental r&d.
only then will we be able to develop the job potential of a new sustainable economy.
but the gozitan people should be protected by this resolution which calls for a european framework for mountain regions and islands; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's policy on the environment and sustainable development.
overall, it is important that seoul accelerate efforts to implement the framework to promote stronger, sustainable and balanced growth.
in terms of substance, the union contribution is strong, sustainable and balanced growth based on: (1) growth-friendly and differentiated fiscal consolidation plans; (2) the europe 2020 strategy for the structural reforms needed to support, in particular, job creation; (3) the financial sector and markets reform agenda; (4) the strengthening of the union's economic governance.
the aim is not to have a thorough discussion of the climate at the european council, since the environment council adopted a very comprehensive text of conclusions setting out the european position on 14 october.
progress towards an ambitious post-2012 climate change regime is becoming ever more urgent and to this end the european union continues to advocate a step-by-step approach that builds on the kyoto protocol and the outcomes of the copenhagen conference and paves the way for a comprehensive, legally binding global framework, taking into account the policy guidelines set out in the copenhagen outcome document.
this should be done within the framework of a broader arrangement to which all major economies would subscribe, which would reflect the ambition, the effectiveness of international action and respond to the need to ensure environmental integrity as a matter of urgency.
at the summit with russia, the european union intends to express its full support for the partnership for modernisation which will strengthen our cooperation in all areas, including key areas such as innovation and energy.
i will concentrate on what i believe are the most important topics: economic governance in the european union, of course, and externally – apart from the very important summit with the us and also the summit with russia – what i believe are the critical summits: the summit in seoul of the g20 and also the cancún conference on climate change.
the reform of our economic governance is a cornerstone of our sustainable recovery and our credibility.
let us not forget that in the meantime we are putting in place the most concrete and effective system for cutting emissions in the world.
this is our strongest card and the closer we get to implementing the new emissions trading system, the stronger it gets.
we have come forward with europe 2020. that is, i want to remind you of that point, a strategy for growth because growth – smart, inclusive sustainable growth – is the answer.
moreover, a new holistic and inclusive approach has to be adopted whereby citizens’ goals, particularly those related to economic, social, health and environmental concerns of citizens, are fully integrated into the economy.
− even though the european union is one of the richest areas in the world, one still finds a high percentage of european citizens facing the problem of income poverty, limiting their ability to afford the basics in relation to food, health, energy and education.
the transitional system, which has been in place since 1993, is constantly being extended, and this situation, as we all know, is not sustainable and a lasting solution needs to be found.
− the directive on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings aims at creating a more hostile environment for the human traffickers by punishing the criminals and guaranteeing stronger prevention and protection of the victims.