regarding the energy memorandum of understanding, this is very important, but iraq is not a unitary state.
there needs to be an integrated approach concerning energy, the economy and stability.
shouldn't you be putting more energy into that?
of course, we are disappointed in the outcome of the climate summit, but it is important to remember that we have made historic progress in certain areas: i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report.
they must take in the world: with strong climate diplomacy on its way to mexico.
mr president, let's be very clear about this: copenhagen has failed and there are actually three big losers in copenhagen: the united nations, the european union and the climate.
that means not just looking at the united states and china, but especially those countries that want to do something about the climate.
then third: the climate.
2 degrees, according to science, means that rich countries have to reduce their co2 emissions by 40%.
i would like to hear your response to that, because that is the only way to show leadership and make 2010 the year of the united nations, the european union and the climate.
as sometimes was proudly said during the run-up to the climate summit, there is no plan ‘b’.
it would be an exclusive competence for the european union in climate policy and climate agreements.
that is why we in europe must look at how we can also use european money to encourage new technologies, for example by not always seeing agriculture as a problem but by encouraging the construction of carbon-neutral greenhouses which can also provide energy.
what does the absence of the convention mean for our legislative framework, namely the package we have adopted for, among other things, carbon trading?
climate is not a hype and it is, fortunately, being embedded in the eu 2020 strategy of the new commission.
i would also point out that we have now turned our own instruments and resources of the european union towards climate priority.
30% of the regional funds funds go to climate and energy related projects.
this morning, president barroso said, with the treaty of lisbon in hand, that it is the commission which speaks on behalf of the european union in the field of the environment.
but after all the positive energy that had been put into it, the shadow side of turkey also came to light.
- we cannot afford to ignore the loss of biodiversity.
that could have been my words, but it is the words of the european commission, of commissioner dimas, to be precise, when he presented a communication on biodiversity last month.
and i assume that the new commission will share this view and will attach equal importance to biodiversity.
given the european commission's commitment to biodiversity, i am surprised that it is the commission which is fully committed to the conservation of species and the reduction of biodiversity loss, while the commission itself does not have the courage - or does not yet have the courage - to propose explicitly the inclusion of an endangered species such as bluefin tuna in annex i to cites.
2. the criteria of sustainability and 3. the establishment of further criteria for the integration of this type of construction projects into society; many of the current sites do not meet the criteria, are bad housing in bad places.
and the social groups involved must also be involved in this interpretation, because this will lead to a better product and a better sustainable result.
a turkish scientist recently spoke of a poisoned climate.
i'm glad there's still an open climate that a scientist like that can openly acknowledge.
that means we need a small and mediumsized enterprise rich in knowledge, innovation and sustainable technology.
let us look at energy policy and make it more geared to countries like belarus and ukraine.
mr president, sustainability is rightly a key concept in the green paper.
sustainable in the sense of future-proof for fisheries, as well as good for the environment.
this is the only way to ensure a sustainable future for the fishing industry.
two years ago we were persuaded to accept the recovery package and the state aid measures with the promise that it would be used to bring about the long overdue shift to a sustainable knowledge economy.
if governments cannot be controlled by the public over their spending, a climate of greed and self-enrichment can develop.
sustainable growth in poor countries offers opportunities to people who don't have them yet.
i believe that without a well-interconnected infrastructure, in transport or in energy or in telecommunications, it is very difficult to speak about europe.
employment on shore, in banks, shipyards, insurance companies, logistics companies, training and educational institutions, companies active in the field of innovation and improvement of environmental performance would be dealt an insurmountable blow by the departure of our fleet.
first of all, the environment, that's crucial.
the environmental performance of shipping also needs to be improved and i have set out a number of directions in my report.
in particular, the levy on bunker fuel with poor environmental performance is an idea which the commission hopes will be taken up again.
such a concept is a bonus for good environmental behaviour.
if you do well in the environmental field, you give that an advantage, and if you do badly, you will soon find that your wallet is empty.
the first of these zones is located at the nucleus of the emissions, where total restriction of operations will be maintained, given that it is impossible to guarantee its safety.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transport sector is not affected by the effects of climate change.
that is good for the economy, good for the climate and also good for the stability of this society, because it badly needs it.
the question now is for you both: how will this be translated into a sustainable and stable reconstruction of the island?
the european funds can now be spent more quickly and easily across the board, not only on the major projects but also on the smaller ones, always for the sake of innovation, improving the environment, urban development, etc.
the greeks must reintroduce the drachma, because the eurozone is not sustainable for them.
the budget plans for the coming year must be in line with that 2020 strategy and on other points too this parliament will expressly play its institutional role, in the interests of sustainable economic growth and in the interests of jobs for our citizens.
strengthening preventive action and improving the sustainability of public finances in the member states are crucial.
we don't have time to waste.
no offense to the kindness, but the environment is being made unaffordable by left-wing politicians today.
the consumer pays for himself and that is obscured by all sorts of government subsidies, but the environment is enormously expensive and unprofitable if all the subsidies brought in by the taxpayer are eliminated.
i support it because energy efficiency in cars must be regulated by ambitious legislation on co2 emissions, technology must not be chosen.
i would ask you to include this in the next communication, because it is the only way to manage mobility and possibly tax energy.
president, commissioner, yesterday this room was packed with mayors who signed a covenant of mayors to really go for that low-carbon economy.
another point on which we can do something is the high level of carcinogens in the environment.
that leads to sustainable growth here and in developing countries.
for the ppe group at a time of crisis and debate on how to maintain a sustainable society and competitiveness, we are talking about an apparent detail which, in my view, is at the heart of the concerns of many people.
mr president, all of us in this house want a europe with sustainable economic growth, with enough jobs for our citizens and with healthy businesses.
in short: it needs to be smarter, it needs to be greener, it needs to be more sustainable, and it needs to be more inclusive.
today we are talking about the long-term economy of europe and how we can achieve sustainable growth there.
the commission proposes either vague targets, or targets that are too low, for example 20% less greenhouse gas emissions, which is not enough to stimulate green innovation.
at the moment, we are mainly subsidizing more greenhouse gas emissions.
where is the money for innovation and where is the agricultural budget for sustainable agriculture?
entrepreneurship, excellence and a sustainable future of the european economy can only be fostered if we are willing to invest in knowledge.
it shows how the sustainability of public finances can be undermined in the short term.
the same applies to climate change: developing countries have little to do with the causes of climate change, but they are suffering the most from its effects.
first of all, it means that the budget aimed at supporting developing countries in their fight against the effects of climate change should be additional money.
the ‘fast-start’ climate finance package should not come at the expense of existing development cooperation programmes.
why is it that everyone finds color codes on, say, energy labels for homes, cars, or electronics normal, but it's peculiar on food?
− i support all efforts to make rail freight more effective, because of its environmental advantages compared to road freight.
i support efforts to make rail freight more effective, because of its environmental advantages compared to road freight.
we also need to reduce the ecological quality effectively, so let us follow it closely.
i think it is of the utmost importance that we conclude a comprehensive and legally binding agreement that goes beyond mere economic cooperation or new energy agreements.
i would not only have liked to discuss this initiative with you in advance, but i think that the wto, the energy charter and the fight against corruption are much more important for the modernisation of the russian economy.
because we also know that climate change is causing rivers to process more water more often in less time.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
as rapporteur for an opinion, i would like to make a few comments, because in the future there will probably be more and more aquaculture and more and more pressure on people, animals and the environment.
many forms of aquaculture still have negative impacts, such as habitat destruction, use of chemicals, depletion and salinization of drinking water and agricultural land, disruption of biodiversity through fish and farmed fish escaping, and the displacement of indigenous populations in third countries from their habitats for industrial aquaculture.
a sustainable certification system for aquaculture products is needed, certifying, inter alia, environmental and social impacts, food safety, animal welfare and economic and financial issues.
we just have to make sure that this becomes a sustainable and animal-friendly aquaculture.
there is a clear and sustainable cycle: the fish produce manure, the manure feeds the algae, the coral and the lamb's ear.
that's how you get a sustainable, closed loop and new business.
this sham parliament, mr verhofstadt, mr schulz and mr barroso, is therefore completely unnecessary, because it is simply a waste of money.
the report on the sustainable future of transport discusses the importance of the transport sector for the european economy and the completion of the internal market.
this sounds promising at first, but unfortunately the report turns into a list of many left-wing hobbies: environmental protection, carbon reduction, improvement of social conditions, improved working conditions, you can't think of it that crazy or it's being quoted.
now, after the failure of the copenhagen climate conference, europe is making a desperate unilateral attempt to reduce the use of fossil fuels.
think of environmental aspects, animal welfare aspects and ethical concerns.
on the other hand, we must be very careful about allowing new technologies unless we are sure that these new technologies are not harmful to health, the environment or animal welfare.
this is why, for example, three dirty coal plants in england are now causing more air pollution in the netherlands than the 11 dutch plants.
my appeal: think beyond the environment and climate and consider countries where so-called 'legal' deforestation robs the local population of their livelihood.
last week dutch television showed how our energy companies are profiting from the extraction of coal in south africa.
i agree with the environmental and climate goals and also advocate for the protection of human rights.
the highly polarised political climate does not help the albanian people to get closer to europe.
is the albanian government doing enough to combat the kanun's waste?
a faster breakthrough to renewable energy, that's what we need.
can the international community, can the european union offer any prospect of a future in a social climate of impunity where, moreover, the kyrgyz and uzbeks consider themselves to be the victims par excellence of a veritable orgy of murderous violence?
animal welfare and the environment are also high values.
this will prevent further intensification of agriculture and make it more realistic to meet environmental requirements.
food security, landscape, environment, animal welfare, climate, etc.
environmental and social conditions must also be taken into account in my view.
for example, the liberal group is always in the forefront of demands for more and more environmental and biodiversity protection and less use of plant protection products.
on behalf of the green group, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr de gucht, for his report and for the work he has done in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
i always assume that if you believe in your own legislation, you are not afraid of debate, and that debate can also create a climate in which the ngos - because that was the point - can flourish equally in israel and debate can only remove anxiety.
the commission has already taken the initiative of the european parliament's committee on agriculture and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection to discuss the future of the potato starch sector in europe.
the energy.
− with this own-initiative report, the european parliament is sounding the alarm about our biodiversity, our species richness and our ecosystems.
that is unacceptable, of course, not only from a purely biological or ecological point of view.
finally, it is also in our economic interest to invest in biodiversity.
healthy ecosystems provide things like clean water, carbon sequestration, better harvests and more raw materials, and so on.
our goal of halting the decline in biodiversity by 2010 is far from achieved.
environmental policy and budgetary policy are too much on their own right now.
biodiversity is not just a matter of european nature policy, but should also be part of other policy areas such as fisheries, agriculture, regional policy and so on.
overall, we support the european commission's proposals and ambition to halt the loss of biodiversity by 2020. that is the absolute minimum level of ambition.
but restoring biodiversity must also be part of our ambition.
and of course, attention to biodiversity needs to be stepped up at the international level.
however, in the case of new plans, impact assessments are of great importance, both for the ecological and for the socioeconomic consequences, not as a delaying technique, not as an excuse, but to create clarity.
finally, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for the good cooperation which has led to the unanimous adoption of this report in the committee on the environment, just as i would like to thank commissioner potočnik, who cannot be here today because he is in new york for the biodiversity.
i would also like to thank the rapporteur for her work on this report, which has a sad reason: the failure of our own european biodiversity strategy.
this strategy, adopted in 2000, should have halted the loss of biodiversity.
and not even when it comes to the new biodiversity strategy.
otherwise the new biodiversity strategy will be just as much a paper tiger as the previous one.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
biodiversity in europe and the world is declining.
biodiversity is the heart of god's creation and the natural capital of this world.
biodiversity is the basis of our food and the raw materials we use and ensures a stable climate.
the commission, the member states and this parliament must speak with one voice to achieve the ambitious 2020 target of halting biodiversity loss plus a global vision that ensures ecosystems are protected, valued and restored.
i would like to thank mrs de lange, the president-in-office, for her report on european biodiversity.
europe is not doing enough to halt the loss of biodiversity.
as a parliament we support the commission in its efforts to halt the loss of biodiversity by at least 2020. but that does mean something, because otherwise we will have to conclude again in 2020 that the objective has not been achieved.
all these matters will be dealt with in the financial perspective for the coming period and i assume that mr de lange and mr van dalen, who have spoken such fine words about biodiversity, will also give substance to those words when we talk about the financial perspective.
the point is that we as europe really need to strengthen our biodiversity policy and protect it.
because only if a consumer is willing to pay a fair price for goods produced in a sustainable and fair way will there be any progress in this discussion.
we can thus have a debate, not on guidelines or objectives, but on the practical evaluation of how contacts have been established, for example between universities, between hospitals, schools, in the field of the environment and water, etc.
- i am addressing myself to my colleagues stevenson and reul, who say that the environment committee has acted too quickly.
as the environment committee, we've been working on this for a long time.
if we do it smartly, we will be able to agree on measures that will not only safeguard biodiversity but also counter the effects of climate change, help achieve the millennium development goals - we have already said a few things about this - and create green jobs, including in the european union.
the last point i would like to make is the mainstreaming of biodiversity into other policy areas.
just as we as the european parliament called for such coherence in the field of environment and other policies in the recent report on biodiversity in the european union, we must also mainstream biodiversity internationally.
biodiversity is not just an environmental issue or a millennium development goal issue, but in other areas, such as the wto, non-trade considerations such as biodiversity need to be much higher on the agenda.
commissioner, i know you have a warm heart for biodiversity.
we all want to stop the loss of biodiversity, but in the real world this hunt for resources is frustrating our goals.
therefore, the only way to stop the loss of biodiversity is by radically changing our behaviour.
we need biodiversity for food, shelter, medicines, clean air, water, and so on and so forth.
go through facebook to stop biodiversity loss and support this campaign.
in two weeks' time, mr president, we shall all be going to nagoya, japan, to talk about biodiversity.
but it is clear that we must stop the loss of biodiversity in any case.
if we don't act, the estimated cost will be over four trillion dollars by 2050. so, inaction is not an option, and that is why i am disturbed that the new dutch government wants to cut one billion euros in development aid, one of the most necessary financial resources to combat biodiversity loss in developing countries.
the reform of the agricultural policy must go beyond a sustainable agricultural policy and must be a strong one.
i therefore call on the commission to translate what is agreed in nagoya into measurable, verifiable proposals and to develop a long-term vision so that in 2011 we do not have to say again that we have not been able to halt the loss of biodiversity.
- i should like to begin by thanking commissioner potočnik for his commitment to the conservation of biodiversity.
i know from the commissioner that he is also working to ensure that the term biodiversity is clearly reflected in that policy.
they will then decide which species are to be placed on the market, and that is certainly not in the interests of biodiversity.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the manufacture of certain products.
and indeed, mr president, we hold up the mirror and say: 'is it necessary to waste our citizens' money on expensive service cars, even in private time?
the council has maintained agriculture, cohesion - where the future does not lie - and is cutting back on knowledge, innovation, sustainability and energy.
we do need to increase the investment we need in knowledge, innovation, sustainability and energy and that gives that higher budget.
goals on innovation, on climate, on poverty eradication, on employment.
that means something for our agricultural policies and for our cohesion policies, and here we expect some good and ambitious reforms from the commission to make sure that agricultural policies and cohesion policies really deliver on poverty eradication, greenhouse gas reduction, innovation and unemployment.
because, let's face it, that red mud doesn't qualify as hazardous waste.
your environmental disaster has drawn the attention of the world to hungary.
waste is the raw material for the future and should not be a threat, but a chance.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: but member states should be at least as ambitious in their efforts to protect people, the environment and industry, and to do more to recycle and reuse waste.
therefore, together with others, hungary and the commission and other member states wherever possible also call for the waste directive to be repealed, and for industrial waste and environmental safety to be properly implemented.
has the energy problem, the resource problem or the ageing problem been solved?
all partnerships should focus on the efficient and intelligent use of natural resources, starting with the most urgent problems: energy, the running out of raw materials.
president, with the new treaty of lisbon, energy has become a shared responsibility between the eu and the member states.
the second energy package, which is our basis here, clearly deserves to be supplemented and the report gives a good analysis of it.
the percentage targets for both climate and energy are sufficiently well established.
two accents: energy efficiency, a great opportunity for us.
mr president, my colleague said that the public does not understand the climate debate.
mr president, next week the un climate conference will be held in cancún.
it is a total insult to the eu to be involved in this, because there is nothing wrong with our climate.
and what is the purpose of the climate summit?
well, reducing the carbon footprint.
what was the purpose of the climate summit again?
leave climate policy to truly independent specialists.
the 2° target, or even the 1.5° target, is mentioned in the copenhagen agreement, and if we want to achieve that, we really need to take the lead now in reducing our own emissions, by more than -20%, but also the money for the first three years.
we can therefore commit ourselves to a reduction target of more than 20%, because that creates opportunities for more green jobs, for innovation and for sustainable economic growth.
we do not want to pay for global warming and the problems it brings to africa, and we do not want to face a country that is destabilizing, a continent that is destabilizing, and large groups of refugees?
- the causes and consequences of climate change are based on a theory, but it seems to be more like a religious belief.
in fact, there is a call for true climate diplomacy, that is, the european union wants to do business, but only under strict climate-neutral conditions, just as the european union wants.
export means transport, and more transport is very bad for global co2 emissions.
no wonder the majority of citizens and businesses are not waiting for european climate targets.
meanwhile, europe is going further and further, formulating yet another series of absurd climate goals.
but i would like to go one step further and indeed, as mr mauro says, to make a priority of the partnership agreement with iraq, which is now being discussed, a safe environment for iraqi christians in iraq.
elections such as those which took place in burma this month, even if held in a climate of fear and repression, are often used by regimes to claim legitimacy and to suggest that a democracy is in place.
i have no problem with member states cooperating on an equal level in the case of a cbrn event – and in the case of an environmental disaster resulting from such an incident, it is crucial – but i do have a huge problem with this report potentially opening the door for militarisation of the eu.
i have no problem with member states cooperating on an equal level in the case of a cbrn event – and in the case of an environmental disaster resulting from such an incident, it is crucial – but i do have a huge problem with this report potentially opening the door for militarisation of the eu.
everyone knows that by 2050 europe must have reduced either 80%, or as we say 95%, of its greenhouse gases.
the biggest gain is made by using even less energy.
it is therefore absurd that we already know that europe is not going to achieve the energy saving objective and that we are focusing on achieving reduction targets and renewable energy, especially from the commission.
but the goal of saving energy, of using less energy, we are not going to achieve that.
for example, the built environment.
this uses about 40 percent of our energy, 99 percent of which is existing buildings.
they need to be renovated to be more energy efficient.
the rate in europe right now is 1.4 percent a year, which means it will take us more than 60 years to replace that entire built environment.
we must make sure that we are making much faster profits in, for example, the built environment.
they have to spend less energy.
it's the people who end up paying less for energy use.
it is an excellent report because it is a report which achieves several things at once: environmental objectives, co2 reduction, but also in terms of our production and the other objectives to remain competitive.
it helps the environment and it helps the wallet.
three points, though: the first concerns those national energy efficiency action plans.
the money that is available is not even being used for energy efficiency in most countries.
and a third point - and i agree with mr swoboda on this too - is that we must involve citizens, local authorities and businesses more in this energy saving, such as the labels, the agreement with the mayors, the agreements with industry.
- the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons and their families moving within the community (com (97) 0406 - c4-0173/97).
the real threat and the climate of fear were underlined in the october and november issues of rolling stone, a local newspaper, which listed the names and personal details of people alleged to be homosexual, inciting readers to harm or hang them.