a number of members also raised the issue of the memorandum of understanding on energy and its importance and significance.
just a little bit more about energy cooperation too.
we see this as being part of developing a comprehensive and integrated energy policy for iraq.
this is about the supply and security of supply between iraq and the european union, and should of course include the development of renewable energy, particularly solar and wind energy, and to also enhance energy efficiency measures within iraq.
we do want to see an improvement in the environment, as i have indicated, to allow the deployment of the election observation mission with the participation of meps.
however, we can see, with the coming elections and with the opportunity for greater cooperation – an opportunity for the european union, with its value system and the things we are particularly concerned about: human rights, the rights of minorities, the issues of capital punishment, developing strong cooperation on energy security and supply and working more closely with the government, while being clear about the expectations we have – a future for iraq that will be peaceful and democratic.
since the last review in 2005, a lot has happened: the economic crisis, the food crisis, the energy crisis, the economic crisis, and the changes that have occurred as a result of the climate negotiations and their impact on developing countries.
what are the key priorities from spain's point of view in order to renew europe's economic strength, to make the economy sustainable from the point of view of competitiveness, from the environmental and social point of view?
in the last ten years - and i will refer to this as one of the first areas where we must take steps and make changes - our energy dependence has increased by nine points: we have gone from 44% to 53% of the energy dependence of the european union as a whole.
it represents almost the same as what all the countries of the european union spend on public investment in r & d & i. we must change our energy dependence, reduce it, because without this our economic weakness will increase.
in the energy field, progress has been made, but not as we would like.
we must definitely create a common energy market which will strengthen the whole union and the union's economy.
two key elements are energy interconnections - the expectations set in 2002 have not been met - and a common regulatory framework to consolidate a common energy market.
if we achieve energy interconnections in southern, eastern and northern europe, if we make it a top priority, giving powers to the commission, we will see our energy dependence reduced and we will encourage the development of renewable energies, which by their very nature require versatility in energy distribution.
ladies and gentlemen, europe will not win the leadership of economic competitiveness unless it takes a decisive stand on energy interconnection in all its key areas and a common market.
the third area is the sustainable economy or industry.
i will give you just one example of what we consider to be a priority in the fight against climate change: we want to set in motion, and promote with the commission, a plan for the development of electric vehicles.
if we are committed in an integrated way in this industrial area, as europeans, to a joint, shared vision and a common strategy for the electric car, we will contribute to reducing our energy dependence, to the fight against climate change and to technological innovation that will undoubtedly open up the electric vehicle, which will also be directly related to the information and communication technology industry.
fourthly, the fourth central element of this sustainable economy and of the economic renewal that the european union needs is education, above all the university, the research area.
we trust the commission for this 2020 strategy, which must also include a reflection on the future of the common agricultural policy, a decisive policy in terms of environmental protection, food security and the income of many citizens in the european union.
first, shared security; second, energy; third, the promotion and extension of trade openness and technology transfer; and, fourth, aid to development cooperation, where the european union has and must maintain a strong ethical leadership in the world.
and so, as i said earlier, the 2020 economic strategy must be economically, socially and environmentally sustainable.
for this social sustainability, i propose that we renew a great social pact in europe with companies and workers, a great social pact in the development of the 2020 strategy.
the challenges we were facing before the crisis are still there, if anything they were reinforced: how to cope with the consequences of aging, of our demographics, how to remain competitive in a global world, how to secure the transition to a more sustainable economy, to mention just a few.
to offer a clear direction towards a competitive, innovative, sustainable, socially inclusive market economy, able to prosper in the global marketplace.
that means using knowledge and creativity to generate real value in our economies, unlocking innovation and promoting its market uptake from icts to new energy, clean technologies for example.
it also means an economy shaped for the future a sustainable and resource-efficient economy that is also productive and innovative.
let me just mention one of many examples: the follow-up to the copenhagen conference on climate change.
we should also intensify our efforts namely through our internal policies of promoting the upgrading and modernisation of the industrial base of our economy, the innovation and the development of new clean technologies, energy efficiency and the energy security agenda, also by putting this matter at the top of the transformational agenda for europe.
in particular, i have heard him express his reluctance to increase public spending indiscriminately and to promote a business-friendly environment.
i agree that we must create an environment favourable to business, economic activity, initiative and competition.
i have in fact insisted in my speech on the need for a common energy market, a european digital market.
and that is nothing more than promoting economic freedom, initiative and trade between europeans in the field of energy, by promoting competition, because it lowers prices and because it promotes technological innovation, or in the digital field, which i have emphasized a lot today in this chamber, because we are playing a big part in the future, insofar as we promote electronic commerce and insofar as we promote the transmission of all the products generated today in the field of communication technologies, which are increasingly taking up a larger percentage of gross domestic product.
our proposal, our programme, is therefore that the 2020 strategy should promote the absence of barriers in europe and foster competition, innovation and the business environment.
the economic environment is therefore favourable to entrepreneurship, initiative and innovation, but not to financial and real estate speculation.
i have spoken throughout my speech about sustainable growth, environmentally sustainable growth.
i take note of your suggestion that environmental sustainability should be an essential dimension in the social pact and of course i am firmly convinced that the future of innovation, competitiveness and productivity is centred on what is called the 'green economy', coupled with the potential of communication technologies and of course with a common or single vision of energy, as mr sosa wagner has rightly said, because it is a central issue for the future of the european union.
when we talk about 2020 and governance, we talk about our collective capabilities, the sum of the synergies, what 500 million citizens of a continent represent, which has been able to generate and launch the industrial revolution, the best use of energy and the greatest scientific breakthroughs.
i fully share your view on energy, which has been the focus of much of my speech.
because, without a doubt, to the extent that we have more energy interconnection and less energy dependence, we will be stronger economically and stronger politically.
energy, as we know, has determined the course of history.
control and use of energy.
that is why i have created a portfolio, the climate agenda, and so i hope that the commissioner, in this case a commissioner, in the future, will have all the support necessary to represent the union in the post-copenhagen negotiations.
i am glad that energy security is also one of spain's priorities.
mr prime minister, i come from poland, which, like few other countries, understands the need to diversify the supply of energy resources, and that is to diversify the sources of these supplies, and not just the transmission channels, as the russian gazprom lobbyists convince us.
we are debating today at a time when our important neighbour, also from the point of view of our energy security, ukraine, is passing another democratic test.
on climate change, the council will be analysing the copenhagen summit on 11 february, with the help of the commission, and of course the european union must continue to take steps towards a strategy that will lead to a progressive agreement in favour of reducing climate change.
i am in favour of the european union knowing how to intelligently combine its own ambition for 2020 or for the period 2020-2030 with the requirement for other actors to reduce their emissions.
one of the priorities of the spanish presidency is the economic recovery of the eu, to be achieved through the adoption and implementation of the european sustainable development strategy by 2020. the document presented by the commission shows that the main objective is to promote a knowledge-based economy and a more environmentally friendly one.
the presidency must now work to create a climate that will allow decisions to be taken at cop16 in line with the european union's position, so that the situation at cop15 does not recur.
firstly, because energy security was one of the priorities of the spanish presidency.
i agree with the spanish presidency's assumptions about action to stop climate change.
i would like to stress the importance of coordinated information to all eu citizens about the possibilities of taking action on climate change.
we therefore need to engage europeans as fully as possible and convince them that climate change is not an abstract process but, on the contrary, affects each of us individually and all of us together.
we have to accept the fact that nobody (except for a few european countries) wants to pay for reducing co2 emissions or reducing energy consumption.
even worse, some developing countries, using irritating anti-colonial rhetoric, want to make a fortune from this while being the biggest emitters of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere.
african countries, china, india want to stay out of the loop, not be subject to the international emissions monitoring system, and at the same time receive billions of euros for clean technologies.
second, acting alone will not change the emissions, because we have already reduced our own emissions.
the climate and the natural environment are the property of all people, including future generations, and we must therefore feel responsible for protecting them.
at the last climate summit, world leaders failed to agree on a common strategy and instruments to achieve this.
so i call for an independent international panel of experts to produce a credible report to determine whether human activity is actually affecting climate change and whether the data has been falsified.
eu policymakers should also take into account the economic disparities between western and eastern europe when defining a common climate strategy.
the spanish presidency has decided to prepare an assessment of the copenhagen climate conference, which we are talking about here, which many say has ended in failure.
the european union's current negotiating strategy on climate protection needs to be reviewed, as preparations are under way for the next summit in mexico in december this year.
we have to evaluate the declaration of our other parties by first and foremost upholding the climate conference as the main forum for negotiating the agreement, regardless of critical assessments whether the un forum is appropriate, good, efficient, etc.
we want a green economy, one that is environmentally sound, that develops new sources of energy, new technologies for producing and saving energy.
at the same time, we know that the cheapest energy is unused energy, and therefore rationality.
and that's the last sentence, reducing carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases is not going to be done through expensive technologies.
the bidding that also took place here in parliament, whether to cut emissions by 40 or 50 percent, was wrong.
we must change our tactics and be decisive in our talks with the world powers - china, the united states - and possibly threaten what our colleagues in france are talking about, namely a carbon tax on the borders of the european union.
the copenhagen summit showed a different way of looking at climate change.
the real challenge was not to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but to propose effective mechanisms to promote their reduction.
the european community has been a leader in reducing co2 emissions and remains a benchmark for achieving them globally.
the priority would be to finance actions that, at the lowest cost, would contribute to the actual reduction of emissions.
the failure of the climate summit exposed europe's weakness and the naivety of its political elites.
conclusion: the european union should immediately review its restrictive climate and energy package, as it reduces the competitiveness of its economy.
climate change is one of the major issues facing the world today.
there was a climate summit in copenhagen recently that was dedicated to this issue.
meanwhile, we learned that the climate research department at the university of east anglia, one of the most prestigious institutions in the world dedicated to the study of global warming and the impact of human activity on this process, has leaked the contents of several thousand documents and emails, including correspondence between scientists from different countries whose research has had a key impact on the european union and the united nations' position on climate change.
the disclosures suggest that the results of the studies may have been manipulated and, as a result, that the information on the greenhouse effect and climate change may have been inaccurate.
eu countries, and therefore our societies, are bearing the serious costs of greenhouse gas emissions.
at copenhagen, efforts were made to make the developed countries of the eu bear even more of the financial burden of global warming, thereby supporting the developing countries.
not even to convince those who doubt the validity of measures to reduce emissions, but because european taxpayers are and will be paying the enormous costs involved and need to be sure that these measures are based on credible evidence.
the europe 2020 strategy, the objectives we must share on investments in education, on job specialisation and on the fight against climate change are also elements to be shared and also of solidarity.
this idea is a very good example of a territorial cohesion policy that is based on the sustainability of the environment, the economy and society.
i hope that a coherent strategy for the danube region will contribute to increased prosperity, sustainable and sustainable development, generate new jobs and security in the region.
the actions of the strategy for the trans-danube region cover a number of areas of support, such as social policy, culture and education, environmental protection, infrastructure and sustainable economic development.
− any community initiative which aims to coordinate and strengthen regional initiatives and contributes to deepening economic cooperation, improving transport infrastructure and protecting the environment deserves support.
the diversification of gas supplies is the basis of the european union's energy security.
dependence on one-way supplies will lead to imbalances in the long term, not only in terms of energy security but also in terms of the economy.
in addition, the negative impact of the construction of the pipeline also has an environmental aspect.
thank you for the opportunity to speak, because i'd like to speak on an important issue related to the costs of climate policy.
the european union is consistently designing its climate policy.
at the same time, it is a fact that the new member states with surplus met their commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions under the kyoto protocol.
any action taken by the commission must therefore take into account both the differentiated costs of adaptation of the economies of individual member states, the costs that individual countries have incurred so far in reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the kyoto protocol and, finally, to halt those changes that may upset the balance between countries.
we must not waste this creative potential.
the challenges we face - the economic and financial crisis, climate change and energy security - to name a few - are simply too great for us not to change the way we do things.
the broad priorities are clear: making a successful exit from the crisis; leading on climate action and energy efficiency; boosting new sources of growth and social cohesion to renew our social market economy; advancing a people's europe with freedom and security; and opening a new era for global europe.
so we will make sure we embed short-term measures to get europe working again into our longer-term objectives, promoting jobs through sustainable growth.
this means greener growth: building a competitive and sustainable economy, tackling climate change, accelerating the roll-out of smart grids and genuine eu-scale networks, modernising the eu's industrial base, and turning the european union into a resource efficient economy.
finally, i would also like to express my disappointment that we did not receive sufficient answers to the questions on energy security during the interview process.
some members of this parliament put questions to me regarding energy security.
i want to underline that we are going to include energy security in our proposal for the european union 2020 strategy.
i believe that promoting energy security and energy efficiency should be an important part of our agenda for competitiveness and for greener, sustainable and resource-efficient growth in europe.
in the months and years to come, these two institutions - the commission and the european parliament - will play a decisive role in meeting the challenges facing the european union: the fight against climate change, security, economic globalisation, avoiding a crisis like the one we are still suffering, the launch of the new initiatives and institutions of the lisbon treaty (the citizens' initiative, the solidarity clause and, of course, the european external action service).
in fact renovation of houses of extremely poor quality might result in a waste of public resources.
we are talking today about enlargement, and it is good that we are talking about it, because, let us not hide it, the european union is in a kind of institutional crisis, and so the way forward is enlargement of the european union, it can give us some energy, give us some animus and it is worth going in that direction.
the issue of energy security and turkey's key position mean that it is slowly becoming essential for the protection of european interests.
the main weakness of cop 15 was the underestimation of: the sensitivity of third and developing countries, as well as some eu countries, to climate justice; the fact that the two largest world powers, the us and china, are competing with each other both economically and militarily; the fact that ambitious projects to reduce co2 emissions were based on the scientifically unreliable paradigm of anthropogenic climate warming.
so they cannot rely on the opinion of men who are carrying out the presupposition that man is warming the climate.
it is time for the european commission to rely on its own meta-analysis of climate research, carried out by a team of climate scientists, independent of the commission's opinion and any political pressure, on a matter as important to civilization as climate change.
- the copenhagen climate summit was rightly considered a failure by most observers.
the climate agreement that the eu should promote must have three basic characteristics: it must be legally binding, it must be solidary and it must be ambitious.
the decisions taken at the eu summit in seville, where it was agreed that the eu would not reduce its emissions by more than 20% by 2020 compared to 1990, should be welcomed with concern.
no one can do it for the eu, and the eu cannot relinquish its role as the global promoter of radical measures to combat global warming.
− although the copenhagen climate conference failed to reach a decision on the scope and scale of the emission reductions and the financial resources allocated to them, i do not consider it a failure, although it certainly did not meet the eu's expectations.
expectations that were irrational in terms of both the size of the proposed greenhouse gas reductions and the financial expectations for climate change mitigation.
and then there was a little bit of arrogance in declaring leadership in the fight against climate change.
this is partly due to the fact that there is still a lack of reliable scientific data on climate change and human involvement in this process.
recently, we have seen a debate among experts and scientists on this subject, which confirms that there is no consensus on the effects of global warming.
negotiations on fisheries, the environment and the common foreign and security policy should be unblocked as soon as possible.
it is also a region that enables the transfer of energy resources to europe.
i am in favour of free competition, i think its impact on political stability, on economic development, is undeniable, but it must be competition that is sustainable, which is that we compete on technologies or the cost of producing the products in question, and not on instruments such as the duty drawback, which is provided for in this agreement and which really only serves one party.
these are mainly telecommunications, environmental protection, transport, finance and legal services.
this agreement is particularly important in the current economic climate, as it will allow for faster development in the eu countries.
european integration, security and energy solidarity require joint investment activities by all member states in energy infrastructure in the broad sense, and in particular in transmission infrastructure.
the point is that the competitiveness element in the common market for production and services, which is shaped mainly by the cost of energy in the member state concerned, and commercial secrecy should not obscure or distort integration processes.
let us create a comprehensive, forward-looking energy infrastructure project for the whole union based on the principles of cooperation, trust and solidarity.
energy and the energy grid are one of the key issues for the future of the european economy.
the importance of energy security is repeated in various documents, debates and meetings.
according to a report by exxon mobil, one of the world's largest oil companies, global energy demand will show a clear upward trend of 1.2% per year, increasing by about 35% by 2030. demand for gas, which will be the second most important energy source, will increase by 1.8% per year.
the consequence of the old continent's growing demand for gas will be an increased dependence on imports of this raw material, from 45% in 2005 to 70% in 2030. in view of the above thresholds, the european community's financial support for the energy structure should be approached strategically.
priority should be given to those projects that focus on cross-border needs and contribute to the development of new technologies that are essential for europe's future energy needs.
these projects will help to close the gaps in interconnections in the european union and will allow for the continued optimal exploitation of internal energy sources in the european union.
ensuring that energy supplies are uninterrupted and stable has become a priority for the governments of the member states of the union and for the community as a whole.
the european commission has a particular responsibility in this respect and should, through its activities, seek to secure the energy supply of the community by developing and monitoring the proper functioning of the european energy market.
one of the mechanisms of the commission's multi-dimensional energy policy should be to support efficient investment projects in the energy sector.
the commission should carry out regular analyses and studies, based on information on the energy infrastructure investment projects of individual countries, with an emphasis not only on the projects currently in operation, but also on the analysis of investment projects aiming at greater diversification of both the sources of raw materials and the means of their transport and production.
the commission has a coherent analysis of all the countries of the union, it will be able to choose the strategy that is most beneficial for the european energy market.
the consolidated actions of the member states and the european commission contained in it will ensure an integrated and improved energy security system for the union, while achieving better efficiency and energy savings.
within the framework of the community energy policy, the commission should, together with the member states, identify the investments required to meet the eu's strategic needs for the demand and supply of natural gas and electricity.
this regulation establishes a common framework under which data and information on investment projects in energy infrastructure in the oil, natural gas, electricity, biofuels and low-emission investment projects for urban heating and cooling sectors are reported to the european commission.
the coal is undoubtedly an essential element for the stability of the energy system, which cannot be replaced by renewable energy sources, since they will not meet the needs of the ever-expanding and developing economic sectors of the new member states.
in pointing out the advantages of coal as an energy source, it should be noted that, on the basis of the technologies developed, we can increase the reduction of pollution gradually by adapting to the set co2 emission limits.
however, this report is only a basis for the future common fisheries policy, which requires a major restructuring and fundamental changes to reconcile environmental concerns with the preservation of the historical heritage of fisheries.
the common fisheries policy must reconcile ecological and environmental objectives with the size of the fisheries, as well as with employment and the living standards of fishermen's families.
the achievement of sustainable fishing quotas must be combined with a process of support for the fishing environment in various areas, i.e.
i especially like the emphasis on the ecological aspect.
it was ecological issues, environmental protection, that were the main arguments against the northern gas pipeline.
the key point is the need to strengthen cooperation between ukraine and the eu, especially in the energy field.
i would therefore like to draw attention to the negative environmental factors for the activities of these companies.
that is one thing, and i will also ensure, as i have promised, that any legislation is assessed beforehand against a number of social, environmental and economic criteria.
we have heard the commissioner say that the european commission is evaluating new directives in terms of social, economic and environmental criteria, so do not panic.
what the european commission and its president have been lobbying so hard for years on ambitious climate and energy policy is a simple attempt to destroy eu industry.
it's a pity the left didn't figure out that this is just a trap for them, because the most amateur emissions traders are recruited from those who have already caused the crisis.
we need an immediate review of the climate and energy package.
green economy yes, but it's recycling of materials and energy, cogeneration, thermal modernization, renewable energy where there is no other, waste disposal, nuclear energy, greater energy saving and greater energy efficiency and others.
so is co2 emissions also linked to such a green economy?
yes, but paradoxically, when the emissions increase... but that's good...
in writing.
madam president, commissioner, the copenhagen summit that we went to as leaders on climate change was a failure and showed that only europe is interested in reducing co2 emissions.
the commissioner said that despite its failure to tackle global warming, it would remain at the centre of european policy.
secondly, has the european commission verified the information on global warming and glacier melting against the background of erroneous or false information given by some scientists?
and thirdly, would the commissioner agree with my statement that without the united states, china, russia and india agreeing to significant reductions in emissions, the european union's efforts and the costs we incur will be in vain?
third, the eu should adopt a more rational approach to its co2 reduction strategy, with a view to reducing emissions while avoiding high adaptation costs.
fourth, the european union should step up its efforts to build a functioning low-carbon economy.
commissioner, the question is simple: is europe in a climate for such change?
here again, we are faced with a global challenge which is climate change, and we will see more and more of these natural disasters, just as we will continue to see disasters which are not natural and which can have serious consequences for the lives of men and women, for nature and for the economy.
the 2009 white paper on adaptation to climate change suggests, in the absence of insurance, publicly supported insurance schemes.
the honourable member also rightly points out that grass-root sports organisations face challenges in the current economic climate.
the study aims to describe the key sources of financing, identify financing models in different member states and for different sports disciplines and to analyse the eu regulatory environment and national policies that have an impact on sports funding.
the initial results of these consultations were presented to interested stakeholders at a conference on sustainable funding models for grass-root sport in the internal market, organised by the study contractor on 16 february in brussels.
the report concluded that, on the basis of the information placed at the disposal of the commission, the summer time regime has no negative impact and generated some energy savings.
other forms of threats are clearly increasing, and energy and food security are becoming important.
− i would like to draw attention to the contradiction between the objectives of the 2020 strategy and the effects that will result from the proposed changes in priorities in the budget for the years 2014 to 2020. one of the objectives is to improve the environment.
environmentally friendly, and this means that the eu would have to move away from the european model of agriculture, which is particularly concerned with the environment, landscape, biodiversity, animal welfare, sustainable development and the socio-cultural values of the rural environment.
let's make sure that we're taking care of the environment, and not damaging it.
economic recovery and environmental policy objectives are part of the agricultural policy.
research infrastructure, the development of multilateral arctic management based on the un convention and the involvement of the local arctic population are just some of the elements that must be included in a future european arctic strategy aimed at maintaining a balance between the protection of the natural environment and the sustainable use of its resources.
the arctic is a region that is not governed by international law, and the great interest in the arctic is, on the one hand (as already emphasised), the result of climate change, but on the other hand also the increasingly recognised and eagerly exploited potential for raw materials, especially energy resources, gas, but also natural resources such as fish.
of course, there are risks involved: for the environment, from the exploitation of resources and fisheries, but also for the indigenous population, which we must also take into account in particular.
the specter of global warming.
a common eu arctic policy is needed, particularly with regard to the exploitation of new resources, environmental risks and new shipping opportunities.
our task is to help local communities to adapt to their new environment, and to protect their culture and languages.
the growing concern over the region is a consequence of climate change causing the melting of the arctic ice cap.
we all agree that environmental consequences of this process will be profound, what i would like to draw attention of this house and the eu as whole to though, is its political and indeed security dimension.
there is a need to find a balance between economic exploitation of the region and its ecosystem, but there is also a need to inter alia protect the existing legal regime governing the arctic, to name just this one issue.
- madam president, mr president-in-office, as you know, one of the union's key strategic priorities or objectives is energy security.
in the european union - especially since many countries in the european union suffered very directly from the gas crisis that occurred between russia and ukraine at the beginning of 2009 - we place a high value on energy security and we certainly consider it one of the major objectives we have as the european union, an objective linked, of course, to the great objective of combating climate change.
the strategy of the council and the presidency of the council of the union on energy and energy security is the need to go further towards differentiating suppliers and sources of energy and the distribution of that energy.
some european countries have a clearly excessive energy dependence on russia, which also has to do with the fact that europe was divided for a long time in the 20th century and that interconnections between european countries in some cases directly do not exist.
the energy objectives in europe are therefore of extraordinary importance, medium and long-term, and that is why we are in favour of diversifying these energy sources and of projects such as the nabucco project or the nord stream or south stream projects, which have to do with russia, being strengthened and even reaching something which does not exist in europe at the moment: a common energy market.
for these objectives, facilitated by the treaty of lisbon, which introduces this energy competition which did not exist before, it is fundamental, essential, to establish a strategic relationship with russia on energy issues and other matters.
in other words, there is a strengthening of the european union's external vision which will strengthen us in negotiations with other countries in all areas, including economic and energy.
we are negotiating an agreement in which the energy issue is a key issue; that negotiation is beginning and we have the best prospects in that respect, but, of course, like any agreement, it is a matter that depends on very complex negotiations which are in turn part of a set of negotiations on that cooperation agreement which we want to update - as i say - after a lot has happened in europe in the last fifteen or twenty years.
does the council not intend to take up the issue of environmental security in its forthcoming talks with russia?
the resolution presented here illustrates very well the superiority of climate policy over energy security in the european union.
nuclear energy, as it happens, is the only commercially proven low-carbon energy source, yet it is subjected to very strong criticism in this resolution.
the european union's limited financial resources are to be invested in selected energy sources, simply because they are renewable, interfering very strongly with the market.
that money will simply not be enough for energy security.
the debate on investing in low-carbon technologies is a debate on how member states' economies can adapt to the conditions of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
although the climatic and weather conditions of the last few months on our continent not only give arguments to those scientists who question the human influence on climate change through co2 emissions, when we talk about low-carbon technologies, the question must be asked in this context: how to provide the necessary resources for the development of clean technologies to achieve maximum effects in the shortest possible time?
the question is whether and how appropriate mechanisms are to be set up to support investment in low-carbon technologies.
finally, i would also like to add that while there are some strong arguments for investing in the development of low-carbon technologies, this should not be at the expense of cohesion policy.
the commission communication of 23 january 2008 entitled 'supporting early demonstration activities in the field of sustainable energy from fossil fuels' as part of the climate and energy package stated that the european union would support the construction of 10 to 12 ccs demonstration units.
the proposed commission decision on this project shows that the ner300 support will cover 6 ccs projects in the energy sector and 2 in industry.
one of the key priorities of the european union's long-term strategy should be to create an innovative economy, including by transforming the current energy system, based on a low-carbon model, in particular on clean coal technologies.
the eu's primary energy supply is still about 80% fossil fuel.
in the last decades, networks, supply chains have been improved to supply society with energy from these sources.
the european strategic energy technology plan, which is a pillar of the european union's energy and climate policy, is a good step towards making the european union an innovation economy, provided, of course, that it takes into account the financing of clean coal technologies.
if europe is to achieve ambitious reduction targets in a cost-effective way, it is essential to increase research expenditure on clean, sustainable and efficient energy technologies, and to coordinate the pooling of public and private sector strengths, potential and resources.
we now have a unique and real opportunity to change the patterns of energy production.
however, investment in the development and promotion of clean, renewable energy sources can only be realised if the community provides the appropriate level of funding and includes such investment in the list of strategic objectives of the european union.
global warming caused by human activity is a fact.
the way to deal with these problems is clean, renewable energy.
however, in order for them to play a significant role in the european energy system, two conditions must be met.
investing in the development of low-carbon technologies as part of the epste plan is important from an eu-wide perspective.
however, it is particularly important for countries whose energy sector for historical reasons emits large amounts of co2.
the improvement and development of carbon capture and storage (css) technology is vital for the entire polish economy.
by voting for the resolution, i wanted to express my support for investing in the development of low-carbon technologies.
the main reasons for this are the current economic situation in europe, dangerous climate change and the threat to energy security.
modern research and technology are providing the opportunity to overcome the crisis while supporting climate change action.
it is also an opportunity for european agriculture, a way of creating new jobs in rural areas, in the non-agricultural sector, especially in the area of renewable energy.
i could not support this resolution, although it is extremely important for the european economy, but it should be noted that this resolution presupposes a huge concentration of money only in certain industries, only in certain energy sectors green energy sectors.
this is at odds with the energy solidarity of countries that rely primarily on coal.
- having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control (a7-0210/2010), environmental and natural disasters are becoming more and more common in our lives.
the threats of environmental change have increased in recent decades and we should do everything we can to prevent them.
the european union, a group of 27 countries, half a billion citizens, must not only face the occurrence of climate and environmental change, but also take care of its citizens and provide them with the best possible conditions for survival in post-crisis situations.
the first ruling was in 1996, when the tribunal also found that there was no social climate for the abolition of the death penalty.
so it can be concluded that this climate is still not there, and it is a pity, because the country that is the economic leader should be an example for other countries in respecting the basic human right, which is the right to life.
within this set of actions there is certainly one more: the commitment to a new strategy for growth and the creation of quality jobs, which is the central theme of this weekend's european council; a strategy which has been expressed and developed by the european commission in the document of 3 march and which will be studied mainly by the heads of state and government at the spring council, mainly from the perspective of the so-called 'strategic objectives', the strategic objectives which the european commission has identified in its document, such as the issues of employment, investment in research and development, climate change and energy, school dropout, education in general and poverty.
that will be the main objective of the european council meetings this weekend, to which will be added an important section, the one on the fight against climate change, where the union's leadership is maintained.
the european union maintains its global leadership in the fight against climate change; it must do so, it must continue to maintain that leadership.
we hope, therefore, that the european council will quantify and reaffirm this commitment in the years ahead to help developing countries also tackle the fight against climate change; and a commitment by the developed countries in general to work with those that are not yet developed and to ensure that we all arrive in the best possible conditions at the all-important cancún conference, where the european union must maintain - i repeat - the leadership it has at present, without which the copenhagen agreements, which we consider insufficient, would certainly not have been achieved.
that is why the european council will deal with two of our most obvious long-term challenges: our economic future, and climate change.
your contribution and your commitment will be indispensible in carrying through our ambitions for smart, sustainable, inclusive growth.
they address the need to increase the level of employment, to invest more in research and innovation, to meet our 2020 climate and energy targets, to improve our educational performance and to combat poverty.
they should also require an extra effort compared to the status quo, a recognition by our member states that change is needed, and i will try to convey to the european council this sense of urgency for the economic situation of europe now and for the need of reforms for a more sustainable, more inclusive economy and society in europe.
regarding climate change, i know that this parliament shares my conviction that climate change is not a subject that can be put on the back burner.
the european union has been in the lead, and we still are – we alone have the reduction commitments clearly backed up with the mechanisms to deliver; we are the number one donors of aid to developing countries on climate issues.
i can inform you that the european union welcomes the resumption of the dialogue between the envoys of the dalai lama and the chinese government, which was restarted again in september 2002. since then, we have strongly supported this dialogue and hope that this process will lead to positive results and to resolving outstanding issues in a peaceful and sustainable way for tibet.
i would like to address you, and in particular commissioner janez potočnik, on a matter which is affecting the speedway environment in a dozen countries of the european union.
the case concerns the implementation of directive 2002/49 on the management of environmental noise.
i wanted to emphasize that such a very important moment in the life of every person is the transition from the school-academic environment, that is from education to the first job.
− mr president, i should like to thank members for their comments, which have deepened and enriched my understanding of parliament’s priorities for 2011. what was clear to me when listening – and i am in a listening mood this evening – was that many speakers stressed that we are shaping the budget for 2011 in the extraordinary environment of post-crisis europe, with many countries struggling with real fiscal challenges.
i very much hope that this debate, at this late hour, is not a waste of time for all of us.
i would like to draw particular attention to the issue of economic, social and territorial cohesion, which is key to ensuring that the eu has sustainable economic growth and full integration of the member states.
i would like to point out the relevance of paragraph 9 of mr scott's report, which stresses that the commission should seek to secure an agreement in the wto negotiations on non-trade issues which ensures that imported agricultural products meet the same food safety, animal welfare and environmental protection requirements as those imposed on agricultural products produced in the european union.
the lack of this information will weaken the competitiveness of agri-food products produced and processed in europe against imported goods that do not comply with animal welfare, environmental requirements or social standards for working people.
the crisis did not start in 2008 with a collapse in financial markets, but in 2007 with a crisis in food markets and a disruption in the energy market, which is driven by political instruments.
although i'm not on the environmental, public health and food safety committee, i will continue to be involved in the legislative amendments, especially those that will radically improve horse transportation.
there are many motivations, but above all, i have a christian ethic that i care about, not just for people, but for animals and for our environment.
- i congratulate my colleague on his detailed report and agree that the quality policy for agricultural products should not be seen in isolation from the cap and the guiding ideas of the community strategy for the coming years, such as sustainable development, biodiversity and the fight against climate change.
eu citizens expect high-quality, healthy goods that are produced using innovative technologies that take into account the environmental impact of the production process.
there are economic objectives, environmental objectives, social objectives.
of course there have been discussions, but i believe that our colleagues in the ecofin council, which i attended, in the general affairs council, in the european council, have been convinced that this balance between the social, economic and ecological aspects should be maintained in the approach of the 2020 strategy.
and then there's the climate issues.
that is why there is nothing more urgent today than to find a new source of economic, social and political energy to start growing in a sustainable way.
the new treaty makes it clear where that energy should come from: europe is much more than the european institutions and national governments.
we have the climate challenge, for which there is the copenhagen agreement, but what we have promised to reduce co2 emissions is not enough to meet the few targets that were provided for in the copenhagen agreement, that is to say the objective of not raising the temperature by more than 2 degrees compared to a pre-industrial period.
in addition to the climate challenge, there is the challenge for global trade and there is the challenge for international financial regulation; some of you have spoken about it quite rightly.
the europe 2020 strategy should enable us to effectively combat the effects of these negative developments so that our continent is ready to face the challenges of the next decade in a globally competitive environment.
i agree that the strategic priorities themselves - sustainable growth, a knowledge-based and innovative economy, investment in citizens' education and building a society free of economic divisions and poverty - are well articulated.
the community is given a strong emphasis on the implementation of new technologies and organisational arrangements, particularly those relating to environmental protection and improving the living standards of seafarers.
but i have very simple questions: what is the real responsibility, the impact, the impact of agriculture on climate change, i think both positive and negative?
to what extent does the cap already implement climate protection requirements and what instruments can be used in the cap in this respect in the future?
the main causes of this are the different production conditions, whether in terms of climate, soil quality, water availability, location or socio-historical conditions.
secondly, the withdrawal from the agenda of the report by silvi ţicău on the energy efficiency of buildings, because it was not adopted in committee on monday.
secondly, the need for sustainable development of all transport modes, especially rail transport, cannot be neglected.
our first priority must be to get out of the crisis and to lay the foundations for sustainable growth and job creation.
by having stronger structures and a better coordinated approach, europe can facilitate the return of public finances to a sustainable trajectory and create a framework for a broader and more sustainable recovery.
by presenting the europe 2020 strategy right after taking office, we have set the scene to help bring europe back on track on track for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
achieving the vision of a sustainable social market economy by 2020 will require a strong effort from all levels of decision-making and all levels of society.
thus we will help drive the transition to a resource efficient and climate-change resilient economy.
fighting climate change will remain a top priority on our agenda, both internally and globally.
the energy and transport sectors will get particular attention this year both critical to turn the challenge of a sustainable europe into our competitive advantage.
for example, the commission will launch a public debate on the future of pensions and analyse options for ensuring the sustainability and adequacy of pension systems.
the commission will also be tackling the challenges of energy geopolitics, in order to ensure safe, secure, sustainable and affordable energy.
and that's precisely why we want to keep this flexibility, which is important to adapt to a changing environment.
what we need now is growth, but not just any kind of growth, more equitable growth, more open, more sustainable, more intelligent, future-oriented growth.
the second phase is about sustainable reconstruction, which needs to be coordinated and needs to be assessed for that reconstruction, while always remembering that the people and the government of haiti must own the process.
let me finish with the question of long-term sustainability.
it is governance sustainability, it is also ecological sustainability.
in chile, the government has implemented for decades a reafforestation programme stabilising the soil and, as a result, creating a better environment, which is obviously very helpful for people.
− i am aware of that report of the european climate foundation and, indeed, under the 2020 strategy we have proposed a resource-efficient europe flagship initiative whose aim is precisely to decouple growth from resources, giving europe a competitive advantage compared to other international partners.
it is the commission’s intention to develop a path for europe’s transition to a low-carbon, resource-efficient and climate-change resilient economy by 2050, particularly through the decarbonisation of the energy and transport sectors, thus providing a long-term framework for policy and investment.
we believe that the climate agenda can also be, as the renewable energy sector is showing, a way of creating more jobs in europe, what we usually call ‘green jobs’.
− i have to remind you that it was the commission that launched the climate change and energy package and that we have highlighted the great potential for the creation of jobs in some sectors of the so-called greening of the economy and that, certainly, the priority for the future is such, one of the most important targets of the eu 2020. we have put at the centre of the eu 2020 our climate and energy targets, from 20% reduction of greenhouse gases, to 20% renewables and to 20% gains in energy efficiency.
growth, not only smart growth and equitable growth, but also sustainable growth.
the european union considers kyrgyzstan to be strategically important as a country with energy and natural resources and as the host of a us military base supporting nato forces in afghanistan.
− on climate change, agriculture should not be seen as a harmful branch of the economy, but rather as an industry that has not only the best capacity to adapt to changes in the ecosystem, but also to effectively counter the harmful effects of global warming.
already today, there is a significant reduction in co2 emissions from agriculture compared to previous decades.
investments in rural development, pillar ii of the cap, will enable better training for farmers, technological modernisation of farms and appropriate environmental and biodiversity monitoring and control.
properly managed farms will result in carbon sequestration and greater food security.
innovative research and appropriate cap investments will help agriculture become a powerful tool to fight climate change and air pollution.
the greek government has put forward a solid and credible package that will steer its economy on a sustainable path and restore confidence.
this is why it is no less urgent to continue delivering a sustainable and responsible financial sector, at the service of the economy and its citizens.
but in addition to this 'working in the short term, something that the member states of the union are doing, that the european institutions are doing', we must look beyond the horizon of this decade and ensure the sustainability of our social model, the european social model.
the strategy will focus on key areas for europe: knowledge and innovation, a sustainable economy - as also called for by the european parliament - a high employment rate and social inclusion.
with regard to these five key objectives, the employment rate, 75% for men and women, 3% of gdp investment in research and development, the so-called 20/20/20 targets in the fight against climate change, the target of reducing school drop-out rates and increasing the proportion of the population with higher education, and the target of promoting social inclusion, in particular poverty reduction, are not yet quantified.
we need to stress the importance of the european dimension more than ever and we have an opportunity to do precisely that, with the objectives of europe 2020. i have been invited to talk to you now about europe 2020, but looking in isolation at this package of measures for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth does not really make sense, because one of the key conclusions we can draw from the crisis we are now living is that we have to work together, at all levels and in all areas, to fill the gaps in the framework for regulation and supervision of the financial markets, to restore macroeconomic stability and sound public finances, to launch the structural reforms that can steer europe to a path of sustainable growth and jobs.
so all this demands a holistic approach, financial markets reforms, reinforced economic governance, europe 2020 for sustainable, inclusive, smart growth and leading global reforms through the g20, because many of these matters have external dimensions.
it is essential if we want to exit the crisis successfully, restore growth, translate that growth into more and better jobs, and ultimately ensure a sustainable and inclusive future for europe.
the five targets proposed by the commission are now largely consensual; numerical rates have already been fixed concerning targets on employment, r&d and the fight against climate change.
then we must ensure stronger, joined-up governance by tying all our coordination instruments together: europe 2020 and stability and growth pact reporting and evaluation, carried out simultaneously, to bring the means and aims together; input from the european systemic risk board to ensure overall financial stability; structural reforms; measures to increase competitiveness; macroeconomic developments – all coming together to get us out of the crisis and firmly on the road to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
at such a dramatic moment for europe, recommendations are consistently made to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 30%, for example, which will suffocate the economies of central and eastern european countries, including poland.
secondly, this is capital investment in transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructures.
however, we must not forget that the changes we are facing must be made in a sustainable way, with appropriate harmonization, using energy sources known in the automotive industry, such as propane, butane or natural gas, the use of which has an ecological factor in its denominator.
electric cars and their importance for the further decarbonisation process and efficiency must be carefully analysed in terms of carbon emissions.
during this period, it has made a major contribution to the development of integration, sustainable and sustainable development, economic and social cohesion by supporting investment projects in europe, lending to the public and private sectors, and using financial markets and own funds.
without a strong and effective transatlantic partnership as equal partners – the united states and the european union – we cannot find lasting solutions to the many challenges we face: climate change, energy security, the economic crisis still hitting all of us, terrorism, or promoting human rights, defending free trade and improving global governance.
a europe where all member states benefit by negotiating trade agreements and fighting environmental degradation with one unified voice; a europe that bolsters the cultural and political values that my country shares with all of you.
climate change: one of the greatest threats our planet faces.
(applause) ladies and gentlemen, we are also working together inside nato to prepare for a range of future security threats, including energy security and cyber-security, and we continue to support close security cooperation between nato and the eu.
we should show both the citizens and the kyrgyz authorities, not just through such resolutions, that we support the strengthening of democracy and social development, the security of the population and sustainable growth.
− given that progress towards the 20% energy saving target for 2020 is too slow, there is a need to increase and accelerate innovation in ict and to significantly increase the share of renewable energy sources.
it should be noted that the growth of the transport sector is accompanied by a rapid increase in carbon dioxide emissions.
the emphasis should therefore be on the use of information and communication technologies in this sector, not only to reduce emissions but also to prevent them from increasing.
this can lead to a reduction in traffic congestion, which has a positive impact on the environment.
all these actions will not only bring tangible climate benefits, but also reduce energy costs and lead to the creation of green jobs.
the interests of these countries must also be taken into account, as they are a significant group that still uses traditional energy sources.
− inevitable climate change is forcing the european union's society and economy to adapt to the new reality.
i am particularly pleased to highlight the important role of the common agricultural policy, which plays a key role in the process of adaptation to climate change as a watchdog for the protection of ecosystems and biodiversity.
− the results of scientific work indicate that the effects of climate change will have an increasing impact on the environment, the economy and our daily lives.
taking action to adapt to the current and future impacts of climate change is therefore a major challenge for societies around the world.
decisions on how best to adapt to climate change must be based on sound scientific and economic analysis, but not all regions have access to information of the right quality.
the creation of a climate change monitoring platform to exchange information, experience and best practice at european, regional and local levels is therefore a good initiative.
i am not sure, however, that the eu's taking on the role of leader in the international fight against global warming, as recommended in the document, is not an attempt to take on too much responsibility for global affairs.
i think that in the face of challenges like the economic crisis, or the need to create growth, we shouldn't prioritize spending on global warming.
whatever action is taken to adapt to climate change, it should also be borne in mind that some countries will face exceptionally high costs for implementing adaptation policies and that leaving them without any financial support may lead to a widening of the development gap between member states.
energy consumption in buildings accounts for almost one third of all energy consumed in the european union.
this segment therefore has significant potential for reducing energy consumption not only because of the commitments made to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but also because of the issue of energy security.
the key provisions of the proposed directive include the concept of 'nearly zero energy buildings'.
let us recall that by the end of 2020, all new buildings are to be nearly zero-energy buildings, and in the case of the public sector, which should set an example, two years earlier.
first, the creation by 2020 of an energy efficiency fund, which would act as a vehicle for increasing private and public investment in projects to improve the energy efficiency of buildings.
secondly, the inclusion in the text of the draft directive of a provision on the introduction of smart metering systems and active control systems, aimed at energy saving.
the widespread deployment of these devices can bring benefits to consumers in terms of price, energy efficiency and energy security.
− the main factors shaping energy efficiency are: 1. conversion of one kind of energy into another so that specific useful work can be done.
in practice, this is mainly the flow of heat energy released from primary energy sources, much of which is released into the environment.
2. the electrical resistance, called ohm's resistance, is important in electrical energy transfer.
styropian, mineral wool, cellular concrete) significantly reduces the energy demand of the dwelling.
it's currently large, about 40% of the total energy used.
friction losses are about 30% of the total energy.
i was in favour of the regulation without amendments, because energy losses in housing are next to conversion losses the biggest, and the savings will help poor people.
in the case of poland, thermal modernisation, alongside cogeneration, can bring economic, social and environmental benefits.
europe's ambition is to be at the forefront of research and development, innovation and new technologies to help manage energy resources better.
on the other hand, we should protect young people from discrimination, and campaign for environmental values, not forgetting the fight against drug addiction and other addictions to which young people are particularly vulnerable.
it is hardly necessary to convince anyone that the economic stabilisation of ukraine and the reform of the ukrainian energy sector are in the union's interest.
− i will promise to start answering very briefly because the document to which the honourable member refers is a not a document adopted by the commission and its release was not authorised, but later this month the commission intends to adopt the communication to the council and the parliament assessing the benefits and the costs of the eu stepping up to a target of 30% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
this communication was actually requested by the environment council in its conclusions dated 15 march this year.
in addition, this communication will present, as requested under the ets directive, an analysis of the situation of energy-intensive sectors that it has been determined are exposed to a risk of carbon leakage in the light of the outcome of copenhagen.
− firstly, i would like to study whatever you have agreed today on energy efficiency in buildings.
there are also some alternative financial models that can be used so that it would be in the interest of those taking care of the buildings to make them much more energy efficient.
i agree very much with the questioner that one of the areas where we can do so much more in europe would be within the field of energy efficiency and buildings.
there is such a huge potential there and it is just stupid that we use a lot of energy that none of us really benefit from because we are not using it efficiently enough.
in response to chris davies, and regarding climate-change deniers: i try to address it when i meet it.
i think there are so many other reasons – which climate sceptics should also agree with – that it is so important to do something with energy efficiency and energy technologies.
carbon leakage is not a case where if we do things we risk losing jobs.
i am very happy to see that the new british government also seems to be very keen on being ambitious in the field of climate change.
counter-terrorism policy conducted at national level by member states or the participation on the cia rendition programme will not specifically be assessed in this context, but it is very clear what the commission thinks about this, and we will continue to follow developments in member states, including legal challenges brought against counter-terrorism measures in national courts, and to draw lessons from sustainable policy-making at eu level.
for exactly four weeks, industry and the authorities have been making many efforts - so far without final success - to stop the enormous oil spill and reduce environmental damage, especially on the coast.
this european legislation provides the framework for safety and environmental protection measures, both in general and in the event of a specific accident.
this is why we have every reason to come together: politics and business must work together to ensure that europe's environment and its citizens are as safe as possible.
i want to put safety and sustainability in oil and gas production at the center of our stakeholder conversations.
that is why i have already invited a high-level panel of the major energy companies operating in european waters last week.
if, however, a similar accident should occur, we have a variety of measures and mechanisms to respond effectively without delay and to minimise the impact on the citizens and the environment in europe.
the explosion of a platform in the gulf of mexico is the largest environmental disaster of its kind in history.
the us pointed out that in many cases, decisions to locate platforms in the gulf of mexico were made under pressure and in the interest of the oil industry, at the expense of the environment.
it is difficult not to recall here the decision to build the north stream pipeline, which was a political decision that did not take into account the risks that this investment could pose to the baltic sea ecosystem.
structural reforms have to address the underlying weaknesses of the european union economy: sharply growing debts and deficits, ageing, the highly probable new surge of inflation, risks generated by climate-change policies, low productivity and lack of competitiveness.
a business-friendly regulatory environment, efficient government, non-distortionary taxes, high labour participation rates especially among women, a good education system, research and innovation – all that constitutes a minimum core package of measures to bring growth, jobs and competitiveness.
without doubt the european winning strategy has to be based on fiscal tightening, but its focus should be on innovation, the only way to boost productivity and growth in a sustainable way.
the indicators proposed by the commission should be supplemented by a saturation index for ict, transport, energy, environmental and social infrastructure.
smart, sustainable and inclusive growth are the proposed pillars of the new strategy, which define where the european union should be by 2020. but before we can do that, we need to learn from the economic collapse that has swept the world for good.
in the age of climate change, we all want to protect the environment and prevent weather anomalies, so we choose both food and everyday products with ecological considerations.
it is therefore important that consumers are aware of the energy used during the operation of equipment and therefore i believe that they have the right to have this information on the labels.
the creation of new separate thematic funds to respond to new challenges would be a waste of time and money, would also delay the implementation of this strategy and would condemn it to the fate of the lisbon treaty.
however, what still needs to be stressed is the need for a climate-justice policy, one that does not overburden central and eastern european countries into perpetuating their status as the poorest relatives of the european union.
agriculture is food security, agriculture is environmental security, so important to us and to future generations.
it can be said that climate policy is the only area in which european action is permitted.
this is a waste of eu money which we cannot afford in a time of economic crisis.
the commission notes that the decommissioning of the four units of the kozloduy nuclear power plant has certainly caused a very large loss in the bulgarian energy system.
this has a significant impact on the security of supply in the region and must lead to increased co2 emissions, which should be important to at least some of the members in this chamber.
however, we are being asked, particularly in the amendments, to turn our backs on the energy problems of one of the member states.
this is contrary to the principle of solidarity which should govern energy policy.
this also gives the impression that parliament is discriminating against nuclear energy, contrary to the principle that member states have full freedom of choice in their energy sources.
this country-specific strategy should cover transport, environment, culture and society.
and this is because, unfortunately, the pakistani authorities are responsible for creating a climate that is conducive to this through inappropriate blasphemy legislation, through a lack of response to the misconduct of law enforcement and the judiciary in that country.
just a few factual points: mr berman, on behalf of the committee on development, mentioned that development money – and particularly the fast-start money for climate change – should be additional.
from advanced medical treatments to ever-faster ways of communicating, from innovative ideas in industry and science to new, alternative methods of energy production.
while we are concerned about rapid economic growth and environmental protection, we must not forget about people and social inequalities, which can be exacerbated at the expense of development.
i am convinced that the establishment of a consolidated transnational research programme based on cross-border cooperation and the exchange of experience will contribute to more effective action for the protection of the baltic sea and lead to sustainable development of the region.
the baltic environment includes another country, russia.
it is clear that we are giving russia the necessary know-how (knowledge of technological development), while they have to provide us with an improved investment climate in this country for eu business, as well as legal stability.
neglect of its biodiversity will have a negative impact on those management practices that benefit from the fishery.
− i voted yes on the joint baltic sea research and development programme (bonus-169) because i support the objectives of this project and believe that the current ecological problems of the baltic sea must be addressed.
- the adoption by the european parliament of the statute of the international renewable energy agency is good news for the european union as a whole.
alternative energy sources are the future of both the modern economy and, above all, of environmental biodiversity conservation.
geothermal, wind, solar, biomass or biogas are all ways in which the european economy can become somewhat independent of imported energy resources, while making environmentally friendly use of natural resources.
in the current global economic and, above all, geopolitical situation, it seems that additional initiatives are needed to ensure the energy security of the european continent.
renewable energy is a great alternative to traditional methods, while creating new jobs, being cheaper and more environmentally friendly.
the adoption of the statute of this organisation is a right move by parliament towards a better energy policy.
the european parliament also decided that the energy value of the product should be indicated on the front of the packaging.
we are all aware that natural disasters are on the rise as climate change leads to more extreme weather events, and when faced with disasters of this magnitude the national capacity to respond is simply overwhelmed.
so let me conclude, mr president, by saying that we all recognise that emergency situations have massive human, economic and environmental cost.
as regards the situation in poland, i would like to point out that before this year's floods, environmental ngos repeatedly drew attention to the incorrect implementation of the flood directive in the polish legal order, and in particular to the lack of an appropriate flood inventory system and their unclear legal status.
the european environment agency needs to be more involved in prevention.
these losses, whether human, material or environmental, require real european solidarity.
i would like to begin by thanking my colleague guido milan for his report on a new impetus for a sustainable european aquaculture strategy.
the key to success will be the european commission's presentation of a single solution covering not only all product categories and environmental aspects of the sector, but also budget lines and market rules, including eu quality labelling.
mr president, on paragraph 10, parliament has always taken the quasi-unanimous position, including in the report on a common european foreign policy on energy, that we always exclude the use of energy as a foreign policy tool.
so, at the end of paragraph 10, i propose to add the following words: ‘excluding the use of energy as a foreign policy tool’.
it is because of their gender that they are exposed to higher occupational risks: acts of physical and psychological violence, sexual abuse, environmental ostracism.
the union needs large partners who will join us in tackling international problems that go beyond the competence of individual countries in areas such as climate change, crisis management and energy security.
- i voted in favour of this report because it contains clear provisions calling on russia not to use energy resources for political purposes.
i am deeply convinced that its creation will have economic, environmental and economic benefits.
in moscow, i met with president medvedev, the chairman of the state duma, boris gryzlov, the chairman of the federation council, sergei mironov, and the ministers of foreign affairs and energy.
i think there is now room for shifting this dialogue away from general discussions on europe 2020 – the kind of general discussion held in the first phase and which i have been participating in for some time – and move towards much more specific issues, such as the five core themes of the strategy: employment policies, r&d innovation, energy efficiency, education and fighting poverty, and monitoring national performance.
just yesterday i had a meeting with the ceo of bp to be sure that they are taking all the necessary measures and that they are drawing all the lessons from that ecological catastrophe.
they gave me assurances that they are taking all the necessary steps to ensure that their operations, particularly those in and around the european union, are undertaken with the safety of citizens and the environment as a corporate priority.we are currently reviewing applicable eu legislation.
in fact we had been working on this before this crisis; at meetings with the baltic states some of our partners, for instance finland, raised the issue of the possible consequences of this kind of ecological catastrophe in the baltics and what could we do.
there is also information that these unrecorded atmospheric phenomena are linked to climate change.
it is of particular importance that co2 emissions from road transport are reduced through appropriate innovation.
it is important that the different modes of transport do not compete artificially with each other, but that they support and complement each other, creating a sustainable transport system.
i would like to draw your attention to a number of aspects of the document, including the need to achieve sustainability in transport by establishing a european transport area.
we cannot ignore the use of energy sources which are sufficiently green, such as biofuels.
examples include the report on the preparations for the nord stream project and the suspicion that all environmental requirements have not been met.
the author opposed the construction of a russian-german gas pipeline on the bottom of the baltic sea, pointing out the dangers to the environment.
at the same time, i wanted to ask the european commission to assess the effectiveness of the early warning mechanisms for interruptions in the supply of energy resources, since we have an agreement with russia signed on 16 november 2009.
mr. chairman, please!
i would like to thank you for this report and say that biowaste should not be seen as a problem, as something that pollutes the environment and has a negative impact on the economy.
by managing bio-waste properly, we can produce renewable energy that contributes to economic growth, reduce climate change through a properly managed recycling process or contribute to reducing soil degradation by using waste to produce high-quality compost.
well, we still don't have a solution to the problem of waste segregation, and just as some municipalities have managed to do that, so many regions, not just in poland, but in the european union, are far behind.
i wanted to thank you for this report which sets out the direction for the management of biodegradable waste.
in this respect, the efficiency of increasing recycling, including composting, which is the best and most natural way to deal with this waste, should be improved.
but it also seems to be a very reasonable view of the possibility of energy recovery.
i would like to give an example of denmark, which has been the largest user of renewable energy in the field of biogas.
this is an example for the whole of europe of how we can manage with renewable energy on such a large scale.
the report 'the european union strategy for the baltic sea region and the role of macro-regions in future cohesion policy' highlights the cooperation of the regions to achieve objectives across a range of policies, including transport, fisheries, energy, agriculture and research.
the priority areas for cooperation within the macro-region are transport policy and environmental protection.
in the baltic area, effective action to combat pollution and ecosystem damage cannot be achieved without integrated action by each of the countries bordering the region.
secondly, cooperation within the macro-region is undoubtedly beneficial and contributes to creating a favourable environment for innovation.
i am convinced that the european union's strategy for the baltic sea region will contribute to its sustainable development.
as the report rightly emphasises, there is a need to reduce the region's dependence on russian energy supplies.
environmental protection and transport infrastructure are very important pillars of this strategy.
i believe that the eu strategy for the baltic sea region is a legitimate initiative to improve the effectiveness of the implementation of various european policies, such as cohesion policy, transport policy, maritime policy, environmental policy, innovation policy.
the baltic sea region is characterised by extensive, multi-level cooperation in the fields of economics, environmental protection and broadly defined social development.
we must therefore distinguish between the major objectives and the instruments for making economic union more competitive, bringing together the synergies of all europeans in the various sectors of energy, industry, innovation, research, competitiveness and, if we could, employment and others.
we will work and do everything in our power and, moreover, this parliament has on more than one occasion called on spain to protect its coastline and the environment.
and we must, from this great institution which is the european parliament, defend the protection of the coast and combat abuses that can affect natural areas, environmental areas and the coastline, which we are so determined to defend.
the document addresses several sensitive issues: the environment, energy and the external dimension.
the rapporteur, mathieu grosch, proposed very ambitious targets to be achieved by 2020. among other things, he advocated increased road safety, a 40% reduction in fatalities, a 20% reduction in carbon dioxide emissions from road transport, and a doubling of the number of passengers on buses, trams, and railways.
tighter rules on industrial gas emissions and meeting environmental obligations are the main objectives of the changes to the regulations for industrial installations in the european union.
the draft directive on industrial emissions, which combines and updates eight existing directives, is crucial for improving the state of the environment and air quality in the european union.
each country's energy sector has its own specificity and energy security policy, at least until we adopt a common, uniform energy policy.
poland's energy sector is about 95% coal-based.
the adoption of the initial requirements of the new directive would result in a serious threat to the energy security of poland and other countries in our part of europe, which are in a similar situation, have similar specificities of this sector.
in this context, it is a good idea to enable member states to meet their environmental targets by establishing transitional national plans to allow for the periodic application of more lenient emission limits.
however, legislative changes in the field of the environment should always be geared towards setting targets that can be achieved by all member states.
the compromise text restored many of the council's original assumptions, which took into account the fact that many countries are unable to meet the environmental standards set by the council because of their dependence on coal or geographical conditions.
i believe that this approach to reducing emissions and setting high standards is the right one, because it is rational and realistic to implement.
poland is participating, and will continue to participate, in the implementation of the european energy strategy, and we therefore welcomed the compromise reached in the trilogue on the draft directive on industrial emissions.
poland has a unique fuel structure in the world: more than 90% of electricity and heat is produced with indigenous coal, which is the security and high energy independence of our country.
the transitional periods for large combustion plants (lcps) in terms of so2 and nox emissions are particularly important for us.
the transitional periods will allow the phasing out of generation facilities and their replacement by modern power units with the highest possible generation efficiency to be spread over the period 2016-2023. this investment process, which has been launched in our country, also aims at fuel diversification in line with the current energy policy until 2030. it will reduce the share of solid fuels in electricity generation to below 60%.
at the same time, it should be noted that poland will have to make a huge effort to achieve a 20% share of renewable energy in 2020, improve energy efficiency and technologically transform the energy produced to a low co2 emissions target by 2020, in order to implement the requirements of the energy and climate package.
the legislative process for the ippc industrial emissions directive, which is of eu-wide relevance, is slowly coming to a close.
reducing pollution to the proposed level will mean that many old plants will have to be replaced by new ones, which is a bigger problem than reducing carbon emissions.
according to the polish ministry of the environment, the introduction of industrial emissions legislation will increase the price of heat by one fifth.
in line with the europe 2020 strategy, which is to be translated into national programmes, sustainable jobs are the main objective.
there is a general consensus that we need to rebuild our industrial policy, or, as mr verhofstadt said, a new pan-european infrastructure market, without which we cannot talk about sustainable and balanced development.
he's also a big climate activist.
the promotion of a low-carbon economy cannot be achieved at the expense of stifling central and eastern european industry by implementing the drastic co2 reduction mandate.
the president of the commission also referred to it in his speech: it is clear that the absolute priority must be to restore sufficient and sustainable economic growth, mr van brempt, and that is, mr verhofstadt, through the solution of financial supervision.
we need to use all available technologies to help reduce industrial emissions and thus protect the environment.
in addition to their fundamental environmental functions as the most sustainable ecosystems and an integral part of the planet's landscape, forests are also important in cultural and social terms, especially in rural areas.
this will protect competitiveness in the union wood market and help to control the progressive climate change while preserving biodiversity.
our citizens know very well that in the face of big problems – fragile states, pandemics, energy security, climate change and illegal migration – we are much more effective together.
it will represent europe, but i believe it should also pursue the objectives which are fundamental to the union and to all our countries, such as the european union's energy policy.
it should therefore be composed of experts in the fields of economics, economic development or energy.
therefore, for example, representatives of the dg for energy should be represented.
a ban on offshore drilling in europe or the us will only have one consequence: a significant increase in oil transport by tankers, which will cause obvious damage to the environment.
we are all aware of the scale and magnitude of the environmental disaster that has occurred in the gulf of mexico.
in the meantime, there was also a debate in the environment committee.
millions of gallons of oil have been pouring into the gulf for three months now, devastating the entire ecosystem in the region.
the creation of such a fund would provide a form of security and would be an expression of environmental and social responsibility for the company's own investments.
none of us doubts that the cap should contribute to ensuring food security in the form of good and healthy food for the coming decades, as well as to preserving biodiversity and protecting the environment.
in taking on new challenges, the cap must continue to take environmental values and food safety into account.
without this, it is very difficult to modernise farms and to maintain the positive environmental and cultural impact of agriculture.
in the mean time, we have the problem of climate change and the world has changed since then.
in conclusion, sustainable development of agriculture and rural areas should be a priority.
this implies not only the safeguard mechanism, but also all other aspects of the fta, notably including sustainable development provisions and disciplines relating to non-tariff barriers.
free trade, participation in the world market, are the engines of development, but only if all parties respect environmental and labour standards and there are no other forms of state support, and thus trade is on a fully competitive basis.
but i think that those who talk about the need to take the market more seriously are forgetting that the market cannot solve everything when it comes to security, whether it is energy security or, as in this case, food security.
without structural reforms, we will not create sustainable growth.
our goal is to have a reformed financial sector in place by the end of 2011. sound government finances and responsible financial markets give us the confidence and economic strength for sustainable growth.
our goal is growth – sustainable and inclusive growth.
energy is a key driver for growth and a central priority for action.
we need to complete the internal market for energy, build and interconnect energy grids, and ensure energy security and solidarity.
we need to do for energy what we have done for mobile phones: give real choice for consumers in one european marketplace.
this will give us a real energy community in europe.
we need to make frontiers irrelevant for pipelines or power cables, to have the infrastructure for solar and wind energy, and to ensure that across the whole of europe we have a common standard so that charging electric car batteries becomes as natural as filling up the tank.
over the next year, we will bring forward an energy action plan, an infrastructure package and an energy efficiency action plan to put this vision in place.
to build a resource-efficient europe, we need to look beyond energy.
our carbon emissions increased 17 times.
that means we have to deliver on our climate and energy package, as a core driver for change.
this means integrating the different strands of policy on climate change, energy, transport and environment into a coherent approach on resource efficiency and a low carbon future.
a forward-looking agricultural sector will play a major role in european measures to address some of the biggest challenges ahead, such as global food security, biodiversity loss and the sustainable management of natural resources.
we need sustainable growth, and we also need smart growth.
energy interconnections, research, and development aid are obvious examples where a euro spent at european level gets you more than a euro spent at national level.
a good example is the fight against climate change.
negotiations may have stalled but climate change has not.
i want us to intensify our engagement with international partners to turn their press releases into credible commitments to cut emissions and push forward with fast-start funding.
i have set out how to modernise our social market economy to deliver growth and jobs in a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy through our europe 2020 flagship initiatives.
i have set out how to achieve a common energy policy in europe.
it is a very hostile area with a particularly harsh climate.
this policy will be based essentially, firstly, on the management of the population to ensure the ownership of security policy, on the assistance to vulnerable populations by meeting basic needs and, above all, on sustainable access to basic social services, on the adoption of new measures for the implementation of this security policy, on the strengthening of the recovery programmes for small arms and light weapons, in the context of the fight against their proliferation, and on the establishment of subregional cooperation to enable us to act locally.
this is a major obstacle to a stable life for citizens and, as a result, to a sustainable economy.
green trends in development and industrial innovation are intended to help achieve employment growth while contributing to environmental protection.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety points out that environmentally friendly technologies imposed as a requirement in agriculture will contribute to the employment and income of farmers.
− the european council defines development as sustainable if it meets the needs of present generations in a way that does not limit the ability of future generations to meet their needs.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states.
in the transition to a sustainable economy, we must also consider social justice, because it will ensure the acceptance of citizens.
sustainable development requires not only environmental standards but also labour standards.
first, the pakistani floods are only one of many reminders that the impact of climate change is profound.
looking at the resulting cost, it is very important to focus on disaster preparedness and also on rebuilding a highly vulnerable country devastated by a disaster in a way that is resilient to the risk of climate change.
taking a cautious approach, i cannot claim that these floods are caused by climate change.
i certainly know, however, that scientific opinion is very clear that the increased frequency and intensity of disasters is due to climate change.
thirdly, we must strike a sustainable balance between support for existing jobs and the creation of new ones.
for these reasons, this whole debate is once again a complete waste of time.
i believe that these are balanced, sustainable solutions, and that they are appropriate to our times and to the aspirations of civilization.
in the current economic climate, this is a good step, showing the commitment and responsibility of the eu institutions for the economy and employment.
aspects such as increasing the employment rate, reducing structural unemployment, developing a skilled workforce, promoting quality employment and lifelong learning, increasing higher education, combating poverty and social exclusion must be implemented as they guarantee a sustainable economy and strengthen the potential for job creation.
it has been rightly said that investment in sustainable growth and the elimination of socioeconomic disparities between member states and regions should be combined with the creation of sustainable jobs.
− on the basis of the commission communication entitled 'possible options for post-2010 with regard to the european union's biodiversity perspective and objectives', the council adopted on 15 march 2010 conclusions entitled 'biodiversity: post-2010 vision and objectives at eu and global level, and international access and benefit-sharing regime'.
in its conclusions, the council expressed its serious concern that the 2010 biodiversity targets have not been met at eu and global level, that biodiversity loss is continuing at an unacceptable rate and that it has very serious ecological, economic and social consequences.
however, he stressed that these objectives played an essential role in enabling useful measures to be put in place to promote biodiversity.
it set out a long-term vision that by 2050 biodiversity in the european union and the ecosystem services it provides, its natural capital, will be protected, valued and restored in an appropriate manner, taking into account the intrinsic value of biodiversity and its essential contribution to human well-being and economic prosperity, in such a way that catastrophic changes caused by biodiversity loss are avoided.
it also set a headline target of halting biodiversity loss and the degradation of ecosystem services in the european union by 2020, ensuring their restoration as far as possible, while enhancing the eu's contribution to preventing biodiversity loss globally.
in the context of the eu's priorities for the protection and enhancement of biodiversity, the council noted that the destruction, fragmentation and degradation of habitats are the main threats to biodiversity.
as regards the origin of this habitat situation, the council highlighted the harmful change in land use, the over-exploitation and unsustainable use of natural resources, invasive alien species, the illicit trade in endangered species, ocean acidification and, of course, pollution.
climate change could also, increasingly, even exacerbate some of the effects, for example, on the number of species threatened with extinction.
with regard to the europe 2020 strategy, the council's broad economic policy guidelines call on the member states and the union to put measures in place, to turn environmental challenges into growth opportunities and to use natural resources more efficiently, thus also contributing to ensuring biodiversity.
the role of biodiversity was also clearly underlined by the european council in its conclusions of march 2010, when it stated that there is an urgent need to reverse the persistent trend of biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation.
the european council endorses the long-term vision for biodiversity by 2050 and the 2020 target set out in the council conclusions of 15 march 2010 referred to above.
the assessment made by the presidency, which we intend to go into in more detail in our next discussions, confirms the relevance of the objectives of the cap as reaffirmed in the lisbon treaty: ensuring the supply of safe and quality food for european citizens, maintaining sustainable agriculture throughout the european territory, protecting the environment and landscapes and contributing to the sustainable development of rural areas we discussed in the previous question.
we have great scientific potential, but we don't have a full picture of the far-reaching implications of the use of new technologies, what it will do to biodiversity, to the balance of species and to human and animal health.
if european law does not have a positive impact on the economy, the environment and society, then all our work is meaningless.
the first point on which i think we all agree, and the financial crisis is clear proof of that, is that regulation has a positive and necessary role in assuring that markets deliver sustainable prosperity for all.
the basic idea is to simplify eu law and create a friendly legal environment that will make it easier for citizens to function in this tangle of european regulations.
with electronic communications, we can save time, eliminate many administrative barriers, reduce the consumption of natural resources and thus better protect the environment.
he was better known as the ‘environmental mayor’ for his great work to improve the natural environment in his region.
the united nations general assembly has designated 2010 as the international year of biodiversity.
this year's celebrations are an opportunity to launch a global campaign to raise public awareness of biodiversity.
according to the april 2010 eurobarometer, only 38% of respondents knew the definition of biodiversity.
it is necessary to highlight the importance of biodiversity for the quality of human life, to showcase the achievements of the past in the field of the conservation of natural resources and to encourage further increased efforts to prevent the loss of biodiversity.
i think that this is an initiative that the commission could take to create natural heritage days, to increase the visibility and the importance of biodiversity.
i also think and would like to ask that, as the nagoya conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity approaches, it is necessary for the european union to present its position on the post-2020 biodiversity strategy, and this will concern both financial policy and the common agreement between the eu countries on the aspects that should be implemented in future in the member states' legislation.
our discussion of biodiversity is very important, but it seems that we are missing one very important thread in it, and that is genetically modified crops.
this is a great threat to biodiversity.
this is a vision of agriculture as very dangerous to biodiversity.
if we were to have these large genetically modified monoculture crops, we would pay the price of biodiversity loss.
i would like to say that today - and this is also a reference to mr echeverría's report - we need a good commercial model which, on the one hand, protects copyright and creators and, on the other, allows people to buy works, literary works, films at a sustainable price.
the next item is the report by alejo vidala-quadrasa, drawn up on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on measures to safeguard the security of natural gas supply and repealing directive 2004/67/ec (com ((2009) 0363 - c7-0097/2009 - 2009/0108 (cod)) (a7-0112/2010).
gas is an important factor in our energy policy and the strategy is clear: we want, firstly, an efficient european legal framework for the security of gas supply; secondly, we want to diversify our sources and routes of import; we want to continue to build and expand the necessary infrastructure; and we need a common line when it comes to european interests with our energy partners and transit countries, all on the basis of a functioning internal market.
this draft regulation is the first to be based on the comprehensive energy article since the new treaty of lisbon.
we welcome the house's call for a common european approach, for early prevention, for new technical possibilities such as reverse flows, for the development of infrastructure and for a common energy foreign policy.
the commission wants to act early to ensure a common approach to our external energy relations.
(applause from the centre)
author of the draft opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the ability to move quickly anywhere in europe (high-speed rail, road and air links) and for security, including energy security.
for several years now we have been calling in this parliament for energy supply to be treated as a strategic political issue.
− mr president, energy security is one of the key elements for safeguarding the future.
the question is not if, but how, the community should act in order to make member states secure in the energy field.
as for the legislative package that has been negotiated in a very effective manner by the rapporteur, mr vidal-quadras, i would estimate that, when compared with initial ambitions, two-thirds of the goal of providing energy security for the eu as a whole have been reached.
however, there are some important omissions, especially in the external dimension of eu energy policy.
this regulation could of course have been better, but it still remains the most tangible opportunity, the most tangible guarantee of the eu's energy policy in the face of the supply crisis and should therefore be given the widest possible support by our house in the vote today.
energy security is one of the most important conditions for sovereignty today.
it is a good thing that by adopting the new regulation we are finally starting to build a common energy policy.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, alejo vidala-quadras, who faced the extremely difficult challenge of producing a report on energy security issues in the supply of gas to the european union last year.
poland is currently facing a serious energy crisis, with a deficit of 1.7 billion cubic metres.
i would like to thank the rapporteur very much for having reached a compromise, which is particularly difficult in the energy field.
the energy issue is in modern europe the factor that determines the independence of many countries, and that is why i am surprised to hear those voices in this room who say that this is only an energy issue, that this is only an economic issue, that this is all we are discussing.
many countries in europe are treating the energy issue, and rightly so because that is the facts, as a factor in their independence.
the russians are playing two pianos on energy.
the commissioner said that this was the first document on energy matters since the lisbon treaty.
indeed, energy solidarity was a key principle, including that of my country, poland, in the lisbon treaty, and the gas crises, in particular the 2009 crisis, but also those that preceded it, have shown that without the energy market, without infrastructure, including interconnectors, new networks, new sources of supply, the coordinating role of the european commission, and above all - and i stress this very strongly - without the political will of the commission, the council and the member states, we will not be able to prevent gas crises.
the regulation we are voting on today is a milestone in the construction of a community energy policy.
this is clearly demonstrated by the provisions relating to energy solidarity, which ensure the functioning of the legal instruments enabling a community response based on solidarity in crisis situations.
however, it is worth paying attention to the activities undertaken in the field of energy policy.
the treaty of lisbon, in paragraph 194, clearly outlines important priorities in this area: the creation of a single energy market, the security of gas supply, energy efficiency and savings, and the promotion of energy network connections and actions to reduce dependence on energy imports.
the european commission's document 'towards a new energy strategy for europe 2011-2020' is a further step in this direction.
it is a further step towards a comprehensive energy policy in the context of the eu 2020 strategy, but also a further step towards the objectives of the lisbon treaty.
the report i have prepared and which i am now working on in parliament also shows that the community method is particularly important in the energy field.
the two-way transmission of energy will enable a country in energy distress to receive the necessary help from another country that has the resources at its disposal.
referring to the issue of energy diversification will allow member states to step up their efforts in this area and will support projects already under way such as nabucco.
the provisions on transmission infrastructure, the eu-wide crisis response system and the joint risk assessment and the development of prevention and crisis plans based on it, as well as the introduction of a geopolitical aspect in this assessment, prove not only the success of the negotiations of the parliamentarians, but also lay the foundations for the communitisation of energy policy, which parliament already sought in the last term.
this document is a step towards a true european energy community.
compliance with quality standards is particularly important in environmental protection, including climate, but also in social and socio-political matters and in respect of human rights.
this document is, in my view, the beginning of the construction of a common energy policy.
the commission has also proposed to strengthen the rules on the protection of the environment by introducing a new environmental law.
however, financial support is necessary to ensure that farmers do not bear all the costs of biodiversity conservation.
the eu does not have much gas of its own, and is putting fuel into it, but the coal it does have will soon (even in such situations) not be used because of the european commission's belief in the unlikely hypothesis of anthropogenic climate change.
russia is not concerned and, counting on a large external input, is switching to coal and nuclear energy.
i voted for this regulation, but it must be realised that it only solves a small part of the energy security problem.
the harmful regulations contained in the climate and energy package will inevitably lead to the loss of my country, poland, of its current security.
- i fully agree with the authors of the report that the preservation of biodiversity is not only an ethical duty, but also has ecological and economic value and is crucial to mitigating climate change.
in particular, those that focus on creating resilient ecosystems that can respond to stress and perform valuable ecosystem functions, and not just those that focus on habitat and species conservation under this program.
the need for a sensible compromise between environmental protection and infrastructure development is a pressing issue.
it is my belief that when what is at stake is human life, as well as the environment, economy, and security of any nation or region, the issue becomes less a political one and more so a moral one.
the report rightly points out that the root cause of natural disasters is man's mismanagement of the environment.
the harmonisation of the rules should cover the entire life cycle of these products on the market, from production to waste disposal, so that they do not endanger the environment and human health.
this will ensure that nanomaterials, which can have a very significant impact on technological development, are not excluded from the market and do not endanger the environment and consumer health.
so we must start by changing the fundamentals, so that european finances are more sustainable and transparent, so that we as parliament are not used as firefighters who have to go and put out fires every now and then.
reaching out through the model of strategic environmental assessment could be of help here.
in particular, i believe transport and energy policies should be territory-proof.
it is a kind of bridge-building between ecological balance, economic efficiency and social cohesion to ensure development opportunities for all in these difficult regions.
not for the sake of making serious budget cuts, as we are going to do now, not for the sake of reducing debt, but to have sustainable economic growth, to have a fruitful employment policy.
− marielle gallo, in her report on improving the enforcement of intellectual property rights in the internal market, highlights the role and importance of intellectual property rights, patent law, the fight against counterfeiting in health and safety sensitive sectors, the creation and promotion of formats accessible to disabled people, the creation of a single market in the digital environment, industrial espionage online and the theft of industrial property data.
to this end, the support of the international community, in particular the european union and its member states, for the electoral process to be held between 2011 and 2013 will be particularly important in establishing a political environment based on democratic principles and the rule of law.
in particular, the chapters which are still to be examined by the member states and which could, if appropriate, be provisionally concluded if they consider that the closure criteria they have set have been met by croatia are: competition policy (chapter 8), agriculture and rural development (chapter 11), fisheries (chapter 13), regional policy and coordination of structural instruments (chapter 22), the judiciary and fundamental rights (chapter 23), justice, freedom and security (chapter 24), the environment (chapter 27), external security and defence policy (chapter 31) and financial and budgetary provisions (chapter 33).
wednesdayadded to agenda: council and commission statements on the social provisions of the lisbon treaty following the joint debate on biodiversity.
i will now address the issue of climate change – obviously very superficially because of the time constraints here.
while it is a fact that the rich and powerful contributed most to the deteriorating world environment, we acknowledge that the advance of science, technology and industries in the last 200 years has brought enormous benefits to all, even if those benefits have been distributed in an unequal manner.
asia has no less responsibility than the us and europe to reverse the climate calamity.
to modernise our economies and improve the lives of hundreds of millions of the poor in asia, we are using increasingly more energy extracted from planet earth.
many of the emerging powers of asia are also now crossing oceans, searching for energy elsewhere – in africa and latin america.
therefore timor leste – working together with the maldives, two of the smallest countries in asia – calls for an asian common agenda on sustainable development anchored on environmental protection and recovery, on land and water management, health and education for all, and on the elimination of poverty and illiteracy.
we believe that one wise and fair way to assist countries suffering from the consequences of the financial meltdown is to write off the debt owed by the ldcs and small island developing states and to restructure the debt of the debtor countries that are facing enormous internal and external challenges – such as instability, climate change and extremism – in many parts of the world, particularly in south asia and the region of the great lakes of africa.
but acting on emotion is not always rational, and that is why i would urge that we take very, very, very careful steps to impose new obligations on companies, whether it be insurance, whether it be environmental standards, whether it be safety standards, because those standards in the european union are already the highest in the world.
the moratorium means more ships coming to european shores, and therefore more threats to the environment.
we therefore support commissioner oettinger's efforts to review the legal framework for oil exploitation on european seas and, if necessary, to introduce the new rules needed to address the risks of offshore oil production and to strengthen the liability rules for oil pollution accidents.
in addition to optimal safety standards, the preparation of natural resource extraction and transport companies for emergencies that may cause large-scale environmental pollution should also be a key issue.
i think this is a perfect opportunity to ask whether the european commission has done anything to safeguard the interests of the millions of europeans living on the baltic who could be victims of an ecological disaster of unprecedented scale as a result of the explosion or the opening of this pipeline.
it is worth recalling that the european parliament's resolution on this matter two years ago, on the preparation of the environmental impact of this investment, has been completely ignored and this investment is already underway.
the unprecedented environmental disaster in the gulf of mexico should prompt the eu countries to monitor rigs in the waters where oil is extracted.
there are even proposals to impose a moratorium on new drilling until the risk of environmental danger is eliminated.
they are based on the assumption that the oceans have no boundaries and that an ecological disaster is threatening them all.
this is in line with the european parliament's resolution on the environmental threat to the baltic sea posed by the nordstream project two years ago.
in view of the events of the past few months and the complex situation on the fuel market following the disaster in the gulf of mexico, we should take certain and decisive steps to protect the environment and, above all, to prevent similar disasters in the future.
sustainable and competitive investment patterns will be crucial.
cohesion policy is a major source of european public investment and must work as a catalyst for structural change by investing in research and innovation, resource efficiency, new and sustainable jobs and infrastructure.
the key issue for post-2013 reform of cohesion policy is how to make it more effective in generating growth, jobs and competitiveness for the european economy in a sustainable way.
i am therefore concerned that we are planning to reform cohesion policy by adding new criteria, very vague social or environmental criteria, to the system for allocating these funds.
cohesion policy should go beyond spatial development policy and should integrate sectoral policies such as transport, energy, education, research, development and employment.
cohesion policy is the basis for achieving sustainable development of urban and rural areas, taking into account their specificities and capabilities.
i would also like to express my sympathy and solidarity with my colleagues in hungary for what they are going through at the moment with this toxic waste.
the highest standards for hazardous waste in europe must also be established.
but the european community could only approve and support the reunification of the two germanys, which it did at the european council in dublin on 24 april 1990. in doing so, and in taking note of the assurances given regarding the sustainability and fairness of the arrangements concluded at the level of the '2+4', the community was simply remaining faithful to the values which animate it: peace, mutual understanding between peoples, solidarity, and in particular with all germans, east and west.
secondly, it is another very important step aimed at stabilising the situation in the region and creating a positive climate for further reforms and the future integration of all balkan countries into the european union.
the unimaginable damage that the spill has done to the gulf of mexico ecosystem and the southern coast of the united states should be a powerful incentive for us to act.
− the european union is concerned about the rapid rate of biodiversity loss and the failure to meet the global biodiversity target for 2010 of significantly reducing the rate of biodiversity loss.
i support the belief that there are many links between climate protection and the achievement of the millennium development goals and the reduction of biodiversity loss.
actions to protect biodiversity have a positive impact on climate change adaptation and mitigation strategies.
i agree with the call in the resolution to support efforts to strengthen the synergies and links between biodiversity and climate policy.
however, to help prevent these global problems, a radical increase in global funds for biodiversity conservation is needed, particularly through existing sources of funding as well as through new, innovative sources, including new and innovative market instruments.
- biodiversity affects the lives of all of us.
the effects of climate change include avalanche deforestation, declining fish stocks, and the disappearance of species.
it is worthwhile to realize that the loss of biodiversity negatively affects the activities of ecosystems and the services they provide, such as food supply, water purification, soil fertilization, flood protection and energy production.
biodiversity is threatened by many factors, such as climate change, uncontrolled urban sprawl, and invasive alien species.
it's agriculture, which is often cited as one of the threats to biodiversity.
surely it can be said that industrial agriculture is not good for the environment.
but i think the far greater environmental risk is that we're going to abandon agriculture.
its effective implementation is essential for further modernisation and for ensuring sustainable, stable economic growth and job creation in europe.
i say this in the context of the economic backdrop and climate in which this service is coming into being, and you have a full commitment from me that there will be a cost-effective service.
it is only the beginning and the challenge is well worth our ambitions, but i am sure we can count on the high representative, lady ashton, to take it up with energy and determination.
a young person growing up in such an environment has neither the opportunities nor the appropriate role models to escape the cycle of poverty in the future.
i would like to focus on three global challenges: first, tackling extreme poverty around the world; second, confronting climate change; and third, building a world free of nuclear weapons.
investment in clean and renewable energy is crucial for jumpstarting jobs and innovation.
our second great challenge is climate change.
however, we must always be careful about linking specific weather events to climate change.
we must take action now to reduce climate risks, strengthen our resilience, and support developing countries in pursuing clean energy growth.
at the upcoming un climate change conference in cancun, we must capture progress on those issues where there is consensus.
there is no time to waste.
my high level advisory group on climate change financing has been working this year and they will come up with several options as to how to generate usd 100 billion annually for developing countries by 2020. climate change is a crucial part of the broader agenda on sustainable development.
that is why i recently established a new high level panel on global sustainability, co-chaired by president halonen of finland and president zuma of south africa.
their job will be to connect the many different dots which are interconnected, and to find the right path through the interlinked economic, social and environmental challenges of the coming decades.
now, when governments are not moving when the train has hit the buffers in our talks on climate change or other issues europe can be the locomotive, driving it forward.
i have mentioned three today: the fight against poverty, climate change and the achievement of a world without nuclear weapons.
the main responsibility of this organisation is to promote international cooperation to improve the sustainable management of marine resources on the high seas, based on the basic principles of scientific research.
− the rapporteur understands 'uncertain work' as employment which is characterised by low job security, low pay, lack of social protection and employment benefits, lack of protection against discrimination, limited opportunities for promotion on the labour market, collective representation of workers and a work environment which does not meet minimum safety and health standards.
i would like to mention a few, especially those which are costly, namely the new areas of action in the framework of the policy to combat climate change, in the framework of the energy policy; it opens up new areas of action for the european union on the global stage, i.e.
the ecological disaster in hungary has affected us all with its scale and extremely tragic consequences.
for example, in poland, lower silesia, there is the largest landfill of liquid waste in europe, which was created in the 1970s.
we talk a lot about sustainability in terms of gender, geography, we point to the transparency of recruitment based on known principles and rules, but the most important thing is the quality and effectiveness of the sdh, which is why the substantive criteria related to staff recruitment are so important.
this is not about representing the eu institutions, but about preparing these people in the various areas of the union's activities, such as the difficult issues of energy, trade, agriculture, not to mention human rights and terrorism.
finally, we also need to take practical positive steps, both in terms of the future visa-free regime and economic cooperation, particularly in the energy sector, while at the same time awaiting the democratic development of ukraine.
and that would be the task of the next resolution that we could create after the elections, where we could look at energy, the economy and other issues that are important to ukraine.
on 8 february of that year, ferries from poland to sweden were directly threatened the finnish freighter linda, which was sailing from rotterdam to st. petersburg, lost three containers containing 8.3 tonnes of substances classified as dangerous for the environment, 7 tonnes of products dangerous for marine organisms and 5.5 tonnes of flammable substances on the route of polish and swedish vessels.
it is not only intended to support sustainable social, economic and political development but also the gradual integration of these countries into the world economy.
as a member of the committee on agriculture and the committee on the environment, i would like to draw attention to another benefit of this cooperation, namely international cooperation in the management of natural resources, environmental protection and care for biodiversity.
european standards guarantee respect for the environment and the health and safety of consumers, which affects the competitiveness of our products.
the framework should take into account the need to strengthen economic development, increase employment in the sector and protect the environment.
at the same time, the aim is to eliminate threats such as piracy, illegal fishing and environmental pollution.
an integrated maritime policy covering transport, administration, environmental protection, management of marine resources and maritime tourism is important.
until now, the eu's maritime policy has been developed separately in areas such as maritime transport, the maritime economy, new technologies, coastal areas, marine energy, fisheries, law and order at sea, tourism, protection of the marine environment and marine research.
it is clear that an integrated maritime policy will contribute to the continued sustainable economic development of the european union.
it will, inter alia, ensure greater coherence between different policy areas, develop better regulatory and cross-cutting instruments, and exploit the potential of the marine and maritime sectors in an economic and environmental way.
the pursuit of sustainable exploitation and an integrated approach to the management of oceans, seas and coasts should be one of the priorities of the european union.
a poor country like zimbabwe cannot afford to waste time and money investing in alternative topics.
the european union is also committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment, and to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
after the copenhagen climate summit, after the disrespect of the spanish presidency by barack obama, the americans once again humiliated us and the whole world by making a unilateral decision to print money.
we need constructive, deeper cooperation in areas such as the economic and financial crisis, the fight against terrorism, global stabilisation, peace in the middle east, non-proliferation, development aid and climate change.
another climate summit is coming up in cancun.
i hope that the united states will show more commitment when it comes to our collective commitments to fight climate change.
the recent ecological disaster off the coast of the gulf of mexico has shown that disasters know no borders, and their effects are felt globally - ultimately by our citizens.
these threats are well known enough that i do not have to go into them here, and the european union also wants the issue of energy security to be dealt with in the context of conflict resolution.
the economic and environmental dimension must be reinvigorated, good governance and transparency commitments better implemented, and the response to the challenge of energy security posed by climate change better ensured.
at the same time, a balance must be maintained between these three pillars, namely the political-military, the economic-environmental and the human dimension.
the traditional understanding of security through hard power, which is about providing security through the presence of military forces or stabilizing forces, is as important as economic, social, food or environmental security.
so i would simply like to conclude by saying that the astana summit, hosted by kazakhstan, offers our highest officials an important opportunity to free ourselves from the burdens of the past, to engage in building a security community from vancouver to vladivostok - as you have mentioned, mr rouček - and to reflect on the new tasks that lie ahead of us in the political and security environment of the 21st century.
we need this explicit support to honour the dignity of the person, to organise free and fair elections, to coordinate our energies against transnational threats and to achieve harmonious economic and social development in a sustainable environment.
i will support any proposal to increase eu funding to support energy projects.
it is also worth supporting the so-called green energy.
but let's be honest: the idea that green energy is the solution to all europe's energy problems is often an illusion.
we want to develop green energy, but at the same time we are completely ignoring the development of shale gas extraction techniques and not allocating the necessary resources.
it is a pity that we are not talking today about large investments that will really solve energy problems, that will bring the european community together and develop it, and that we are talking about important measures relating to green energy.
we are debating an absolutely fundamental issue at the moment, not only in terms of economic issues, but in terms of the wider issue of european solidarity, because when it comes to energy, this is really the biggest challenge and the biggest test of whether this european solidarity can work in practice, whether it will be only at the level of a slogan, a slogan, or also what european taxpayers and voters certainly care about will be implemented in concrete projects that will build european unity, that will show that in europe individual countries help each other, build joint projects and reject situations in which some countries outside the european union get along with other countries over the heads of the european union.
in response to the financial crisis, the european commission proposed in january 2009 to allocate €5 billion of the european union's unspent funds mainly to support energy projects that would contribute to economic recovery in the european union.
the proposed european energy agenda should be welcomed.
at the same time, i believe that we should demand that projects on energy efficiency and renewable energy sources, which stimulate economic growth, create additional employment opportunities and help to combat climate change, be given additional consideration in the design.
there is also cooperation in the fields of scientific research and education, culture and the environment.
i am convinced that the abolition of visas for taiwanese nationals will contribute to further boosting trade relations and relations in the fields of research, education, culture and the environment and to increasing tourism between the eu and taiwan.
therefore, a reform of the stability and growth pact is necessary to enable member states to meet their commitment to make their pension systems more sustainable.
therefore, this article allows the sustainable exploitation of living water resources.
it must lead to sustainable and more efficient management of marine resources.
the union must immediately address the issue of industrial fishing in the baltic sea through the common fisheries policy, given that these fisheries are ecologically dangerous for the baltic ecosystem, especially since the baltic sea has the status of a particularly sensitive marine area granted by the marine environment protection committee of the international maritime organisation and is therefore one of the most valuable and vulnerable marine ecosystems on our planet.
in view of the climate change occurring in the baltic sea, which is causing changes in the adaptation of various fish species and consequently their movement and their breeding sites, it is necessary to revise the protection areas in the baltic sea and to establish a long-term management plan for flatfish species in that water.
i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, jillian evans, as well as the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, for the excellent work carried out on this proposal.
rohs has a successful piece of legislation since it was adopted in 2003. it has prevented thousands of tonnes of banned substances from being thrown away and potentially released into the environment.
on average, each eu citizen produces 25 kg of electronic waste every year.
this law will ensure that electronic products are freed from many hazardous substances and will make this large waste stream easier to recycle.
the status quo is insufficient, not only in terms of protection of the environment, but also in terms of creating a level playing field within the eu.
the key element for the commission is to ensure alignment with reach, but real environmental benefits only arise when a law is properly implemented and enforced at national level.
in addition, the directive’s environmental ambition is improved through the extension of the product coverage, first by the two new categories – medical devices and monitoring and control instruments – and, in eight years, to all electronic products.
further extensions to the scope of this law will further increase the environmental benefits, but economic operators should of course have sufficient time to adapt, and all scope changes should be based on solid information.
the rohs directive is one of those pieces of legislation that brings together the environment and sustainable development and the free movement of goods.
its environmental work to date has led to a spectacular reduction in heavy metals in the waste electrical and electronic equipment stream and the emergence of innovative technologies.
the new rules will oblige all manufacturers of electrical and electronic equipment to use tested and safe substances for health and the environment.
i think the compromise that's been negotiated is a good one, and it's good for the environment and for the elimination of toxic substances in equipment and waste.
the draft presented by the european commission is clearly written under the dictates of climate policy without taking into account the social consequences, and in particular the energy consequences, in countries such as germany, spain or poland.
the move away from coal also poses very serious problems for energy security in countries like poland, which generates as much as 95% of its electricity from coal.
so before we decide to put political pressure on the coal industry to move away from coal in these cases, we should ensure diversification, and also security of gas supply, because it is the only viable alternative for the energy sector in countries that use coal for this purpose today.
these are the reasons why we support the compromise tabled by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on industry, research and energy, where we proposed that the regulation should allow national budgets - not eu ones, after all - to maintain mines in countries where this is necessary, and the compromise which suggests that the regulation should be in force until 2030. the european commission's original proposals seem to have been much closer to this position.
given the specificity of the regulation we are debating today, let us not forget that there are member states in the european union that rely mainly on coal for their energy production.
in view of the role of coal in ensuring energy security, it is necessary to stabilise its extraction at the desired level.
coal as a fuel in the energy mix will continue to be key to the energy sector, stabilising europe's energy security.
it's about the cost of the emissions.
this strategy shows that: - there is no understanding of a coherent raw materials and energy policy that favours economic efficiency but also competitiveness; - there is no coherent energy policy that guarantees the security of energy supply; - there is no regulation based on uniform criteria for the whole common market that would lead to fair competition while keeping social costs to a minimum.
the raw materials and energy industries require long-term investment and capital concentration, which means they require subsidies.
cheap energy and raw materials are the basis for the competitiveness of manufacturing, including machinery.
i would point out that the economic problems of the union in the midst of the crisis are not only the result of unfair global financial speculation but also the lack of a wise, uniform and fair industrial policy within the union itself, especially in the area of raw materials and energy.
they imposed a full-scale embargo on my nation in 2006. before that there was a full-scale energy embargo in 2005. they deported our citizens, repeatedly bombed our territory prior to 2008 and finally invaded in 2008. as i speak, these forces still occupy 20% of georgian territory, in blatant violation of international law and of the 12 august ceasefire agreement brokered thanks to the efforts of my good friend and great european leader, french president nicolas sarkozy, who was then president of the european union.
it can also lead to the disruption of aquatic ecosystems and, as a result, of the entire natural environment of our planet.
the baltic sea is particularly vulnerable to the extinction of certain fish species due to climate change, and the failures of european fisheries legislation to prohibit fishing will worsen the situation.
that is why it is so important to revise the common fisheries policy accordingly, so that it can guarantee sustainable fishing in our waters.
i want to make sure that the co2 emissions from polish coal are the same as from russian coal.
the aim is not liquidation per se, but energy security, and we treat the mines as businesses.
i wanted to say that coal is a very important resource for our prosperity and our energy security.
despite research and the search for alternative energy sources, the demand for coal continues to grow.
the draft regulation will ensure that these objectives are achieved, ensuring that the competitiveness of the energy market is maintained and stimulating the development of closely related industries.
− as a member of the delegation to the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, i supported the report on the work of the cap in 2009. i welcome the work of the assembly this year, including in particular the resolutions adopted on the impact of the global crisis on social conditions and on climate change.
as a member of the committee on social affairs and the environment, i believe it is crucial that next year we have a comprehensive analysis and debate on the environmental and social situation in the acp countries.
but i would like to emphasize the role of commissioner lewandowski, who has put all his energy and competence into it, the role of many in parliament, but also the very constructive role of the belgian presidency, which i thank for having done everything and for continuing to do everything to reach an agreement.
it will be a test of our ability to bring about real change for millions of europeans, to use this powerful tool to drive our ambition for a europe geared towards sustainable growth and jobs for the future, a europe strong on the international stage and a europe based on the values we hold dear.
we are developing strategies and drawing up new documents, but there are still many things that have not been achieved, especially in the energy sector.
in any case, i must say that i very much hope that the adoption and implementation of the programme will lead to a more favourable climate for tackling ireland’s financial and economic problems.
given the exceptional importance of the apiculture sector for agricultural production, the preservation of biodiversity or the nutritional value of honey, existing support for the apiculture sector should be maintained and strengthened after 2013. such actions contribute to the improvement of bee health, the increase of bee colonies and the increase of honey production.
this has a very negative impact on the production of fruit, vegetables and other crops pollinated by bees and is a threat to all biodiversity.
[…] given the strong fundamentals of the irish economy, decisive implementation of the programme should allow a return to a robust and sustainable growth, safeguarding the economic and social cohesion.’ i am here quoting the eurogroup and ecofin ministers.
we must not lose sight of the wider challenge of improving europe’s structure and sustainable growth rates and a general economic performance.
in the meantime, our conclusions simply said, and i quote, ‘it is essential that the european union budget and the forthcoming multiannual financial framework reflect the consolidation efforts being made by member states to bring deficit and debt into a more sustainable path.
in this case, our attention focused on the preparation of the g20, the cancún climate change conference and a number of bilateral summits.
cancún will probably only be an intermediate step towards a global framework on tackling climate change.
this intervention should now allow the irish economy to get back on the path to sustainable growth, drawing on its fundamental strengths.
technological developments and the increase in demand for such goods have led to an increase in the amount of so-called 'electronic waste', the problem of its disposal and the impact of this process on environmental pollution.
this is also good news for consumers, as the new rules introduce an obligation to use substances that are safe for health and the environment for all electrical equipment manufacturers across the european union.
as consumers, we expect these devices to be functional and ergonomic, but above all we should expect them to meet the relevant standards, regulating safety standards for both the user and the environment.
we replace old equipment with new ones, producing staggering amounts of waste, and the hazardous substances used to produce them cause irreversible damage to the ecosystem.
experts point out that used electrical and electronic equipment is the fastest growing waste stream.
in addition, the scientific unit öko-institut has demonstrated, on the basis of the analyses carried out, the negative environmental and human health effects of pcw and fluorinated flame retardants.
today we are debating the commission's first energy strategy since lisbon for the period 2011-2020. it should be stressed that both it and the parliament's report reflect the spirit of the lisbon treaty, which expresses energy solidarity and concern for security and energy supply.
the commission's strategy and the parliament's report also emphasise the need to strengthen energy policy and europeanise it.
first, we must urgently implement the current european energy legislation in the member states.
secondly, the common energy market must function well if our common objectives are to be achieved.
this also applies to the european renewable energy market, which needs to be built.
to achieve our objectives, it is therefore necessary to extend and modernise the pan-european and cross-border energy infrastructure.
we know that the approval of the budget for next year is currently fraught with tensions, but even greater tensions will be felt over the financial perspective beyond 2013. however, the expenditure we plan must reflect the political objectives of the european union, namely the energy security of its citizens.
energy policy is increasingly linked to the european union's foreign policy.
our relations with external energy partners should be guided by the rules of europe's internal market.
in conclusion, mr president, the union needs a long-term vision for energy policy.
we need a european energy community.
congratulations on your energy strategy for the next 10 years.
the report highlights all the key challenges facing european energy policy.
we should certainly give our full support in our energy policy to modern technologies, to liquefied gas installations, to geothermal energy, to shale gas.
energy accounts for about 40% of production costs, while labour accounts for only 15%, but the production of raw materials also requires energy.
energy will therefore be the key to economic competitiveness.
the dogma of influencing the global climate and launching a so-called carbon-free economy is nonsense.
the 'binding carbon targets' are examples of socially and economically irresponsible proposals, as is the ccs technology imposed on coal-fired power plants, and why not on other fuels?
i warn you against the public outcry over the link to energy poverty.
in the new eu countries, energy accounts for about 40% of household expenditure.
i also warn against the loss of energy security due to the imposed regulations, especially the climate and energy package.
and one more thing: why can't countries, like the energy mix, decide how to reduce co2 in their own countries?
we are taking up the debate here, and if i take the main points of your speeches, we have a broad energy mix in the european union, in the member states and also in parliament.
i've heard everything from 100 percent renewable energy to fusion and nuclear power and coal.
we are currently working on the strategy, which includes the three objectives of 20% renewable energy, 20% co2 reduction and 20% efficiency.
this will bring the road map that we will present to you next spring as a rough draft, with which we will go through the next 40 years with you and the member states next year, and deliver the forecasts for energy demand, the energy mix, environmental targets and security of supply for four decades.
let us imagine that we are in 1970, before the oil crisis, before the fall of the wall, with only a few member states, and that we have to use the know-how of 1970 to illuminate the year 2010 and the energy present of today.
the subject of energy efficiency was raised.
the financial corridor will be followed by the concrete preparation, instruments and measures in the spring, when we will have to present the energy efficiency strategy which is currently being discussed with you.
you're right, china is investing heavily in wind energy.
last year, china invested more in renewable energy than germany.
nevertheless, the share of renewable energy in china is decreasing because of much more investment in nuclear power and coal.
and china calls nuclear power a renewable energy.
i hope that we will make a good proposal, and that you will support it, based on our good experience with the set plan, with energy research funds and with the infrastructure stimulus programme, so that in the next decade there will be sufficient european funds with added value for corresponding european actions in the areas of infrastructure and research.
energy is one of the most important challenges facing the world today.
the european union has long been committed to energy production using low-carbon technologies.
the second strategic objective to guarantee energy security for all countries also has my full support.
the rapporteur links this objective to the creation of a low-carbon economy.
it's no secret that poland's energy security is based on coal.
poland and many other countries recognise the need to build a low-carbon economy, but are unable to achieve this without european help.
finally, i would like to welcome the rapporteur's recognition of the provision of affordable energy to citizens as one of the strategic objectives of the new energy strategy for europe.
in accepting the three main strategic objectives of the new energy strategy for europe, i would like to express my strong support for the project 'a new energy strategy for europe 2011-2020'.
he's already made the united states energy independent.
scientists and geologists report that the european union is facing a similar prospect of energy independence.
the commission has also proposed that the commission should provide a detailed analysis of the measures taken to ensure that the union's policy is consistent with the objectives of the union's policy on the environment.
the european parliament must finally identify projects that are important for its energy security and how they will be financed.
the final issue that is not addressed is the lack of a clear definition of the term 'european union energy security'.
the fight against global warming has undoubtedly become one of the european union's most important objectives.
a rational policy to reduce carbon dioxide and greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere appears to be an important factor.
with such a large reduction on the union side, the community's position on reducing emissions in the united states or in asian countries is very soft.
it's not the european union countries that are the main emitters, but the fast-growing economies of developing countries like china and india that are not going to cut their emissions.
our economy will weaken, and our emissions will not decrease, but increase.
so we need to rethink this kind of policy in the fight against global warming.
the main objective of this resolution is to reach a compromise to fight climate change, to fight global warming.
we should also focus on achieving these objectives, which we have already set out in the european union's environmental package.
some of my colleagues are talking about a modest package that talks about reducing greenhouse gases by 20%.
my colleagues have repeatedly stressed the need for a unified internal position on climate policy.
but i would like to point out that at the upcoming climate conference, we should also take advantage of our greatest asset, which, as we found out last year, is also our greatest weakness.
let's try to bring this eu know-how into climate policy.
the bric countries cannot go on endlessly invoking the backwardness of civilization to justify their disagreement with radical climate action.
the climate negotiations in cancún start as soon as next week.
on the one hand, the urgency of the climate negotiations is important, but this cannot overshadow the importance of the substantive decisions to be taken at the conference.
the disappointing outcome of the copenhagen climate summit, which failed to deliver any major concrete decisions, should also be taken into account.
the european union should therefore contribute to restoring confidence in international climate change negotiations at cop16.
on climate change, for example, the ethiopian prime minister is mandated by the african union to speak on africa's behalf on the international stage.
for the european union, the african union has become indispensable in many cases where we need african solutions and contributions, whether it be peacekeeping, migration, drug trafficking, climate change or the international criminal court.
africa also offers opportunities which the union should exploit, such as cooperation in the field of energy relations, the arms trade treaty, the opportunities offered by the private sector, to name but a few.
the participants in the ministerial political dialogue in malawi were able to finalize the summit communiqué, the tripoli declaration and the joint action plan for 2011-13. the latter provides a solid basis for our future work by ensuring a good balance between traditional development priorities infrastructure, millennium development goals policy themes peace and security, democratic governance and human rights, migration, mobility, jobs and promising new areas of cooperation such as renewable energy, climate change, information technology, space, to name a few.
earlier this month, the commission presented proposals on how to consolidate our relationship by adding strength to it and focusing on inclusive and sustainable growth in the long term.
the eu and africa must cooperate bilaterally and also work together on the international stage to promote our shared interest: tackling climate change, making progress towards the mdgs and promoting peace and security, democratic governance and human rights.
this will notably require promoting a more business- and investment-friendly environment.
it will be the occasion to look into promising areas such as renewable energies, information and communication technologies, science and others.
no doubt we can include the elimination of poverty, peace and security, democracy and human rights, global governance and climate change.
these are: strengthening good political governance and the efficient, fair and sustainable management of natural and economic resources.
we also hope that this development will be sustainable, that is, that it will lead to the construction of an efficient, green and competitive economy.
another aspect that will probably be strongly emphasised at the summit is africa's vast untapped renewable energy potential, including hydro, solar, wind, geothermal and biomass.
i therefore support the commission's plans to deepen development cooperation based on sustainable growth and combating social exclusion.
first i would like to thank the rapporteurs and the inta committee for these reports, which raise important issues concerning the contribution of the european union’s trade policy towards the achievement of some of the fundamental objectives of public policy: respect for human rights, the pursuit of economic welfare and social justice, the achievement of sustainable growth and respect for the environment and particularly the climate system.
they all address policy coherence and, more particularly, the need for trade policy to be conducted in the framework of the eu’s overall objectives, in particular its economic, social and environmental objectives.
ms saïfi’s report on human rights, social and environmental standards in trade agreements recognises that each of those dimensions offers different possibilities.
the eu has a general interest in improving international governance, including through increased coherence between actions in different fora: the wto, the ilo, the international climate negotiations, and so on.
turning to mr jadot’s report on climate change, i would like to highlight the need to ensure that any options are indeed capable of effectively reducing the risk of carbon leakage and of being applied at reasonable cost.
the reports under consideration today include very specific orientations on possible avenues for increasing the scope, effectiveness, consistency and transparency of our actions as regards social and environmental provisions in ftas, including provisions on csr or climate change issues.
i am glad that commissioner de gucht, mr désir and mrs saïfi understand perfectly well that if we are to have a level playing field, standards - and these are broadly understood standards, covering human rights, social and environmental standards - must be brought into a far-reaching convergence, a unification.
these products are very often made from materials containing substances harmful to both the environment and consumers.
i hope that the ombudsman, supported by us, by parliament and by the other institutions, will continue his work with equal energy and even greater efficiency than before.
the next part of the oral amendment only weakens the wording of the resolution on the use of coal as a primary energy element in the energy mix in the european union.
i think there is no reason to destroy the consensus we have reached in the committee on industry, research and energy by passing an oral amendment.
the european union has a very comprehensive environmental policy, including in the fields of agriculture and industry.
however, in the current conditions of production and competition, it is impossible to abandon agricultural chemicals or to change the production methods of goods so that they do not require a huge amount of energy.
to accuse the union of not being a leader in environmental policy and to take the example of the united states and china is a gross abuse.
these countries are the leaders in co2 emissions.
however, the priority of environmental protection is undeniable, and therefore every effort should be made to make the european economy - industry, agriculture and transport - sustainable.
this is why it is so important to introduce harmonised standards on human rights, social and environmental standards in international trade agreements.
economic cooperation, while respecting the basic principles of democracy and the well-being of its citizens, is the foundation of the european union, which is why it is so important to introduce harmonised standards on human rights, social and environmental standards in international trade agreements.
- i voted in favour of a resolution on human rights, social and environmental standards in international trade agreements.
in accordance with paragraph 15 of the resolution, i consider it essential to include in all free trade agreements negotiated social and environmental standards, including: a list of minimum standards to be respected by all eu trading partners, and a list of additional conventions to be implemented gradually and flexibly, taking into account the development of the economic situation, social and environmental issues of the partner concerned.
bees are of economic and environmental importance.
− energy policy is a particularly important area of european union activity at the moment.
addressing energy crises in neighbouring countries and ensuring energy security in member states should be a priority for the institutions of the european union.
it is of the utmost importance to strike a balance between energy policy and environmental protection.
that is why we must promote the use of renewable energy sources as much as possible.
this will not only reduce emissions of harmful substances, but can also effectively reduce the dependence of the european union market on foreign supplies of energy raw materials.
to ensure energy security, which is so important for all citizens of the member states, it is essential to promote good relations between the european union and third countries, especially those that supply europe.
diversifying oil and gas supplies is also important to make the eu less vulnerable to energy crises in neighbouring countries.
the report by ms kolarska-bobińska draws attention to a number of important problems, such as the lack of a unified energy policy that takes account of the specificities of individual eu countries and the need to import energy from third countries.
the forecasts indicate that oil dependence will further increase in the future, and therefore the energy strategy must have a multi-faceted and international dimension, going beyond the framework of the european union.
our efforts should also focus on meeting the objectives of the lisbon treaty, and thus on creating a single energy market while ensuring security of energy supply.
the achievement of these objectives requires investment in network infrastructure, which would foster the integration of regional energy markets, as well as the modernisation of pan-european energy networks.
the president of the european parliament, jerzy buzek, and former european commission president jacques delors also suggested financial assistance for infrastructure development, as a modernised and expanded energy network is the basis for building a coherent energy policy.
secondly, there will also be a debate tomorrow on the outcome of the cop16 climate conference.
on the one hand we will continue to assess the sustainable implementation of reforms by the countries concerned through the stabilisation and association process – in particular in the area of justice, freedom and security.
this allows people in less-favoured regions with difficult economic conditions and limited access to transport to have the same access to social services, education, transport or energy as those in more socio-economically advantaged areas.
a sustainable, green and knowledge-based economy increases our competitiveness, which will increase if we reduce unemployment in the regions and if we support the creation of a well-qualified and mobile workforce, both in urban and rural areas.
i do not want to focus on the ecological aspect of this event, which this house has also debated.
energy efficiency is one of the major challenges facing the european union in the next ten years.
it's also a key element of our energy strategy.
the most important thing now is that the commission's good report and energy strategy are implemented by the member states.
at eu level, we are still faced with the problem of measuring this energy efficiency.
the way energy is used in copenhagen is different from that in eastern poland.
regional and local authorities will be responsible for implementing energy efficiency policy.
the introduction of binding energy efficiency targets into the european system will be unacceptable to our political group.
poland has improved its energy efficiency by 50% since 1990. nevertheless, poland remains a low-performing country compared to the european average.
since september 2009, europe has been replacing traditional light bulbs, which europeans have become accustomed to, with energy-efficient ones produced using new technology.
the need for this was motivated by the slogans of energy efficiency.
achieving an annual energy efficiency improvement of 2% for industrial plants while reducing greenhouse gas emissions will result in higher production costs and a shift of production outside europe.
i agree with the rapporteur that more emphasis should be placed on systemic innovation such as smart grids, smart metering systems, easier integration of renewable energy sources, and the development of a comprehensive strategy for heat producers and distributors.
just as we have learned to conserve water, we must learn to respect and use energy efficiently.
energy efficiency and energy security will be the priorities of the next hungarian presidency of the european union.
poland, as the eu's presidency, will also deepen its discussion on modern legislative and non-legislative solutions to maintain the competitiveness of the european energy sector while improving energy efficiency.
this is a separate debate, but i would like to call for a new, cross-cutting approach to energy consumption and demand in the european union.
transport seems to be the most appropriate element for implementing modern energy efficiency solutions.
energy efficiency in the european union should be aligned with the direction of demand, which is directly linked to spending and changing habits of citizens.
energy efficiency is most generally defined as the reduction of energy consumption per unit of consumption by rationalising the use of equipment.
however, the main possibilities for increasing gross energy efficiency lie on the side of industrial physicochemical processes, which consist of: 1) better use of the heat flux released from fossil or nuclear fuels by: a) shifting the conversion in the carnot cycle to a higher temperature and pressure range, b) using appropriate waste heat recovery, e.g.
in cogeneration processes; 2) reducing the ohm resistance during current transmission; 3) reducing the thermal resistance of heat exchangers; 4) increasing the thermal resistance through the use of insulating materials in buildings; 5) reducing the friction resistance; 6) reducing the magnetic field losses; 7) reducing the length of the chain over the conversion of one type of energy to another.
so the 3x20 policy goal in 2020 is not simply to reduce energy consumption by 20% gross, for example, through price increases, because that will only cause a decrease in living standards, but through a rationalization that will allow 20% more useful work to be produced from the same amount of primary energy.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy objectives in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy.
increased energy efficiency will directly contribute to improving energy security across the union.
if the changes are implemented properly, they will also reduce emissions.
this is certainly a very good development, supporting our efforts to tackle climate change.
of course, all these objectives will require the necessary resources and investment at the outset, but i believe that the most worthwhile thing is to ensure that europe has an energy-efficient, efficient and environmentally friendly economy.
since the start of the crisis, we have demonstrated our determination to take the necessary measures to preserve financial stability and promote a return to sustainable growth.
in many member states, the current course of fiscal policy weighs heavily on the long-term sustainability of public finances, and requires corrective measures.
- in today's vote i voted in favour of the report by mr bendtsen on the review of the action plan for the rationalisation of energy consumption.
there is no doubt that improving energy efficiency is the most cost-effective and fastest way to reduce carbon emissions.
the fact is that buildings account for around 40% of energy consumption and around 36% of greenhouse gas emissions in the eu.
therefore, i believe that one of the most important actions is to increase the energy efficiency of buildings, by initiating renovation activities of existing equipment and installing more efficient common infrastructure in buildings and heating systems.
− it is impossible not to agree with the rapporteur's thesis that 'improving energy efficiency is the most cost-effective and fastest way to reduce co2 and other gas emissions'.
at the same time, energy efficiency measures contribute to economic growth and job creation.
in this respect, i support the report's call for increased investment in energy efficiency.
− the action plan for the rationalisation of energy consumption is a cost-effective way to increase the competitiveness of the economy and the security of energy supply to the european union.
the plan to rationalise energy consumption is also a great opportunity for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises.
the report by mr bendtsen rightly draws attention to ways of using energy efficiently and effectively without having to reduce its consumption, which is still growing in the member states.
the use of modern energy technologies in construction and transport can lead to significant savings across the union.
however, to make such solutions a reality, we need an information campaign for citizens, but also a reduction in the cost of energy-efficient technologies.
however, we must bear in mind that each member state is at a different stage in the development of its energy policy.
the binding target of 20% of total energy consumption from renewable sources by 2020 may prove too challenging, especially for the 12 new member states.
− ecr meps believe that energy efficiency has a crucial part to play in helping the eu meet its renewable energy and emissions reduction targets.
it also has a crucial role to play in ensuring our energy security and contributing to our economic competitiveness.
we support much of the content of this report, such as the focus on smart grids and metering, financing from the eib and the private sector, and also the potential for r&d to further energy efficiency.
ecr meps do not, however, support binding energy efficiency targets.
we believe that the eu and member states are already incentivised to implement energy efficiency policies through renewable energy and emissions reduction targets, as well as energy saving targets under the energy services directive.