for example, the greenhouse crop campaign was irreparably destroyed this year of 2010 and 90% of the infrastructure has no recovery.
it is in this context, and also in view of the cyclical nature of natural disasters, which are expected to increase in number and intensity due to climate change; the inadequacy of the support for the lost funds, which is always needed; and the fact that these dramatic situations are not covered by the european union solidarity fund, that we consider it imperative and urgent to establish a european insurance system which ... (the president cut the speaker off)
my colleague mr triantaphyllides has already described the situation in southern italy, in calabria, of the exploitation of foreign labour.
this revision of the cotonou agreement introduces issues which are fundamental to sustainable development and the progressive integration of the acp countries into the world economy.
issues such as climate change, energy security, capacity building and education are essential for the development of these countries.
global warming may also present an opportunity.
the renewable energy costs available to these countries are indispensable for their economic and social development and allow them to move towards energy independence in order to cope with the global crisis.
in this regard, the implementation of the cotonou agreement should take into account the international strategy of mauritius and the barbados action plan, which outline a set of measures to help developing island countries achieve their sustainable development.
as regards our specific subject, it is well known that cotonou aims to create a framework for cooperation which constitutes a common acp-eu response to globalisation, contributes to peace and security and fosters a democratic political environment.
the global economic and financial crisis, the high cost of food and energy and the climate issue warrant a further review.
it is hoped that the priority already stated by prime minister josé luis rodríguez zapatero 'to take europe out of the crisis and consolidate the recovery of economic growth' will be achieved, and that the fight against climate change and the defence of energy security will continue.
this temporary suspension of duties, allowing local economic operators in the azores and madeira to import a certain number of raw materials, parts, components and finished products duty-free, and covering sectors such as fisheries, agriculture, industry and services, provides a favourable environment for long-term investment by investors.
- the development of the outermost regions is seriously hampered by factors such as their structural social and economic situation, remoteness, insularity, small size, difficult topography and climate and their economic dependence.
i welcome the proposal for a council regulation because of the incentive it represents for sustainable development and the integration of the outermost regions into the world economy.
i welcome the initiative of the regional authorities of madeira and the azores and their commitment to contribute to the development strategy of these regions, while contributing to a competitive european union capable of sustainable economic development.
we believe, however, that components used for industrial purposes, in particular in the field of energy and the environment, in addition to the agricultural purposes indicated in the regulation, such as parts and components for the energy industry, in particular for so-called clean energy (wind, solar, etc.)
− the development of the outermost regions is determined by their peripheral location, insularity, difficult climate and geography and economic dependence on a small number of goods and services.
the new challenges we face, such as climate change and the economic crisis, must be met with responses that are contained in the new cotonou agreement, which is expected to be finalised in march.
- i express my support for the draft report on the second revision of the cotonou agreement, which introduces fundamental issues for sustainable development and the progressive integration of the acp countries into the world economy.
issues such as climate change, energy security, capacity building and cooperation in education are essential for the economic and social development of acp countries.
global warming, which mainly affects developing countries, could also present an opportunity.
the renewable energy resources available to these countries are indispensable for their economic and social development and enable them to move towards energy independence in order to cope with the global crisis.
- i voted in favour of the report on the second review of the acp-eu partnership agreement, arguing for adjustments to meet the major challenges of the day, such as climate change, the financial crisis and the food crisis.
i welcome the support given by this parliament to the call of the acp group to see climate change addressed as a cross-cutting issue in the second cotonou review.
- i hope that the second review of the cotonou agreement will help to promote sustainable development in the acp countries so that it will allow social cohesion and the fight against poverty.
these effects, combined with climate change, are becoming even more severe.
endogenous resources must be used appropriately and the development of renewable energies must be encouraged.
the second revision of the cotonou agreement is therefore a unique opportunity to make adjustments in the face of current challenges, such as climate change, the sharp rise in food and oil prices, the financial crisis and extreme poverty in several acp countries.
mr president, in the failure of copenhagen, the united states and the european union, respectively the world's first and second largest emitters in terms of per capita emissions, have particular and inescapable responsibilities, which no attempt to shift the blame onto others will erase.
at the same time, the constraints on these countries, such as the enormous external debt, which, compared with the announced financing, is truly astronomical and a very strong limitation on any real possibility of sustainable economic and social development, continue to be hypocritically ignored.
among other things, the summit failed to address the causes of climate change beyond its effects, an irrational system of economic and social organization, within which no solution will be found to this or other problems facing humanity ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, madam minister, the copenhagen conference ended with a result that was far from what was expected.
copenhagen was much more than a climate summit.
at the internal level, europe also has a big task ahead: implementing the energy and climate package, investing in clean technologies, scientific research, energy efficiency, betting on a new industrial policy based on the efficiency of natural resources and innovation, promoting a policy of low-carbon cities, transport and sustainable mobility.
the danube region faces a number of challenges and a strategy for the region will improve connectivity and communication systems, preserve the environment and foster growth, job creation and security.
it is also important to make this strategy compatible with the eu strategy 2020 and the commission's report entitled 'regions 2020' in order to address the major challenges facing europe such as globalisation, demographic trends, climate change and energy (use and supply).
- firmly believing that the full development of the european union can only be achieved by policies which are appropriate to the development of all its regions, while respecting their differences, needs and specificities; whereas territorial cohesion implies the creation of different strategies for different regions, promoting sustainable development in a context of respect for the environment and economic exploitation of their potential; whereas macro-regional strategies are intended to promote, with existing resources, the balanced regional development of the union; the european union has a long history of supporting the danube region, and the european union is committed to supporting the danube region.
the strategy envisaged will enable a coordinated and integrated policy to achieve synergies, promote cohesion, foster economic growth and competitiveness, while protecting the environment.
the strategy presented calls for the improvement of the ecological situation of the danube and the drawing up of a comprehensive plan for the conservation and restoration of natural stocks.
it also shows itself to be a positive strategy in the proposal to improve the multicultural environment of the danube region, cultural dialogue, and the protection of cultural and historical heritage.
only then will we be able to avoid situations which are unsustainable for the economic, environmental and social balance.
− at the critical times europe is going through, in financial, economic and social terms, it is crucial to have a strong commission with an ambitious and bold agenda in key areas such as energy security and climate change, scientific research and innovation.
the new commission structure, with a dedicated climate change portfolio and another combining innovation and research, gives clear signals of an ambitious project and a credible strategy for europe by 2020. this new commission, with president barroso as its leader and a new structure for these areas, has the necessary conditions to be the engine of an economic recovery based on resource efficiency and innovation, with a view to greater social justice.
because the new college of commissioners, because of its curricula, has much greater political capacity, it offers guarantees of facing firmly and decisively the major challenges of the european union: the serious financial crisis we are experiencing and its dramatic social and economic effects, especially unemployment; security and the fight against terrorism; the strengthening of europe's role in the world, which implies a europe with an active common foreign and security policy; the fight against climate change; the competitiveness of our economies in defending our social model.
− at a crucial stage in the economic recovery, the experience and versatility of the commission under josé manuel durão barroso, as well as the commitment, competence and recognition of the great european causes on the part of the commissioners heard in this parliament, will be decisive for sustaining a united and socially equitable europe, capable of taking a leading role in combating climate change and strengthening the competitiveness of our companies by relying on scientific research and innovation.
in the context of the new institution created by the implementation of the lisbon treaty and in view of the challenges facing the development of today's societies, i believe that with this commission the european union is strengthening its capacity to intervene in the current economic, social and political environment, not only at home but also at world level.
monetary union, if it is to be sustainable in the long term, cannot be limited to nominal short-term indicators, cannot leave the real economy, economic growth and employment behind, and cannot ignore the brutal internal regional and social divergences that accompany it and that the commission has rightly identified in its work on emu@10. each member state has its own obligations.
mr. president, the un says that biodiversity is facing the worst crisis since the dinosaurs went extinct 65 million years ago.
the destruction of coral reefs in the tropics, increasing desertification in africa and deforestation threaten biodiversity and have negative impacts on many sectors of the economy, such as food production, tourism, the pharmaceutical industry or energy production.
the un also acknowledges that it has failed to meet the 2002 target of significantly reducing the current rate of biodiversity loss by 2010. cites is the main global agreement on the conservation of wildlife with the aim of preventing the over-exploitation of wild fauna and flora species by international trade.
human consumption of natural resources, destruction of habitats, climate change, overexploitation of wild species and illicit trade are the main causes of the depletion of biodiversity.
it is therefore important to ensure that, in the international year of biodiversity, the key strategic objectives of the european union in the framework of the next conference of the parties to cites are aligned with the objective of protecting biological diversity, which is fundamental to the well-being and survival of humanity.
these decisions have been taken in line with the latest scientific advice on the species and their impact should be assessed further in 2010. it is therefore pointless to anticipate further economic and social restrictions on the sector, especially in the period of severe crisis it is going through, such as those which amount to the inclusion of bluefin tuna in annex i. the fisheries sector requires a dynamic balance between its three pillars: environmental, economic and social.
in the case of environmental requirements, these must be scientifically justified, as was also the case at the iccat meeting with the active participation of the european union.
the inclusion of bluefin tuna in annex i would therefore set a serious precedent for disregarding the requirement of a scientific basis for the restriction and a balance between the environmental, economic and social pillars, thus opening the door to other hasty and factious decision-making and distorting the rules of responsible management.
one of them is the redefinition of the european union budget to guarantee own funds, own financing for the fight against climate change and not as has been done so far.
another way is to allocate additional own resources to aid to developing countries and not to withdraw or cut existing humanitarian aid, because otherwise we are being cynical in trying to solve the problems of climate change while at the same time uncovering and exposing other problems of survival.
this is because, according to the european commission, cases of vat fraud remain significant, and the commission also has information on alleged cases of fraud relating to the exchange of greenhouse gas emission allowances.
the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's energy sector is not left behind.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the living conditions are decisive for the self-esteem and social value of any citizen, and therefore, along with education, health and employment, play a decisive role in the construction, development and consolidation of a sustainable life project, whether at individual or family level.
at this point, it is the duty of the international community to contribute to the definition of a strategy for the reconstruction of the country that is sustainable in the short, medium and long term.
however, conditions must be assessed and ensured for the promotion of sustainable development in the country in order to counteract the situation of extreme poverty affecting a large part of the population of that country.
in addition to the incentives for agricultural profitability, industrialisation and the development of sustainable product marketing channels, i consider it essential to support the implementation of a strong strategy for environmental recovery, since haiti is a striking and dramatic example of the devastating impacts that climate change represents for humanity.
what about a troubled country where the increasingly radicalized government kills, tortures and imprisons opponents who demonstrate against it in the streets and at the same time is tenaciously pursuing a program of uranium enrichment for nuclear energy?
the fundamentalist regime of the ayatollahs may proclaim the benignity of its intentions and the peaceful destiny of nuclear energy, but these statements do not convince the international community, which rightly sees iran as a growing threat.
- i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the eu must create a new development paradigm to deal with climate change.
we cannot lose sight of our commitment to combating climate change, we must as europeans commit ourselves to a co2 reduction target of more than 20% by 2020. it would be important to have the collaboration of other global partners in order to reach an ambitious and legally binding global agreement in line with the objective of warming not exceeding 2°c.
i also believe that the initiatives taken within the eu to promote and encourage the green economy, energy security and dependency reduction must continue to be a priority.
the eu could draw inspiration from the policy in my region, the azores, which already has about 30% of its energy from renewable sources.
- i welcome the adoption of the motion for a resolution on the outcome of cop 15, which i co-authored, and the outcome of the negotiations between the various political groups, as it is representative of the general interest in this matter with a view to a sustainable future.
i express once again my disappointment at the results achieved in copenhagen and urge the eu to regain international leadership in the fight against climate change and to contribute to a legally binding agreement with measurable, reportable and verifiable reduction targets at cop 16 in mexico this year.
for european industries to be more competitive and create more jobs, it is essential to invest in a sustainable future that will involve climate protection, energy security, reducing energy independence and resource efficiency.
to this end, i call on the industrialized countries to invest more in research into new technologies, with a view not only to reducing co2 emissions but also to using natural resources more efficiently and sustainably.
this design calls for a new 'climate diplomacy' in which the efforts of not only the eu but also china and the us are essential, as explained in paragraphs 5 and 15 of the document.
secondly, the imperative for developing countries/emerging economies to adopt the climate change rules applied by eu member states.
in this connection, i have advocated, together with some of my colleagues in my political group, the introduction of a carbon tax on imports from third countries, so that this idea can take its first steps as an element for future reflection, which in itself i consider to be quite relevant.
- i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the outcome of the copenhagen summit on climate change.
it is therefore important to ensure that the european union makes every effort in its external diplomacy to speak with one voice to secure a binding international agreement on climate change that will limit the global temperature increase to 2°c.
- after the impasse of the copenhagen climate change conference, it is important that the european union continues along the lines it has followed so far, towards a serious commitment to sustainable development, seeking to reduce its carbon emissions without jeopardising european industries.
the new climate policies, especially in the face of a widespread crisis, cannot lose sight of economic efficiency and cannot in any way jeopardise the economic sustainability of european nations.
that is why a new approach to energy policy, focusing on clean energy, a more efficient use of the natural resources at our disposal and a strong investment in research and more environmentally friendly technologies is urgently needed if european competitiveness is to be maintained and job creation enabled in a sustainable development framework.
− the eu has always been a leader in international climate change negotiations.
yet despite the ambition, the last climate conference in copenhagen was a failure for all the people who were determined to reach a binding agreement.
the result is far from the eu's position, and also far from the position needed for climate protection.
in the face of the disappointing outcome of the copenhagen conference, parliament's resolution is intended to send a clear signal to the citizens of europe and the world that it remains committed to combating climate change.
instead of seriously analysing the eu's own responsibilities for this failure, the majority of this parliament persists in making scapegoats such as china (a country whose per capita atmospheric emissions of carbon dioxide equivalent are less than half the eu average), now joined by the 'alba countries', a position justified only by the most basic political blindness and factionalism, which distorts and subverts what actually happened in copenhagen.
no just and sustainable solution to the problem of climate change, as well as other environmental problems, will be achieved within the framework of the irrational system that generated them.
the countries with the greatest responsibility in this area have not reached a consensus on reductions in greenhouse gas emissions.
the eu must be able to show its leadership in the fight against climate change.
recognising that biodiversity loss is a serious global problem, i believe that other animals should also be the subject of conservation proposals.
i see this conference as crucial to the survival and sustainability of many species.
- i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on 'key objectives for the conference of the parties to cites' because the protection of biodiversity must be strengthened at the next conference of the parties to cites.
biodiversity is fundamental to the well-being and survival of humanity.
recognising the importance of the conservation of endangered species for the safeguarding of biodiversity and the ecological balance of the planet, i would point out that sustainable development presupposes the rational use of natural resources, without this impeding the maintenance of activities necessary for development.
what strategy does it intend to pursue to incorporate the social and environmental dimension of trade into international wto rules?
the defence of the right of each country to produce in a sustainable way is a future requirement in the name of a new economic, social, energy and environmental rationality, which the neoliberal model not only does not guarantee but makes impossible.
it is therefore necessary to ensure the highest possible level of safety in the work environment of hospitals and wherever healthcare is provided.
in the south-west region of europe, for example, macaronesia (the azores, madeira, the canary islands and cape verde) faces a number of common challenges, and a strategy for this region would improve communication systems, preserve the environment, foster growth, scientific exchange, job creation, security and facilitate the fight against illegal immigration.
climate change is causing extreme events to happen again and again, and we need to have responses to them.
it is therefore necessary to create an appropriate financial framework for prevention, which reinforces and articulates instruments such as cohesion policy, rural development policy and regional policy, among others, to support member states in implementing measures to protect people, the environment and the economy.
they must be put into effect immediately because, unfortunately, due to climate change, these processes will be repeated, especially in the poorest regions of europe, which are those that live in torrential regimes in terms of water and extreme drought during the summer.
we also stress the need for long-term planning of housing policy to ensure fiscal sustainability.
first, at the level of principles, in a requirement for a balance between its environmental, social and economic aspects: environmental, to ensure the conservation of stocks; social, to ensure the appreciation and dignity of the profession; and economic to ensure the income of the activity.
without these three aspects we will not have fisheries in the european union, at least not sustainable and capable of development, which is what we all want.
the report points out some fundamental aspects: investing in decentralization; strengthening the power of intervention of fishermen and the whole fishing industry in power, in decision-making; greater investment in management, which will also allow a policy of compliance and responsibility; the need to distinguish between a small-scale and industrial fleet, with specific regimes for each of them; the need to reflect on management models that are better adapted to different fishing areas and different types of fisheries; it is important to strengthen the market by targeting fishing for value-added products and by increasing the price of the first sale; to link subsidies to the requirements of good practice; to make the modernisation of the fleet conditional on safety and hygiene; to decisively develop aquaculture, an ecologically sustainable aquaculture in the european union; to develop other sectors related to catching such as processing.
it should be said that this solution does not guarantee the sustainability of fish stocks, since the reduction and concentration of rights in a handful of operators does not necessarily mean a reduction in fishing effort, but only the concentration of exploitation of resources.
the defence of resource sustainability requires other measures such as the guarantee of a fair return in the sector.
as has been said by several speakers, environmentally sustainable, economically viable and socially decent fishing is the objective which we have so far unsuccessfully sought to achieve in the common fisheries policy.
in addition, in order to maintain the good environmental status of marine areas and to respect the precautionary principle, the limit of 100 nautical miles islands should be reassessed, and the recovery of 200 miles is urgent, so that ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the rapporteur.
that is what we are committed to: to create the conditions for the fisheries sector to be truly sustainable and developed in the long term.
at the same time, aware that environmental challenges pose serious problems for fisheries resources, i consider it essential that the new cfp should allow for ecologically sustainable and economically viable fisheries.
the green paper on the reform of the common fisheries policy embodies the opportunity to review this european policy and does so in its various dimensions (economic, social and environmental), redefining new guidelines with a view to solving the remaining problems in this sector.
the green paper report insists on reforms which i believe are necessary for a better implementation of this policy at regional level, in particular a decentralisation of fisheries management which covers the specificities of the regions and which links the sustainability of the sector with the preservation of species.
at a time when we are faced with a huge situation of unemployment and social crisis in all our countries, it is not sustainable to increase the resources of members without at the same time having the courage to cut the expenditure and the cost-sharing aid to which we as members are entitled, and which are not all, far from it, entirely justified.
- the lisbon treaty has given the european union more competence in the field of energy policy.
it is essential that the member states work together to ensure that their citizens have a more efficient, safer and cheaper energy policy.
the eu has made energy one of its top priorities.
the energy and climate package aims to increase the competitiveness of eu industry in a world with increasingly restrictive carbon emissions.
this regulation on investment projects relating to energy infrastructure in the european union will help to make the market more transparent and more predictable, supporting our companies and creating a positive environment for competitiveness.
- i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation on the notification to the commission of investment projects in energy infrastructure in the european community and repealing council regulation (ec) no 736/96, as it will enable the commission to monitor the situation of this infrastructure and anticipate potential problems, particularly of an environmental nature.
the importance of environmental impact assessment of energy infrastructure projects should therefore be emphasised, so that their construction and closure can be carried out in a sustainable manner.
− given the importance of an integrated energy policy, not only to combat climate change and reduce co2 emissions, but also to ensure efficiency and reduce europe's energy dependence, the communication and transmission of data on energy infrastructure investments and projects is essential.
it is important for european energy policy that the commission has a current view of the evolution of energy investments in the member states, so that it can develop integrated policies that promote greater energy efficiency and investment in cleaner technologies, ensuring progressive energy independence from external suppliers and fossil fuels.
- this proposal for a regulation contributes to the implementation of a european energy policy aimed at efficiency, reliability and security.
energy efficiency is a priority policy of the european union in view of the need to conserve and make the most of resources and the commitments made in the context of combating climate change.
i would remind you that before moving on to new projects, the eu's target of 20% energy efficiency should be taken into account.
therefore, investment projects in energy infrastructure should be compatible with the objective of achieving, by 2020, the minimum level of 20% for energy from sustainable renewable sources.
the energy policy advocated must ensure low carbon production and be based on the principles of solidarity and sustainability.
the reliability of the system is important as it must be operated without interruption and the deterioration of the energy supply situation inside and outside the union must be taken into account.
the commission also stresses the crucial investment in infrastructure to avoid security problems in energy supply.
the rapporteur believes that this is indeed an important part of eu energy policy, based on the principle that without adequate information on our energy infrastructures, it is not possible to effectively promote a 'european energy policy at eu level'.
but beyond our fundamental disagreement on european energy policy, there is also the legal basis on which this report is based, namely the framework of the internal market.
− the eu's energy policy is very relevant to the near future of the use of renewable energy.
with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, decisions on matters related to energy policy are taken in co-decision, so it is necessary to readjust the regulations on the basis of the new eu legal reality.
therefore, in order to enable all member states to communicate in an appropriate and useful way the planned developments in energy infrastructure, a new regulation is needed to make this easier and more agile.
the political and economic stabilisation of ukraine and the strengthening of cooperation between ukraine and the eu in the energy field are essential conditions for the recognition of ukraine's european aspirations.
this will also help to pacify regional conflicts within the country, which are of great geostrategic importance for the eu, given relations with russia and central asia, especially at the energy level.
this requires the implementation of the necessary constitutional reforms, consolidation of the rule of law, establishment of a social market economy and renewed efforts to combat corruption and improve the business and investment climate.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the environmentally sensitive products.
the economic and financial crisis, the impact of climate change and the ageing of society are variables that the european commission and the member states should take into account in their actions and policies aimed at promoting gender equality.
this increase in funding should not, however, jeopardise the budgetary sustainability and the strictness of accounts which are necessary in any institution.
i would stress the need for long-term planning of housing policy to ensure fiscal sustainability.
this new budgetary allocation must, however, respect the utilization ratios of the amounts of heading 5 (administrative appropriations) of the mff, which have been set at 20% of the value of that heading, in order to maintain budgetary sustainability.
i would stress the importance of including in the report the achievement of a zero-based budget which ensures greater budgetary sustainability and the need for it to be in line with the annual legislative programme.
it is essential to ensure the sustainable development of this sector, both economically and socially, but it is also necessary to ensure the maintenance of good environmental status in all marine waters of the european union.
the implementation of the cfp is directly linked to issues such as environmental protection, climate change, security, public health, consumer protection and regional development, internal and international trade, relations with third countries and development cooperation, and it is therefore essential to ensure fair and careful harmonisation between all these areas.
i stress the need to use a coherent framework within the european research area to support the sustainable use of oceans and seas.
the numerous problems and challenges of the cfp were identified in 2002 and have now been compounded by the economic and energy crises and the adverse effects of climate change.
i welcome the concern to decentralise and de-bureaucratise the cfp and to regionalise fisheries management within the limits imposed by the lisbon treaty, as well as the need to ensure differentiated treatment for small-scale coastal fishing and industrial fishing, while respecting environmental, economic and social requirements.
i would like to stress the importance of introducing an environmental and social approach in the search for new fisheries management systems which are complementary to the current system, based on the principle of relative stability.
i consider it urgent and essential that the european union should make an effective effort to ensure better conditions for economic sustainability for fishermen, within a framework which safeguards the specificities of each region and which recognises the differentiated attention to be given to small-scale fishing.
the reform cannot be dissociated from the sustainable exploitation of marine resources, in a process of scientific and technical evaluation, which will contribute to the pacification of the sector and, at the same time, will have an impact on the quality and food safety of consumers.
this is an option which does not safeguard the sustainability of resources and which will inevitably lead to a concentration of activity in the entities with the greatest economic and financial power at eu level, seriously threatening small-scale coastal and artisanal fishing which, in the case of portugal, represents more than 90% of the fleet.
it is therefore necessary to analyse the new factors influencing it and to find new solutions to make it more viable at all levels, including economic, social and environmental.
however, this sector must be analysed in a global rather than a segmented way so that we can integrate all the problems and vicissitudes of the sector, so that the problems can be solved in a way that satisfies everyone and thus overcome the major problems affecting it: over-fishing, overcapacity, over-investment and waste.
- the report on the green paper on the reform of the common fisheries policy, which we adopted today, sets out a review of the policy in its economic, social and environmental dimensions, with the aim of redefining the guidelines for solving the remaining problems in the sector.
improving the efficiency of fisheries management and a strategy for financial support for fishermen, as well as ensuring the sustainability of the sector through the preservation of species, are priorities which i reiterate as essential in this reform and which must be implemented at regional level.
the eu and the member states must therefore create a favourable environment for these companies.
carlos coelho worked with the contribution of the shadow rapporteurs in an excellent environment of information and cooperation.
it's a waste for us who were counting on your input.
it's a waste for our competitiveness when we compare, for example, the mobility of this kind of foreign citizens in, for example, the united states, or china, or india, or brazil, and then we see the barriers to their mobility in the european union.
it is a waste for the mobility of our workforce, of our scientific community -- when we realize that this is very important, this increased mobility, in times of crisis like the one we are going through, and it is a waste also for the knowledge society.
- we voted in favour of this resolution in order to ensure the environmental sustainability of the atlantic regions, in particular the union's islands, which are an essential element in their maritime dimension and which are faced with specific problems and needs, environmental problems being an example.
in the context of this discussion, it is necessary to ensure environmental monitoring of the atlantic seas, since the lives of the populations of these islands depend on the good environmental status of their marine waters, and it is important to clearly define minimum environmental quality objectives and, at the same time, monitoring programmes to ensure this same good environmental status.
there is also a need to address the cases referred to by the rapporteur, such as shipping accidents or plastic bags, which can have devastating consequences for the economic, social and environmental sustainability of the atlantic regions, which requires the implementation of specific measures appropriate to the environmental and socioeconomic reality of the marine ecosystems that the atlantic hosts.
the conclusion is therefore that the conclusion of these agreements is important for the sustainable development of the populations dependent on the atlantic.
- i welcome the conclusion of this additional protocol, which resolves a political conflict which prevented spain and morocco from ratifying the cooperation agreement for the protection of the coasts and waters of the north-east atlantic against pollution (lisbon agreement).
it is necessary to ensure that good environmental status is maintained in all marine waters of the european union in order to ensure sustainable development.
this protocol is directly linked to issues such as environmental protection, climate change, security, public health, regional development, relations with third countries and development cooperation.
this protocol, which will make it possible to combat a variety of forms of pollution in the atlantic, is essential to ensure the fight against pollution or the risk of pollution of the seas or coasts, through a mechanism designed to ensure cooperation between the contracting parties in the event of a pollution accident and obliges them to establish and implement their own emergency structures and plans.
- twenty years after its signature, the cooperation agreement for the protection of the coasts and waters of the north-east atlantic against pollution, concluded between portugal, spain, france, morocco and the eu, is now ready to enter into force, following its ratification by all the contracting parties.
this agreement is of the utmost importance to portugal, given the size of its coast and the importance of the sea to the national economy, and not forgetting the disasters erika and prestige, so i congratulate the council and the states on the conclusion of this additional protocol and i hope that the agreement will enter into force quickly and effectively, which will allow greater safety for our coasts against ecological accidents such as some that have unfortunately marked the recent past of our coasts.
− i welcome the adoption of this report, which will allow the entry into force of a network of regional agreements on marine pollution concluded between the eu and some member states and neighbouring third countries.
in addition to the safety dimension, this protocol aims at environmental protection.
we all know the ecological disasters that have threatened the coasts of our countries in recent years.
the european community has been involved in various regional agreements on marine pollution which facilitate mutual assistance and cooperation between member states.
i believe that, on behalf of the environmental standards promoted by the eu, and once agreement has been reached on the additional protocol, the lisbon agreement can finally be put into practice.
it is also important to note that 80% of the waste and pollution in the sea originates on land, which is why a concerted strategy is needed to combat this scourge on land.
ocean pollution and coastal degradation in europe is not only an environmental issue but also an economic one, since in some countries, such as portugal, the practice of tourism for maritime activities such as whale watching, diving and others is already an important source of income for some regions, notably the azores, madeira and the algarve.
'like overfishing, water pollution has also contributed significantly to the current depletion of some stocks of species which are important fisheries resources, and therefore calls for full implementation of the marine environment directive, the environmental pillar of the integrated maritime policy strategy.
− eu consumers have a key role to play in boosting growth, employment and competitiveness, and their interests are a key priority in shaping key policies such as health, business and industry, the environment, energy and transport, among others.
in the energy sector, the internal market cannot function properly and competitively because of the existence of so-called 'energy islands', such as the baltic region, which are isolated from the rest of europe in terms of energy and dependent on a single external supplier.
the existence of a european-wide electricity and gas pipeline network should be a priority, as europe is highly dependent on energy imports.
research in the energy sector and investment in infrastructure, particularly in the interconnection of gas and electricity networks, are essential to promote competition.
security of supply and effective competition in the energy market depend on the interconnection and the proper functioning of energy infrastructures.
i stress that support mechanisms such as state aid should not be used to protect national industries to the detriment of the internal market and european consumers and that these mechanisms should be used with a view to the recovery of a sustainable knowledge economy.
- greater competition means more choice for european citizens and a more competitive environment for businesses.
the commission's actions to ensure an effective competitive environment within the internal market are therefore essential to safeguarding those objectives, even if the fact that the commission has been given absolute powers may be called into question.
excessive debt and budget deficits not only jeopardise the stability of the euro, but also impose severe constraints on public spending in priority sectors such as education, health, innovation and the environment.
at the internal level, europe is tasked with implementing the energy and climate package and investing in clean technologies, scientific research and energy efficiency.
it is also important to introduce the topic of climate change in all summits and high-level meetings.
on the other hand, the definition of each country's responsibility for the overall effort to reduce emissions will have to take into account its population base for the same reasons of fairness.
china's per capita emissions are now four times lower than the us and about half the eu average.
india has about one tenth of the eu average emissions and twenty times less than the us.
public investment in the railway sector is undoubtedly strategic - for energy and environmental reasons - but not to be handed over to the profit-making logic of large private interests, which aim to dominate this key public sector in each country by liberalising it at the level of the european union's internal market.
− the aim of this proposal is to simplify the business environment and in particular the financial reporting requirements for micro-entities in order to enhance their competitiveness and realise their growth potential.
finally, i cannot fail to emphasize the inclusion of agriculture in this strategy, because it was not included in the initial proposal, and this is undoubtedly a sector essential for europe to achieve its objectives, both from the economic, food and environmental point of view, and for a better quality of life in rural areas, generating employment.
− on 3 march, the european commission presented the 2020 strategy: 'a strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth'.
it is a proposal based on five quantifiable objectives for the european union (eu) by 2020, which will frame the process and which should be translated into national objectives: employment, research and innovation, climate change and energy, education and the fight against poverty.
harnessing this potential is essential if europe is to recover from the economic crisis in a sustainable way.
- i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the follow-up to the informal european council of 11 february 2010. to achieve a sustainable social market economy and a smarter and greener economy, europe needs to set priorities, agreed together.
the eu can play a leading role in the world by demonstrating that economic dynamism can be combined with social and environmental concerns.
the eu could create new jobs in areas such as renewable energy, sustainable transport and energy efficiency.
these challenges are mainly in five areas considered strategic by the commission: (i) employment; (ii) innovation and research; (iii) climate change and energy; (iv) education and (v) the fight against poverty.
in this way we can combat poverty and ensure economic, social and territorial cohesion through sustainable economic growth.
efficient use of resources is a requirement of this principle and follows from the need for sustainability.
sustainable agriculture, with quality products, should be another objective.
to do this, we need to strengthen the sustainable development of our primary sector and take the lead in scientific research, knowledge and innovation.
the path we are on is clear and the social and environmental rhetoric that is being used is not enough to disguise it: the emphasis on the single market, the continuation of liberalization, the commodification of increasing aspects of social life, precarious employment, structural unemployment.
this implied a new macroeconomic framework favouring sustainable development, the strengthening of domestic demand, respectful of the environment, based on wage growth, full employment with rights and economic and social cohesion.
in this context of global economic crisis, strategy 2020 must be the model that all member states must follow to start a new phase, with new paradigms that lead to sustainable development based on good practices.
its approach should be objective, with references to a sustainable social market economy, sustainable knowledge-based knowledge and the role of smes in promoting employment.
the policy and regulatory environment in this area is different today, with new regulatory initiatives such as the fight against tax havens, the removal of legal loopholes in management accounts, requirements for exchange transactions and the use of transaction repositories for the registration of derivative instruments.
the growing number of members of the "nuclear club", the threat of terrorism, and the relative ease with which weapons of mass destruction are now being built all contribute to the climate of unrest in which we live today.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, madam president, commissioner, council, we are talking here about reinventing the energy system for europe through investment in low-carbon technologies.
they talk about energy efficiency, carbon capture, nuclear, biofuels, solar energy, and they even talk about energy efficiency as the cheapest way to reduce emissions.
i am surprised that there are other, much cheaper ways of reducing carbon emissions that are not even mentioned in this communication, such as, for example, reducing energy consumption, microgeneration, distribution and the different forms of distribution and different projects, which do not have to go through large structures, and access to energy.
and so, with this bet on public-private partnerships that is systematically made when we talk about low-carbon technologies, we can safely be certain of one thing: the problem is, because you don't know where the money is coming from, and you know that it's a public-private partnership, you know in advance who's going to pay.
without this clarification, it seems to me that we are once again systematically passing on to future generations the bill for the change in the european energy model.
research and technology play a key role in development in the low-carbon society.
it is essential to bet on a radical change in society, based on the sustainability of cities, decentralized energy production and the competitiveness of industry.
it is a policy that is essential for a prosperous, sustainable society, one that is prepared for the challenges of climate change, security of supply and globalisation, and a world leader in clean technologies.
the next eu financial perspective and the 8th framework programme for research and technological development will have to prioritise energy security, the fight against climate change and the environment.
madam president, commissioner, the debate on the transition to a low-carbon economy should not make us forget this fact.
it is unlikely that it will be achieved without a shock, without facing within a few years the effects of the shortage and progressive depletion of the primary source of energy on which we depend: fossil fuels.
it is in this context that the adoption of the so-called exhaustion protocol, presented in uppsala in 2002 and in lisbon in 2005 by a group of scientists and experts from several countries that are part of the association for the study of peak oil, would be of the utmost importance to adopt a plan aimed at a good and fair management of these resources, the mitigation of their shortage and the controlled transition to other primary energy sources.
while i recognise that this commission communication aims to accelerate the development of new technologies with higher low-carbon potential through greater energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy, i regret, however, that european regions do not yet have a well-defined role within this strategy.
it is necessary to ensure that regional authorities are adequately funded, for example by providing funding for the testing phase of pilot projects or for investments in the research and testing phases of renewable energy projects.
i think it is important that geothermal energy, for example, be included, a renewable energy with great potential for expansion in volcanic regions, and this is particularly relevant for remote and island regions of the union, and for which no targets are set to be achieved.
in this context, public and private investment has to increase through the development of energy technologies in order to achieve the desired goals of a low-carbon economy and also to help overcome the market failures referred to in the energy and climate package.
the commission is also proposing to set up a financial framework for prevention, which will support the implementation by the member states of measures to protect people, the environment and the economy.
- it is essential to focus on a radical change in society based on the sustainability of cities, decentralised energy production and the competitiveness of industry.
it is a policy that is essential for a prosperous and sustainable society, prepared for the challenges of climate change, energy security and globalisation, and a world leader in clean technologies.
europe must also create the conditions for more private investment in scientific research, technological development and demonstration in the field of energy.
the eu's forthcoming financial perspective and the 8th framework programme for research and technological development should give priority to energy security, the fight against climate change and the environment.
- i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on 'investing in the development of low-carbon technologies' (set plan), as in order to respond effectively to the economic crisis, the eu must give priority to investment in these new technologies, which have a huge potential in terms of job creation.
− the set plan, presented by the commission, proposes investment in r & d to develop clean, efficient and sustainable energy technologies with low carbon emissions, which will ensure the necessary reduction of emissions, without jeopardising european industries, thus making a commitment that we believe is serious about sustainable development.
the new energy policies, especially in the face of a general crisis, must not lose sight of economic efficiency and must not in any way jeopardize the economic sustainability of european nations, without this implying a lesser commitment to the environment.
that is why a new approach to energy policy, focusing on clean energy, a more efficient use of the natural resources at our disposal and a strong investment in research and more environmentally friendly technologies is urgently needed if europe is to remain competitive and enable job creation in the context of creating an innovative and sustainable economy.
- i welcome the objectives of the strategic energy technology plan (set) which focus on the development of a low-carbon society.
the set plan seeks to accelerate the development and deployment of low-carbon technologies.
this plan includes measures relating to planning, implementation, resources and international cooperation in the field of innovative energy technologies.
several studies estimate that promoting the european target of 20% renewable energy penetration will result in millions of new jobs by 2020. in addition, about two thirds of jobs will come from small and medium-sized enterprises.
the sooner we achieve a low-carbon society, the sooner we will get out of the crisis.
− the development and application of low-carbon technologies is of the utmost importance, not only for environmental reasons, including the need to reduce atmospheric emissions of carbon dioxide, but also for energy reasons, given the inevitable progressive shortage and eventually depletion of fossil fuel reserves, on which humanity is highly dependent.
unfortunately, both the set plan and the resolution now adopted do not only fail to address the problem fully - both in terms of the technologies and energy sources to be considered and the need to reduce consumption - but above all continue to regard this investment as a good business opportunity (in which a few will gain a lot at the expense of many) rather than an environmental and energy imperative for safeguarding the common good of mankind.
it is significant and illustrative that in voting on the amendments to the resolution, instead of promoting 'ambitious targets for reducing' atmospheric carbon dioxide emissions, the choice was made to 'promote the trading of carbon emissions worldwide'.
− the use of low-carbon technologies which naturally produce less carbon dioxide is positive and desirable.
however, we cannot accept that, at the expense of technological development and the strengthening of the so-called set plan, another pretext is sought to weaken national energy policies.
the commission's words say that 'the set plan is the technological pillar of the community's energy and climate policy', leaving no doubt about the real guidelines of the european commission to take away sovereignty from the member states in a matter as important as national energy strategies.
the resolution sets out in more detail aspects with which we cannot agree, namely the promotion of 'carbon trading worldwide', which has already proven to be of no benefit in reducing carbon emissions, and the creation of more public-private partnerships, placing the emphasis on 'substantially increasing public investment', thus putting public money at the service of private interest and profit.
− investing in low-carbon technologies should be a priority, as it represents one of the most effective ways of combating climate change and moving the eu towards a green economy.
smart low-carbon solutions should therefore merit special attention, in particular as regards their financing at community level, in order to achieve the environmental objectives set by the eu by 2020.
in writing.
europe has led by example in terms of its social model and has played a leading role in environmental issues, without any kind of comparison in world terms.
however, we fear that the answers will be directed mainly towards the so-called sustainability of public finances, forgetting measures for social sustainability.
the promotion of young entrepreneurship, the encouragement and strengthening of innovation and the digital agenda are other proposals that contribute to sustainable economic development in europe and the consequent creation of jobs.
as regards parliament's budget, the european people's party is in favour of a sustainable and rigorous budget, where every expenditure is justified.
for this concept of sustainability, rigour and efficiency, it is urgent, for example, to define a long-term real estate policy.
the objectives of a multiannual financial framework which reduced the structural funds to 0.37% of the eu's gross national income, which implied cuts in programmes of a social and environmental nature and in the fields of research, education and culture, need to be revised.
the future budgets should be instruments for economic and social cohesion, understood as more than a dead letter in the treaties, for full employment with rights, investment and public services, environmental protection, cooperation and peace.
the crises mentioned in the report (food, energy, climate, financial, economic and social) are but differentiated expressions of the same structural crisis that has been dragging on for decades.
despite the disparities, developing countries generally share some common characteristics: dependence on exports of a small number of raw materials, lack of economic diversification, a high concentration in agriculture, the extractive or energy sector, or tourism, and a strong dominance of foreign capital.
the eu needs to improve in several areas, including monetary policy, improved coordination and cooperation on economic policy, control of member states' public finances, tackling energy dependence and creating more new jobs in modern and environmentally sustainable industries.
we must therefore take on our role as leading actors, redefining the union's role in the united nations, looking at global governance and un reform, peace and security, development and climate change.
i would also like to highlight the areas of research, innovation and the digital agenda, as well as other priorities in this budget: the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of national experts in the field of environmental protection.
once again, the aim is a budget that serves the deepening of the single market, job insecurity, vulgar flexicurity, liberalization, the commodification of the environment and the growing spheres of social life.
it is also essential that very significant investment is made in the field of climate change, the environment and social policies.
these considerations should not, however, call into question the budgetary sustainability and the strictness of accounts which are necessary in any institution.
the epp group, to which i belong, continues to advocate a sustainable and rigorous budget, in which every expenditure is justified and in which it is possible to ensure a sustainability of rigor and efficiency.
in this context, i welcome the introduction of mandatory labelling of the origin of products, which allows consumers to be informed about quality standards, but also about environmental protection and animal welfare.
- the common agricultural policy will necessarily have to rely on the high quality of its agricultural products, an undeniable added value for european competitiveness in a global market environment.
quality policy cannot be separated from the rest of the common agricultural policy, nor can it ignore new challenges such as the fight against climate change, the conservation of biodiversity, energy supply and the development of bioenergy, animal welfare and water management in agriculture.
however, it ignores issues that are essential to safeguarding the quality of agricultural production and the sustainability of agricultural activity in the eu countries, such as: the consequences of the deregulation of world trade and the unbridled liberalisation of markets, whether in the framework of bilateral agreements or in the framework of the wto; the various dangers inherent in the introduction of genetically modified organisms into the environment, in the ways in which this has been conducted; the need for a thorough reform of the cap, which defends local production, the right to produce and the right to food sovereignty.
- i vote in favour of this report, which introduces fundamental questions for sustainable development and the progressive integration of the acp countries into the world economy.
developing countries are the most affected by global warming, and it is therefore essential to step up all measures to combat climate change, such as the transfer of appropriate technologies.
it is also important to agree on the eu's emissions trading scheme, whereby at least 25% of the revenues generated from the auctioning of carbon dioxide emission allowances will be devoted to aid to developing countries.
issues such as sustainable development and green growth should be eu strategic priorities.
i call for additional funds to be allocated to developing countries and for these to be sustainable in the medium and long term, from the private sector, the carbon market and the public sector in industrialized countries and the most economically advanced developing countries.
- the economic and financial crisis that is afflicting us has had disastrous effects on developing countries, which have already been victims of successive crises (food, energy, climate and financial).
territorial cohesion should be an integral part of this strategy alongside other key themes such as the continued focus on knowledge and innovation, sustainable economic progress and social inclusion.
only through a cohesion policy with visibility in its results, respect for the principle of subsidiarity and governance at various levels - national, regional and local - will it be possible for europe's regions to achieve sustainable and integrated growth.
smes are the engine of the european economy and the agents of sustainable growth and generators of jobs in quantity and quality.
the european agricultural policy must therefore be defined in a way that responds to the key question: the need to ensure food security in a sustainable way at reasonable market prices.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report by the european environment agency is appropriate.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
the court of auditors in its report qualifies the annual accounts of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2008 as reliable and the underlying transactions as legal and regular.
this can be attributed to the fact that the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy is in a start-up phase and has not fully planned its internal controls and financial information system during the financial year 2008.
in writing.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is in this spirit that i voted in favour of the report by the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
- increasing concern for ecological and environmental protection issues leads us to take extra care with safety rules for the transport of pressure equipment.
the shipping sector faces major environmental challenges.
it is essential to substantially improve the environmental performance of seagoing vessels and the emissions of sox, nox, fine particulate matter and co2.
the shipping sector is essential to the european economy, not only as a transport of passengers, raw materials, goods and energy products, but also as the core of a wide range of maritime activities, such as shipping, logistics, research, tourism, fisheries and aquaculture, to name just a few.
safer and cleaner shipping should be pursued, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and responding effectively to acts of piracy.
in addition, excessive protection of animals must not lead to the neglect of other equally important values which must be preserved, such as economic competitiveness, the sustainability of agriculture and livestock farming and also some national traditions.
− european agriculture contributes to the achievement of the union's climate change mitigation targets by 2020. ghg emissions have been declining as a result of more efficient eu agriculture, constant innovation and the use of new techniques such as soil storage of co2 and the development of sustainable renewable energy production.
innovation therefore has an important role to play in reducing the impact of agriculture on climate change and in moderating its environmental consequences.
i call for european money from the agricultural sector to be used to develop technologies for adapting the sector to combat climate change.
the role of agriculture in the process of combating climate change must take into account the competitive position of the eu agri-food sector on the world market, and solutions must therefore be found to enable conventional agriculture to contribute to sustainable environmental management while protecting it from food speculation in the 'commodities' market and from international trade protectionism.
- i voted in favour of the report on eu agriculture and climate change because it presents concrete measures that can contribute to more sustainable agriculture.
agriculture is one of the activities most affected by climate change, but it is also one of the most important contributors to co2 emissions.
in the context of the future cap reform, the development of practices that allow european agriculture to better adapt to the consequences of climate change and, on the other hand, that can contribute to its mitigation should be encouraged.
- agriculture accounts for 9.3% of the european union's total co2 emissions, up from 11% in 1990. there has been a steady and progressive reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, with agriculture making a positive contribution to meeting the eu's emission reduction targets.
i would also like to point out that although the environmental concerns in the agricultural sector are legitimate and necessary, they must be weighed against the impact of the proposals in terms of sustainability and agricultural productivity.
the relationship between agriculture and environmental protection should therefore be carefully considered in the context of the reform of the cap, bearing in mind that, in addition to its negative impact on the environment (through, inter alia, co2 emissions), agriculture makes a decisive contribution to the conservation and management of natural resources, green growth and the management of the landscape and biodiversity.
these are added values created by agriculture, which should be taken into account when it is proposed to study the relationship between agriculture and the environment.
− agriculture is directly involved in the issue of climate change as it contributes in part to the production of greenhouse gases while being affected by these changes.
but agriculture can also contribute to combating climate change and has important potential for sustainable development.
the cap should therefore encourage agricultural practices that limit emissions and/or improve carbon sequestration, as agriculture and forestry are the main economic sectors that are able to capture co2 from human activities by preserving and storing carbon in the soil.
we need to move towards more sustainable agriculture, which requires greater efficiency, and we will have to increase world food production by 70 percent by 2050, according to fao, to cope with the increase in the world population.
we will have to produce more but in a sustainable way, which requires greater efficiency, the adoption of the best techniques and practices and increased investment in scientific research in this area.
− consideration of the implications of climate change on agriculture is a relevant concern.
the compatibility of agricultural activity with the preservation of a set of natural and cultural values such as soils, landscapes and biodiversity is also relevant, fully justified and necessary.
it would be important if this report devoted a few lines, if any, to the need to break with the productivist model which has shaped successive reforms of the cap and its disastrous social and environmental consequences.
- adaptation to climate change is becoming a reality that everyone will have to see as a priority in eu policy.
the phenomenon of climate change is damaging agriculture, which according to recent reports points to a very unpromising scenario for this sector.
it seems that the countries of southern europe will be the most affected by climate change.
optimising water resources, selecting varieties selected for their resistance to climate change and disease, protecting soils from erosion, preserving pastures, increasing reforestation, restoring degraded areas, improving forest management to limit fire risks and new disease surveillance and control measures are all very important measures to adapt european agriculture to the effects of warming.
agriculture will increasingly depend on the state of the climate, and we therefore approve all measures to mitigate this serious problem.
the commission proposes in this communication that, in accordance with article 50 (3) of regulation (ec) no 1698/2005, 'other less-favoured areas' be defined in accordance with objective criteria, proposing eight soil and climate criteria which, starting from a certain threshold value, indicate the existence of severe constraints for european agriculture: climatic criteria (long periods of low temperatures or heat), biophysical criteria (soils with poor drainage, stony, sandy or clay soils; shallow root depth; salt soils) and geographical criteria (areas with an unfavourable water balance or a high slope of the ground).
i am in favour of the allocation of adequate compensatory payments to less-favoured areas so that farmers can help to preserve the countryside and adopt sustainable agriculture that provides public goods such as landscapes, water and air quality, as well as the preservation of biodiversity.
a committee of experts identified eight soil and climate criteria which, starting from a certain threshold value, indicate the existence of severe limitations for european agriculture.
i hope that the member states will be able to apply objective biophysical criteria adapted to the conditions of their natural environment in order to designate areas with natural handicaps.
such aid is crucial to preserve rural employment and communities, the continued use of agricultural land, as well as biodiversity and the cultural landscape.
in an environment of constant change and increasing competitiveness, icts can be a powerful tool in helping to achieve sustainable development and combat poverty and social and economic inequalities.
they enable efficiency by helping sustainable growth.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
i agree with the rapporteur that he has a positive assessment of the improvements in the internal control environment of the cor, in particular with regard to the inventory of its main administrative, operational and financial procedures.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
i would like to stress the importance of the recommendation for the coordination of the positions of the two regional blocs in the negotiations on the united nations framework convention on environment and climate change.
we call for clear guidelines on how best to work together to promote political stability, combat climate change, manage migration flows and prevent natural disasters.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the ultimate objective is to create a euro-latin american area of comprehensive interregional partnership by 2015 at political, economic, commercial, social and cultural levels, with a view to ensuring sustainable development in both regions.
there are also other relevant issues that link the eu and canada, such as community aid, particularly to haiti, fisheries issues, and environmental concerns.
the special toxicity of the use of cyanide and the effects of its use on the mining operation, both for those who use it and for the fauna and flora surrounding the mines, calls for a ban on the use of cyanide in the mining operation, otherwise cases of contamination will increase, with disastrous consequences for people and the environment.
however, and taking into account the current needs of the mining industry, this prohibition cannot be immediate and measures to minimise the environmental impact of the use of cyanide should be considered and introduced.
− i voted in favour of this resolution which proposes a general ban on the use of mining technologies in the eu that use cyanide until the end of 2011, as i believe that the proposed ban is at this moment the only reliable way to protect our water resources and ecosystems from pollution caused by cyanide used in mining.
i would stress the need to oblige companies operating mining installations to take out insurance to cover the compensation for any damage and the costs incurred in repairing and restoring the original ecological and chemical state in the event of an accident or malfunction.
it is enough to see the consequences of applying the blind criteria of the stability pact and of the liberalisations and privatisations of strategic sectors and public services, including financial services, energy, transport and the post office.
it's time to prioritize social sustainability.
the deep crisis to which the reigning neoliberalism has led europe has led the authors of strategy 2020 to seek to wrap their objectives in a social and environmental rhetoric that has been heavily propagandized.
to insist on them is nothing but a genuine 'flight forward', persisting on the path of economic, social and environmental disaster.
the new 2020 strategy also incorporates education, environmental, poverty reduction and investment in innovation targets in addition to employment targets.
many of the issues i would like to mention have already been raised here, but i would say that they are important because we have to think about them in the development model we are living in today, and they are fundamental to allow us to rethink it, both in terms of reducing dependence on fossil fuels and in terms of reducing carbon dioxide emissions, as has already been mentioned, and in terms of improving energy efficiency and enhancing the potential for using energy from non-renewable sources.
mr president, the limitations associated with electric vehicles, such as the pollution associated with the production of batteries, the difficulties in supplying strategic elements such as lithium, the reduced range of vehicles, among others, discourage commercial or propaganda voluntarism.
the commission has just presented the communication on clean and energy efficient vehicles in which it sets out a neutral view on electric vehicles, giving no priority to any of the specific options available, whether electric, hybrid or hydrogen vehicles.
i would therefore remind the commission of the need to give priority to the financial resources allocated to this purpose, especially because of the simple fact that electric vehicles have as an added value an excellent energy storage capacity, which other options do not have and which is so necessary for our energy independence.
the eu and central asia share common challenges in energy, the fight against climate change, drug control and the fight against terrorism.
− at a time when the debate on co2 emissions has become inevitable, at the heart of the discussion on climate change, and when volatile fuel prices have made it unsustainable (at least in the long term) to maintain the current energy dependence on oil and its derivatives, it is important that alternatives are found.
in view of the fact that electric vehicles are an important innovation and have a high long-term economic potential, being responsible for reducing co2 and other pollutant emissions, improving energy efficiency and promoting innovation, based on technological leadership, there should be a european strategy for electric vehicles, supporting the industry in developing clean and viable technologies and supporting the creation of a single market for electric vehicles.
− the challenges of climate change, co2 and other pollutant emissions and volatile fuel prices have created a climate favourable to the development of electric vehicles worldwide.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states, in particular through the implementation of the energy union strategy and the energy union strategy.
i therefore welcome the priority given by the spanish presidency to the development of electric vehicles in the fight against climate change and i welcome the commission's communication of 27 april 2010 on a european strategy for clean and energy-efficient vehicles.
in the face of the associated air pollution and the inexorable depletion of fossil fuel reserves, particularly oil, over the next few decades, in the unfortunately likely event that the current energy paradigm persists, the development of electric vehicles is an important option to consider.
above all, the 'target of a transport system with much less carbon emissions by 2050' referred to in the resolution should imply a significant increase in the development and promotion of the use of various types of public transport - public, so that they are accessible to all - where electric vehicles should ensure a strong presence.
− the growing concern about co2 emissions and climate change makes it imperative to move quickly to make electric vehicles a viable alternative to today's vehicles in the near future.
the new regulatory framework should therefore take into account the need to create the conditions for the sustainability of the european automotive industry in the medium and long term, enabling it to remain at the forefront of technology and innovation and economically sustainable.
the new regulatory framework should encourage the manufacture and use of electric vehicles, as well as environmentally friendly research and the development of cars with a lower environmental impact and emissions.
environmental factors also affect health, so it is necessary to combat the environmental problems responsible for the development of specific types of cancer.
it is therefore important to have a cross-cutting and integrated approach in areas of action such as education, environment, research and social issues, as well as greater coordination between the different cancer research centres in the eu.
the report addresses several important issues, including the need for primary prevention and control of diseases that can lead to cancer; the importance of screening; the insufficiency of the funding currently available for the fight against cancer in the eu - particularly public funding; the need to reduce occupational and environmental exposure to carcinogens; the need to update lists of carcinogens; the protection of cancer patients and chronic patients in the workplace.
their influence in the energy sector also implies a profound change in our society, making it more decentralized, flexible where distribution is synonymous with greater wealth.
the use of ict and network technologies allows for more efficient energy consumption, for example through the development of electricity distribution networks, smart buildings, smart meters and efficient transport.
it is essential to develop an innovative european smart grid with instruments to measure and control energy efficiency by implementing smart metering, in accordance with the timetable set out in the third energy market package.
consumers will thus be able to manage their energy consumption by balancing the demand curve.
ict can also play an important role in measuring and quantifying the global effects of climate change and in evaluating climate protection measures, thus contributing to improving climate policy.
- i voted in favour of the report on the use of information and communication technologies to facilitate the transition to an energy-efficient and low-carbon economy.
information and communication technologies can play a significant role in mitigating the effects of climate change by reducing energy consumption, increasing energy efficiency and further integrating renewable energies.
− at a time when reducing co2 and greenhouse gas emissions and investing in renewable energy and green technologies are a priority, this report is extremely timely.
the commission is therefore proposing measures to enable information and communication technologies to be used in order to make the transition to a more efficient energy economy possible at the lowest cost to citizens and businesses.
the need to foster sustainable growth, reflected in the well-being of the population and the economy today, but also in solidarity for future generations, is truly crucial.
− information and communication technologies can make a significant contribution to the energy efficiency of the eu economy, particularly in the case of buildings and in the transport sector.
in this context, i welcome the efforts made by the commission to promote smart meters and smart grids in energy production, distribution and use.
− the mobilisation of information and communication technologies can undoubtedly facilitate the transition to an energy-efficient economy, as this is also a way of reducing energy consumption, increasing energy security and contributing to reducing environmental damage, particularly greenhouse gas emissions.
however, we know that there is a slowdown in progress and in the realisation of the potential of energy efficiency and energy saving, not only because of the maintenance of interests of existing economic groups, but also because of the lack of support for the changes that need to be made.
we therefore support several of the proposals in the report, in particular those which encourage the use of icts in planning a new transport policy and increase its intermodality, those which urge the commission to take a different view of the priorities for support, taking into account these issues of the mobilisation of information and communication technologies to facilitate the transition to an energy-efficient economy in a number of areas such as industry, health, housing, as well as transport and mobility.
- i welcome the initiative of the european commission to present a general policy framework for european action on adaptation to climate change.
i also believe that priority should be given to complementary measures to promote the community strategy to support the 20% energy efficiency target by 2020, with the possibility of making this target legally binding at community level.
among the adaptation measures presented, i would like to emphasise the solidarity between eu member states towards the less-favoured regions and the regions most affected by climate change, and it is therefore important that the commission considers increasing public funds allocated to international cooperation in the future.
the commission has also launched a new r & d framework programme to support the fight against climate change.
i would also stress the importance of the role of research and technology in the development of a low-carbon society, recalling the recent commission communication on the set-plan and the logic of intervention between the public and private sectors and between community, national and regional funding.
- i voted in favour of the report on the commission white paper entitled 'adaptation to climate change: towards a european framework for action'.
adaptation measures are needed to address the challenges posed by climate change.
i believe that adaptation to climate change is key and will allow us to improve the current emergency management systems, which could be made more efficient by combining satellite and ground-based observations.
- as i said yesterday on the vote on the spéphane le foll report on eu agriculture and climate change, 'environmental concerns, while legitimate and necessary, in the agricultural sector, must weigh the impact of proposals in terms of sustainability and agricultural productivity. "
the same is true across sectors of activity, so it is essential that the eu develops a strategy to tackle climate change by making a serious commitment to sustainable development, seeking to reduce its carbon emissions without compromising productive activities, particularly industries.
any policy on climate change, especially in the context of the economic and financial crisis, must seek economic efficiency and sustainability, by putting innovation and research at the service of new techniques and new solutions that are more environmentally friendly and equally efficient and competitive.
the focus should be on clean energy, more efficient use of natural resources and strong investment in research and more environmentally friendly technologies, so that european competitiveness can be maintained and job creation enabled in a sustainable development framework.
− the eu must maintain its leadership and ambition in the fight against climate change.
in this area, scientific study is essential both for combating and adapting to climate change so that we can take the right and safe path.
in areas such as water, energy and forests, i believe we should have common european policies.
the risks posed by climate change to the most vulnerable regions of europe need to be addressed urgently.
i would also stress that natural ecosystems are the most important carbon sinks on earth, sequestering 50% of the world's annual greenhouse gas emissions and contributing to mitigation and adaptation.
i also welcome the importance the eib attaches to smes, sustainable energy, and climate change mitigation, as well as to investments in eu convergence regions particularly affected by the recent economic slowdown.
i would, however, ask that future reports include details of the large loans which complement erdf grants to regions implementing technologically advanced programmes, or programmes relating to the supply of renewable or green energy.
the bank's main objective is to contribute to the integration and sustainable development and to the economic and social cohesion of the eu member states.
− the eib's role in the eu economy is of great importance, as it is the guarantor of financing operations within europe which are concerned with: ensuring economic and social cohesion, preparing the knowledge economy, developing the trans-european transport networks and their access networks, supporting small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), contributing to the protection and improvement of the environment and ensuring the existence of sustainable, competitive and secure energy.
the adverse consequences of climate change have also contributed to the deterioration of the situation in nigeria.
i call on the federal government of nigeria to ensure equal rights for all citizens and to combat the problems of control of fertile land, access to resources, unemployment, poverty and climate change mitigation.
i call on the commission to continue the dialogue with nigeria under the cotonou agreement to address the root causes of the conflict, while addressing issues that are fundamental to sustainable development, such as climate change, energy security, capacity building and education.
mr president, i would also like to start by congratulating mrs ţicău on her work and persistence on this very important dossier and on the work she has done to improve the energy performance of buildings and to make europe more sustainable.
the energy expenditure in the european union, as we know, is far above what is acceptable, and that is why it is so important to put forward proposals of this kind.
the construction sector is considered one of the sectors, one of the markets with the greatest potential in terms of energy savings, but that's not all.
we must therefore seize this opportunity to invest in the energy efficiency of buildings and their potential to create millions of jobs in the years ahead.
let us therefore use this legislation as a key contribution to the revival of the european economy and we cannot continue to waste the investment, which can and must be strategic, for the recovery from the crisis and let us hope that there is investment from the commission and that the member states know how to take advantage of this investment.
mr president, commissioner, the building sector is responsible for 40% of the eu's energy consumption and 35% of its emissions.
this legislation provides that by 2020 new buildings must have a near-zero energy consumption and that existing buildings renovated must meet minimum energy performance requirements.
this legislation will thus contribute to reducing europe's energy dependence, to reducing co2 emissions, to improving indoor and outdoor air quality and to increasing well-being in cities.
encouraging better energy performance in buildings also represents an opportunity to re-skill our cities, contributing to tourism, job creation and sustainable economic growth in the eu.
i therefore call on the commission and the member states to use the structural funds to upgrade buildings to environmental and energy-efficient standards, using this funding as a catalyst for private funding, and to work together to find the right financing model for the refurbishment of existing buildings.
we want to fight social dumping, child labour, social rights and a good quality of the environment.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european people's party is committed to budgetary rigor, transparency and sustainability.
to this end, we have proposed that the amount to be allocated per refugee to the new member states be increased in the first year, slightly reduced in the second year and equal to all other member states making resettlement from the third year onwards, on the condition that this increased amount in the first years - which are the years when it costs the most to set up the new resettlement programme - be used for the development of a sustainable resettlement programme.
− the construction sector accounts for 40% of energy consumption and 35% of emissions in the eu.
this legislation provides that by 2020 new buildings must have a near-zero energy consumption and that existing renovated buildings must meet minimum energy performance requirements.
this legislation will thus contribute to reducing europe's energy dependence, to reducing co2 emissions, to improving indoor and outdoor air quality and to increasing well-being in cities.
encouraging better energy performance in buildings is also an opportunity to re-skill our cities, contributing to tourism, job creation and sustainable economic growth in the eu.
i therefore call on the commission and the member states to use the structural funds to requalify buildings for environmental and energy purposes, to act as a catalyst for private finance and to work together to find the right financing model for the refurbishment of existing buildings.
− i voted in favour of the recommendation on the energy performance of buildings because it presents ambitious and feasible proposals for a 20% reduction in energy consumption and co2 emissions in sectors not covered by the emissions trading system by 2020. this directive will have a direct impact on the lives of european citizens, as it will help consumers to reduce their energy costs and, at the same time, can contribute to the creation of millions of jobs across the eu through planned investments in energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy.
− in 2008, europe committed itself to achieving a 20% reduction in energy consumption by 2020 at the latest and to ensuring that 20% of its energy consumption comes from renewable sources.
improving the energy efficiency of buildings is the most effective way to reduce energy consumption and emissions by 20% in sectors not covered by the emissions trading system.
in addition, efficient buildings provide an average energy saving of 30% compared to conventional buildings.
on 13 november 2008, the commission presented its proposal to amend directive 2002/91/ec on the energy performance of buildings.
in addition, this strategy will create jobs and contribute to sustainable growth.
− the adoption of this directive on the energy performance of buildings is an important step towards reducing co2 emissions and europe's energy dependence.
considering that the construction sector accounts for 40% of energy consumption and 35% of total co2 emissions, energy self-sufficiency of new buildings and improvement of the energy performance of renovated buildings are of decisive importance for the european union to achieve its 2020 target of a 20% reduction in energy consumption and a 20% increase in the use of renewable energy sources and energy efficiency.
in addition to helping private consumers and public services to reduce energy costs, the implementation of this new legislation is expected to help combat the crisis in the construction sector and contribute to the development of urban redevelopment policies, which will have a positive impact on the improvement of the quality of life and well-being of citizens.
− improving the energy performance of buildings is of particular importance in increasing overall energy efficiency in the eu and reducing ghg emissions.
if the european union is to meet its proposed targets of reducing energy consumption by 20%, ensuring that 20% of energy consumption comes from renewable sources and increasing energy efficiency by 20% by 2020, it will have to invest heavily in the best energy performance of buildings.
the political agreement reached between parliament and the council results in clarification of technical aspects, minimum requirements for energy performance according to the age of the building with or without renovation, enhancing the role of local and regional authorities and supporting public authorities in implementing recommendations.
− the issue of energy efficiency is a key issue in the context of the 'strategy 2020'.
this approval is a very important step towards reducing energy consumption over the next few years, towards nearly zero energy buildings by 2020. efforts must be made not only when new buildings are constructed but also when major renovations are made to existing buildings.
i stress the positive impact of the scale of financial amounts to be made available in resettlement support, with a higher amount in the first and second years of the process, in the face of the higher costs that naturally accompany the creation of mechanisms and structures, as well as the importance of ensuring conditions to ensure the best sustainability and quality of the refugee resettlement process.
i therefore welcome an effective, high-quality and sustainable resettlement programme that provides a lasting solution for refugees who cannot return to their country of origin.
an effective and sustainable european resettlement programme will bring benefits to resettled refugees, to member states and to the eu itself, and will give it a prominent role in the international humanitarian arena.
whatever model is ultimately chosen, there is an urgent need for greater cooperation between member states and with first-aid recipient countries in order to provide a lasting, sustainable and coordinated response to this grave humanitarian problem.
the eu must have a long-term productive, social and environmental model which respects the interests of all, companies, shareholders and workers.
the young people must be called upon to take a greater part, in particular, in building the recycling society, in the fight against climate change which has already been achieved with the cooperation and generosity of young people.
in doing so, it identifies specific problems in a number of areas - education and training; employment; health; welfare and the environment; participation; culture and others - such as school drop-out, unemployment, job insecurity and precariousness, unpaid internships, brain drain, environmental degradation, drug addiction, social exclusion and others.
i also think that eco-labelling, which relates to the environmental performance of textile products, is important.
- i welcome the adoption of the legislative resolution granting macrofinancial assistance to ukraine, as it will enable it to cope with the consequences of the global financial crisis through the sustainability of the budgetary situation and external accounts.
conditioning this assistance on imf requirements and the 'key principles and objectives of economic reform set out in the eu-ukraine association agenda' means, inter alia: - the establishment of 'a comprehensive eu-ukraine free trade area'; - compliance with the 'eu common foreign and security policy (cfsp) objectives'; - 'intensification of coordination through military channels to address issues of common interest'; - ukraine's possible participation in the eu naval operation atalanta; - establishment in ukraine of 'a fully functioning market economy' and the eu-defined principles of macroeconomic stability; - exchange of 'best practices' between the eu and ukraine on reform of the social security system with the aim of 'improving the sustainability of ukraine's pension system'.
− the economic and social development of the outermost regions of the european union is conditioned by their peripheral location, insularity, small surface area, adverse climate and geographical situation and economic dependence on a small number of products.
this dossier falls within the scope of article 349 of the treaty of lisbon, which provides for aid to the outermost regions in view of the permanent difficulties they face as a result of their geographical situation, topography and climate.
this budget proposal includes provisions on the representation of croatia, the reinforcement of the secretariat for members, the increase in posts, the increase in the annual number of visitors invited by members, the reduction of parliament's carbon footprint and the financing of the house of european history and the visitor centre.
this report reflects a sensible budget, geared towards a european parliament sustainability policy, but which nevertheless has a rigorous approach to the effective use of available resources.
the cap is of vital importance to the eu, both because it ensures safe food production and because of concerns for the preservation of the environment or rural areas, with a view to effective sustainable development.
- i voted in favour of this report because i believe that simplification of the cap is essential for the competitiveness of european agriculture, for the preservation of jobs and for the sustainable development of european rural areas.
in this way, jobs are preserved and created and a contribution is made to the sustainable development of our rural areas.
public administrations should be encouraged to use ecological, social and other criteria in the award of public contracts.
i urge the commission to explore the possibility of using public procurement compatible with environmental protection as a tool to promote sustainable development.
- in the face of the economic and humanitarian crisis the world is facing today, it is more urgent than ever that community development aid policies should be pursued in a coherent and united manner and in full coordination with the other policies of the union in the fields of trade, the environment, etc.
i support this ep report in general and believe it is crucial that eu actors make every effort to reduce barriers to development, achieve the millennium development goals, fight poverty and ensure the practical implementation of human, social, economic and environmental rights in developing countries.
- this report is of the utmost importance in the current world economic climate, as it seeks to provide greater political coherence for the union to achieve the goals it has set itself, such as the millennium development goals.
the eu is the world's largest donor of development aid (the latest figures are €49 billion) and its intervention is focused on both the country and its citizens, so it is a comprehensive community policy with trade, environmental and social concerns.
there are three issues that need to be addressed: first, it is important to consolidate the instruments that have been launched in this emergency climate; a european monetary fund should be set up; eurobonds need to be pushed forward; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the european banking sector.
- i voted in favour of this recommendation because it effectively contributes to making it easier for european consumers to choose products that consume or indirectly lead to less energy consumption.
by adopting this recommendation, the european parliament is contributing to further progress towards the eu's target of improving its energy efficiency by 20% by 2020, with a balanced text that ensures a win-win situation for the market and consumers.
− the present initiative, like the one we voted on yesterday on energy efficiency in buildings, is part of a legislative package on energy efficiency that was presented by the commission in november 2008 and which has been the subject of extensive debate in parliament, the commission and the council, and has now finally reached agreement on the final text.
in addition to the positive consequences for the environment, the european objective of reducing emissions and the creation of an energy-sustainable economy, this initiative also has the advantage of putting consumers at the centre of the decision-making process.
with the right labelling and marking, consumers will know exactly what they are buying and can make their choice based on criteria such as energy efficiency and the lowest environmental cost.
the energy labelling directive ensures adequate information for consumers by making the energy label mandatory in advertising.
in the context of europe's efforts to achieve energy efficiency and reduce energy consumption levels, as well as to combat climate change, it is essential to mobilise citizens for this cause.
this can only be achieved by providing consumers with clear and effective information on the energy consumption of products purchased or to be purchased.
this is how all european citizens are involved in the fight against climate change.
as now safeguarded by this directive, the energy consumption levels of products are assessed by universal criteria and parameters, which allows for reliable terms of comparison, while improving the level of confidence in the technical assessment and the content of the labelled information.
this directive thus has an important role to play in delivering the 2020 strategy and in particular in improving energy efficiency by 20% by 2020.
in writing.
- after this vote, products related to energy consumption, whether for domestic, commercial or industrial use, will have to carry the new energy efficiency label to better inform consumers.
the directive adopted by the european parliament today provides for the addition of new classes to the energy efficiency classification and also applies to products which consume energy indirectly, such as windows.
any advertising of energy-related products or their price should include a reference to the energy efficiency class.
the information provided should guide consumers in choosing products that consume or indirectly lead to less energy consumption.
any advertising on the price or energy efficiency of refrigerators, washing machines or stoves will therefore have to indicate the energy class of the product.
− the eu remains determined to find the best solutions for energy efficiency excellence, so as to achieve a 20% improvement in efficiency by 2020. this new labelling is very relevant for the consumer, as it gives him access to the most appropriate information to make his choices in full awareness of the effect of these choices in terms of energy efficiency.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy efficiency of the buildings is not compromised.
it is easy to see that the heads of state and government who take these decisions travel by private plane and do not waste tens or hundreds of hours a year to get to strasbourg.
it is essential to ensure that the revitalization of the single market takes a holistic approach that integrates consumer objectives, economic, social and environmental concerns, for a renewed single market.
i agree with the rapporteur and stress the importance of the internal market of the european union for european integration itself, for greater social cohesion, sustainable development, competitiveness and economic growth which will enable us to face future developments and compete in a globalised world.
− the construction of a fully functioning integrated european single market is a fundamental process for the deepening of european integration, social cohesion, economic growth and sustainable development of the union.
revitalising the single market requires a common holistic approach by its various players to integrate the objectives of consumers and citizens, particularly those linked to economic, social, health and environmental concerns, in a renewed single market.
a fully functioning single market is a fundamental process for deepening european integration, social cohesion, economic growth and sustainable development in the eu.
it is essential that universities integrate the economic and social environment into their main sphere of action, within the framework of their research and innovation programmes.
this has necessitated eu intervention and financial assistance to improve the level of protection of human health and the environment.
− the protection and enhancement of human health and the environment are priority objectives in european development policies.
europe is thus avoiding a pole of high radioactive emissions and the risk of serious accidents.
in addition to the safety conditions of decommissioning operations, it is urgent that the european community should play an active role in supporting bulgaria to overcome the negative effects of decommissioning on the competitiveness of the economy, energy sustainability and the dynamisation of the labour market.
in this context, the eu intervention strategy should ensure support for the creation of new jobs and sustainable industries in the areas affected by decommissioning.
− with the accession of the countries of central and eastern europe to the eu and the use of nuclear energy by these countries, the eu has found it necessary to provide financial assistance to these countries to deal effectively with radioactive waste in order to improve the level of protection of human health and the environment.
it is essential to promote and implement successful models in the knowledge triangle and to ensure the sustainable development of regional strategic research frameworks for innovation, in collaboration with companies, research centres, universities and public authorities; unlock the potential of cutting-edge regional clusters based on knowledge to mobilise regional competitiveness and the inclusion of cluster development in both the cip and fp7.
in a time of crisis, when it is not only healthy but also urgent to avoid waste and duplication, i believe it is important to make a thorough assessment of the way in which cohesion, research and innovation policies and their instruments (structural funds, seventh framework programme for r & d and the competitiveness and innovation framework programme) are articulated in order to make them more efficient and productive.
− research and innovation are priority areas and absolutely crucial for the competitiveness and success of the european economy in the current global context of crisis, strong competition and increased effort to face new challenges such as climate change and territorial cohesion.
− as the current crisis demonstrates with its profound impacts on economic development, citizens' quality of life and social stability, the sustainability of public finances is a decisive condition for economic recovery and development reliability.
− the main objective of this report was to analyse the long-term sustainability of public finances in the european union with a view to its economic recovery.
in a period of economic contraction, we have nothing left but to reduce public expenditure substantially by cutting waste and optimising the way the state functions.
the 2020 strategy presents important and ambitious challenges for europe in five strategic areas: (i) employment; (ii) innovation and research; (iii) climate and energy changes; (iv) education and (v) the fight against poverty.
- in the european development project, much progress is needed in terms of territorial cohesion, which is crucial in the fight against poverty and social exclusion, the promotion of employment and sustainable development, and social cohesion.
options, instruments and objectives now taken up by strategy 2020. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
the strengthening of the union's mediterranean relations is fundamental and i believe that only political dialogue and closer cooperation between the union and the other mediterranean countries will help to create an area of freedom, justice, peace and sustainable and lasting prosperity.
the enormous potential of renewable energy sources in the mediterranean region is an example of the added value that the european union can exploit and leverage for the implementation of energy efficiency policies, as well as extending the eu's trading space to 800 million people.
- we strongly disagree with the guidelines set out in this report, which essentially point to the attempt to extend the economic dominance of large eu companies over the southern part of the mediterranean, access to and control over natural resources, particularly energy, the exploitation of the labour force and the repression of immigrants.
i therefore believe that the eu should guide its action by encouraging sustainable development, based on the principles of good governance, absolute respect for human rights and good neighbourly policies, which should have peaceful coexistence between these countries and their neighbours as their main objective.
i also support the report's call for a strategy for the development of energy markets in the european union.
what is at stake, as the report itself says, is that the three caucasus countries are essential for the transit of energy resources and the supply of the eu, on which the eu is very much dependent, free trade agreements to make the economies more attractive to foreign investors.
we insist on the environment, but it's obvious that governments only want to hear about these commitments well into the future.
a complaint about an environmental crime: 320 000 tonnes of highly hazardous waste, deposited between 2001 and 2002 in a densely populated area of northern portugal, in the open air, contaminating soil and water, products with very high levels of lead, zinc, cadmium, chromium, arsenic, and the portuguese national authorities, despite being warned, do not intervene.
in fact, in this parliamentary term the socialist government, in reply to a member of the portuguese parliament, has confirmed that this intervention did not take place, an intervention which, in a previous parliamentary term, another socialist minister for the environment had assured would take place, and therefore also an appeal, madam president, for the european institutions to intervene.
i am surprised to see attempts to integrate wine into this labelling system with information on energy value and sugar content resurfacing in the form of amendments to the plenary.
− the multiplicity of sectors and companies affected by the crisis and also by globalisation make it inevitable to ask whether the present european economic model will be viable and sustainable.
in addition to the occasional help, the european union and its member states will have to be able to promote an economic environment free of unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles, friendly to entrepreneurs, which rewards risk and innovation.
the adoption of this regulation is essential to make rail freight transport more competitive than currently used, thus bringing not only economic but also environmental benefits, as rail transport is environmentally friendly.
i would stress the concern and the effort to ensure adequate funding for the european union's strategic development priorities, particularly in the areas of youth and innovation, alongside energy efficiency, combating climate change, promoting employment and gender equality.
i also believe that it is essential to ensure the viability of mechanisms which guarantee the sustainability of the agricultural sector.
in the current context of crisis and of severe pressure on the public finances of the member states, i stress the need to ensure the budgetary sustainability of the european union with a view to pursuing the central objective of social and economic cohesion.
− i welcome the mobilisation of the european institutions to ensure the best efficiency, security and soundness of derivatives markets, recognising their importance for the sustainability of economic development and the need to ensure the regulation and verification of the procedures and transactions linked to the transaction or trading of these financial instruments.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the 'internet of things' is a major economic opportunity, as it will allow the optimisation of production processes and energy consumption, as well as the creation of new jobs and new services for an increasing number of european citizens and businesses.
i believe that new information technologies have significant benefits for our society, but it is important to ensure that any potential impacts on health and the environment, as well as aspects relating to the protection of privacy, are taken into account.
i would stress the need to encourage research and the launching of pilot projects, and to take advantage of the opportunities that are now arising, particularly in optimising energy savings, in production processes, in creating new jobs and new challenges.
the unique geographical and climatic characteristics of the octs provide specific advantages for the development of certain actions in the fields of biodiversity, marine resources, climate change, renewable energy and water, environment, natural resources, health and new technologies.
in the field of natural resources and biodiversity in particular, the outermost regions provide european research with privileged access to tropical ecosystems with unique biodiversity and agriculture, which allow research in the context of the european research area as natural laboratories.
the risk of unanimity around the concept is, however, that it will be emptied, as has happened with other trends such as the environment or the sustainability of the economy or support for entrepreneurship.
- the decisive role of innovation in the success and sustainability of economic and social development and the success of european integration is now widely accepted.
for example, we agree that innovation is one of the elements, not the element, in overcoming the challenges that are currently being posed, both at the global social and environmental level and at other levels equally important to society.
but the priority given to each of the areas in the europe 2020 strategy, such as entrepreneurship, competitiveness, climate change, employment, demographic change and an inclusive society, leaves the documentation and analysis of the needs for innovation in a changing world far behind what would be needed to promote genuine economic and social cohesion, productivity growth, job creation in the member states and their wage appreciation, which we consider to be fundamental.
rich countries are responsible for the current financial, economic and climate crises, but developing countries are the most affected by global warming, and it is therefore essential to step up all measures to combat climate change, such as the transfer of appropriate technologies.
i call for additional funds to be allocated to developing countries and for these to be sustainable in the medium and long term, from the private sector, the carbon market and the public sector of industrialised countries and economically more advanced developing countries.
so i ask you, mr president, do you not think it is urgent to give priority in these macroeconomic policies to social sustainability, rather than continuing to insist on financial sustainability, putting at risk exactly social sustainability?
the challenges posed by globalisation, population ageing and climate change must be met.
mr president, commissioner, i welcome the bonus programme which will integrate the national research activities of the member states and the european commission in the area of the environment and the management of marine resources in the baltic sea.
like the baltic sea region, other regions, such as the south-west europe region, would benefit from concerted action by member states and the commission to address common challenges and support the sustainable development of their regions.
i therefore urge the european parliament and the commission to consider the possibility of creating a joint research programme for the south-west region of europe, focusing on areas of great importance such as the sea, biodiversity, marine energy sources and with a view to the sustainable development of the european atlantic axis and its neighbouring regions.
what is the point of talking about supervision, regulation, sustainable growth if we do not end tax havens and the casino economy?
- i welcome the bonus programme which will integrate national research activities of the member states and the european commission in the area of the environment and management of marine resources in the baltic sea.
like the baltic sea region, other regions, such as the south-west europe region, would also benefit from concerted action between member states and the commission to address common challenges and support the sustainable development of their regions.
i urge the european parliament and the commission to consider the possibility of creating a joint research programme for the south-west europe region, focusing on areas of great importance such as the sea, marine energy sources, with a view to the sustainable development of the european atlantic axis and its neighbouring regions.
the particular semi-enclosed shape of the baltic sea and the flow of vessels that ply it have led to the accumulation of large quantities of pollutants from various sources, which must be removed urgently or else the entire ecosystem of the region will be threatened.
− the baltic sea and its coast have been plagued by problems of pollution, acidification and loss of natural resources and biodiversity.
in order to reduce pollution in the baltic sea, eight eu member states, denmark, estonia, finland, germany, latvia, lithuania, poland and sweden, will implement a baltic sea development programme called 'bonus'.
this programme aims to support scientific development and innovation by providing the necessary legal and organisational framework for transnational cooperation between the baltic states in the field of environmental research in the baltic sea region, which is in line with the eu2020 objectives for research and knowledge.
i welcome the financial support of the european commission for this programme and especially the fact that the participating member states will ensure the sustainability of this programme even after eu funding.
it's important to know why this is the case, why pollution levels are so high.
the potential of a programme like gmes - as is the case with the excellent work being carried out in the azores - to support biodiversity, ecosystem management, adaptation to climate change, the provision of rapid emergency response services, land and marine monitoring or even support for transport policy, not to mention the security aspect it provides, particularly in border control and marine surveillance, must be recognised.
− i welcome the eu's strategic decision to develop a european earth observation facility dedicated to environmental and security areas, led by the eu in partnership with member states and the european space agency, with the aim of promoting better exploitation of the industrial potential of policies for innovation, research and technological development in the field of earth observation.
gmes can bring tangible benefits to europeans in terms of jobs, competence, safety and environmental protection.
gmes is a key tool in support of biodiversity, ecosystem management and climate change mitigation.
it will also help to improve the management of natural resources, to monitor the quality of water and air, to plan cities, to facilitate the flow of transport, to optimise our agricultural activities and to promote renewable energy.
the european earth observation programme, in this context, could be a challenge for the european union by fostering the development of its industrial strategy (in particular the space industry), by creating benefits for citizens in terms of job creation and the development of research for innovation, by improving environmental research and the safety of citizens and, finally, by creating synergies with other sectors, which could create interesting opportunities for smes.
− the regulation on the european earth observation programme (gmes) and its initial operations is designed to provide europe with its own earth observation capability in the fields of environment and security.
gmes, like the galileo satellite navigation programme, is a union infrastructure which makes it possible to manage the environment better and at the same time to increase the safety of citizens.
in the face of climate change and in order to strengthen civil protection this is a very important programme.
in fact, this regulation will provide the means to gather accurate data on land, sea and atmospheric changes.
this is a union infrastructure which makes it possible to manage the environment better and to increase the safety of citizens.
it will lead to more jobs, more security and environmental protection.
- i have approved this motion for a resolution, taking into account that the objective of this agency is to promote the widespread and increasing adoption and sustainable use of all forms of renewable energy, thus underlining in its objectives, which are fundamental for the azores, beyond the conservation of the environment and protection of the climate and biodiversity, economic growth and economic and social cohesion, in particular with poverty reduction and sustainable development and above all regional.
the adoption of this statute must take account of the fact that national and internal priorities are safeguarded, but it must also mention the importance of renewable energy for island, remote and peripheral regions, and we hope that this agency will work towards energy independence for this type of territory and contribute with valid solutions to increase the exploitation of this type of energy, in particular by supporting new tests and studies of the potential of this type of energy source in the regions that suffer most from territorial discontinuity.
- i welcome the approval of the conclusion of the statute of the international renewable energy agency (irena).
renewable energy is one of the key solutions for the future.
different countries have different political and economic approaches to encouraging the production and use of renewable energy.
however, despite its enormous potential, the current use of renewable energy is still limited.
the obstacles are varied and include lengthy import tariff licensing processes and technical barriers, uncertainty about financing renewable energy projects, and insufficient awareness of renewable energy opportunities.
it is therefore essential that the international renewable energy agency fulfils its objective of becoming a centre of excellence for renewable energy, advises public authorities on the preparation of national programmes for the introduction of renewable energy, disseminates information on renewable energy and offers training and advice on best practices and financing options.
- i voted in favour of the statute of the international renewable energy agency, which will make it possible to promote renewable energy and thus contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
- i would like to reiterate today, on the occasion of the european union's signing of the statute of the international renewable energy agency, what i said on 20 october last year: it is precisely because i am constantly concerned about limiting our energy dependence and i am sure that the way forward is towards supporting and developing renewable energy that i am pleased that portugal is a founding member of the international renewable energy agency (irena).
that is also why i support the european community's accession to the statute of the international renewable energy agency.
− irena, of which portugal is a founding member, was officially established on 26 january 2009. the use of renewable energy is one of the main objectives of eu climate change policies.
irena will therefore contribute to the implementation of these objectives, in particular with regard to increasing the share of renewable energy in total energy production by 20% by 2020. i therefore voted in favour of adopting its statute.
− as resources such as oil become less available and more expensive, we will increasingly have to opt for alternative and renewable energy sources such as water, wind, sea waves, solar energy, which are inexhaustible resources.
this is why these resources have become more and more important in the world context, and the creation of the international renewable resources agency (irena) is of extreme importance.
− given estonia's economic indicators and the sustainability of its public accounts, i am in favour of its adoption of the euro on 1 january 2011. in the current context of global crisis and continuing financial market pressure on the euro, estonia's entry into the euro area is a positive sign that reinforces the importance and viability of the european process of economic and monetary integration.
i would like to highlight the example of estonia, which has managed to combine progress with the rigorous and sustainable management of public accounts.
despite the negative economic environment, it posted a deficit of 1,7% of gdp in 2009, while the overall government debt-to-gdp ratio was 7,2% of gdp, well below the 60% reference value in the european union.
· mandatory information on the energy value of the food and the fat content, saturated fatty acids, glycides, with a specific reference to sugars and salt, listed in the respective order on the front of the packaging.
providing consumers with information on the composition and nutritional value of foods, as well as on the main nutritional ingredients and their energy value, is essential to guide them in making informed and informed choices and purchases.
i therefore supported the rapporteur in her amendments rejecting the traffic light system to illustrate carbohydrate, protein and fat levels and her proposals to include, in a visible way, information on the energy value and nutritional value on the packaging.
in this new eu 2020 strategy, it is essential to put people and environmental protection at the heart of governance.
a strategy to accelerate sustainable economic growth, together with reforms to boost and improve competitiveness, is needed.
but it was also necessary to end liberalisation, including in the financial and energy sectors, to ensure greater state control and to prevent them from pursuing their policy of increasing profits at the expense of price increases on consumers and customers and of lowering the value of workers.
- considers that the agreement on the european financial stabilisation mechanism to ensure the stability of the euro is an important first step towards providing the european union with a more robust and sustainable economic and monetary policy framework, but regrets that european policy makers have not acted decisively earlier, despite the deepening financial crisis; - consider that recent events show that the euro area needs bolder economic governance and that a monetary pillar without a social and economic pillar is doomed to failure; - agree that in order to restore healthy growth rates and achieve the objective of sustainable economic development and social cohesion, priority should be given to addressing the issue of persistent and significant macroeconomic imbalances and competitiveness disparities.
− i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that strengthening economic governance must go hand in hand with strengthening the democratic legitimacy of european governance, which must be achieved through closer and more timely involvement of the european parliament and national parliaments throughout the process; because i agree that for the europe 2020 strategy to be credible, greater compatibility and complementarity between the national budgets of the 27 member states and the eu budget is needed and why the eu budget should play a more important role by pooling resources; and because i consider it important that the eu budget should reflect the need to finance the transition to an environmentally sustainable economy.
it is essential that the current situation be exploited, both at the level of the european union and at the level of national governments, to restructure existing economic governance mechanisms and national public finances with a view to long-term sustainability and effective growth of the european economy.
the european financial stability facility to ensure the stability of the euro is an important first step towards providing the european union with a more robust and sustainable economic and monetary policy framework.
sustainable public finances are essential for the stability and growth of the euro area.
but it is important to restore growth rates and achieve the objective of sustainable economic development and social cohesion, and priority should be given to addressing the issue of persistent and significant macroeconomic imbalances and competitiveness disparities.
− the composition and objectives of this committee will be crucial to achieving a multiannual financial framework (mff) to be applied from 2014 onwards, which can be prepared for the major challenges ahead, in particular in supporting sustainable and qualitative growth and long-term investment, in order to deal with the long-term effects of the crisis currently being felt in the eu.
the community has an obligation to protect biodiversity and species conservation by defending animal welfare and taking action against cruel cetacean killing.
the preservation of whales and their habitats is now of enormous economic and social importance to many coastal communities in the development of activities around them, such as whale watching, with real impacts on the sustainability of these communities, such as in the azores, my home region, where the transition from the historical practice of commercial whaling to this new activity has taken place.
we must not forget that this is an activity with significant environmental impacts, as already mentioned.
priority should be given to more environmentally sustainable production methods such as organic aquaculture.
in addition, strong, committed and persistent support is needed for research and development in the sector that enhances its environmental and economic sustainability and viability.
i therefore wholeheartedly support your report and urge the commission to take due account of its main recommendations, in particular the need to provide the future fisheries policy with a single and harmonised regulatory framework, to establish clear environmental criteria and requirements, to reduce the bureaucratic obstacles to the licensing of new fisheries, to step up monitoring to ensure compliance with environmental standards and product quality and to provide the appropriate financial incentives under the european fisheries fund to meet the high investment required by innovation and the high technology used by the sector.
the declaration recalls that it is primarily the responsibility of states to create an environment favourable to the activities of human rights defenders, allowing individuals, groups and associations to pursue political activities aimed at promoting and protecting human rights without restrictions other than those authorised under the european convention on human rights.
- i voted in favour of this proposal, considering that the sustainability of resources is essential, to which a good documentation process can make an important contribution.
the high monetary value of this type of catch justifies the high controls, but it is necessary to note the complexity of the documentation programme: the commission has also proposed that the european union should be able to provide a legal basis for the application of the rules on the protection of the marine environment.
factors such as the depletion of bluefin tuna, the extremely high prices paid for the fish (whether caught legally or illegally) and the difficulties in controlling fishing activities and trade make the measures currently in place insufficient for sustainable fishing.
the sustainability of the planet is at stake, through the preservation of its resources, fauna and flora, which should deserve increasing attention from the eu legislator.
the aim of the parliament's report, which i support today, is to find a balance between the growing environmental concerns about the near disappearance of bluefin tuna and the economic and social importance of the european union's fishing industry by incorporating into community rules the conservation and management measures adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
finally, i would like to stress the need to involve russia in the eu baltic strategy, specifically in improving maritime safety and ensuring a high level of environmental protection.
calls on the hr/vp and the member states to take measures to ensure the sustainable opening of all crossing points to and from the gaza strip, with adequate international final control, in order to allow the free movement of humanitarian and commercial goods necessary for reconstruction and a self-sustaining economy, as well as the free flow of currency and people;
in writing.
the political climate in bosnia and herzegovina is unstable and there is no common vision shared by all political forces.
the climate of political instability and the lack of a common vision shared by all political forces should be emphasized in particular, and there is now an increasing use of incendiary language, which undermines the process of inter-ethnic reconciliation and the functioning of state structures.
i welcome the agreement to reduce noise and emissions from aircraft and the intention to increase technical cooperation between the eu and the us in the fields of climatology, research and technological development.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
a more competitive rail transport system than the current one brings not only economic but also environmental benefits hence my vote.
as one of the signatories of the proposal, i would like to reiterate the need for the european council to resume work on the revision of the european union solidarity fund with a view to creating a more robust and flexible instrument to respond effectively to the new challenges posed by climate change.
member states and regions affected by the natural disaster should pay particular attention to the sustainability of their reconstruction plans.
it is also necessary to strengthen this sector through the necessary investments - without prejudicing other sectors and taking into account the various environmental impacts - because this, as a complementary activity for our coastal communities, can also contribute to combating the fisheries deficit that normally exists in our food balance.
- i voted in favour of the milana report for advocating the need for sustainability in the development of an efficient, economically viable and environmentally friendly european aquaculture in the medium and long term.
so when we discuss the future of the common fisheries policy (cfp), it is crucial to look at the potential of aquaculture to provide high quality fish with a lower environmental impact, as this can reduce the capture at sea of species at risk.
on the contrary, it is governed by a series of community rules of various origins (environment, public health, etc.)
the environmental impacts of aquaculture are now one of the main constraints on the development of the activity.
in many cases, problems persist in the discharge of effluents with high pollutant loads into the natural environment.
the report recognises these and other problems, and rightly points to the importance of investment in research and development in overcoming them by improving the sustainability and environmental and economic viability of the activity.
despite the fair criticism of the 'proliferation of private certification', we believe that more should have been done in this area, clearly advocating the importance of a public system of certification of the food and environmental quality of aquaculture products.
in madeira this is a key issue and, when the economic and social development plan for the autonomous region of madeira for 2007-2013 was drawn up, the fisheries sector, and in particular aquaculture, was identified as one of the thematic priorities, highlighting the need, among others, to promote sustainable management of resources with a view to their conservation and exploitation, while also seeking to promote greater transparency of the markets for aquaculture products.
it should be noted that only with adequate funding, in particular through the european fisheries fund, and the use of new technologies and experimental research will it be possible to achieve a structured and sustainable development of the sector, which is environmentally balanced and promotes competitiveness among operators, thus giving greater quality assurance to consumers.
how can we sustain the need for sustainable growth if, in the meantime, all national policies are geared to the same objective, namely to reduce wages and increase the most unfair taxes, in particular vat?
this is what is required by a modern and efficient transport system, which is able to meet the major challenges facing the sector, such as increasing safety and reducing its environmental impact.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me congratulate and thank all those involved in this report, which was adopted by a large majority in the committee on the environment - 55 votes in favour, 3 against and no abstentions - and i thank them for the work and the involvement that made this report possible.
biological waste accounts for about 30% of municipal solid waste.
we must not forget that waste is responsible for more than 109 million tonnes of greenhouse gases.
they are actually the fourth largest source of greenhouse gas emissions, after energy, industry and agriculture.
it is appropriate that bio-waste be regarded as a resource.
the potential of bio-waste should be fully exploited.
unfortunately, there is still a large amount of waste being landfilled, which has an environmental cost.
in this report we are obviously defending the waste hierarchy and, in particular, prevention, which must be seen in a broad sense.
the best waste is the one that never has a chance to become waste.
so the public's choices, for example, to avoid gardens that have a lot of greenery or that need a lot of maintenance and that give a lot of waste, are seen in a different way, to avoid that there is this amount of waste that is produced.
for every 10 000 tonnes of waste recycled, 250 jobs can be created, whereas landfilling for the same amount of waste can only create 10 jobs.
waste is important for the fight against climate change.
we have basically defended strategy 2020 with sustainable development, smart development and inclusive development.
this is a report which has ambition but also realism, because, for example, in the case of selective collection, we want it to be compulsory, but only if it is possible from a local point of view, provided it is possible from an economic and environmental point of view.
at the same time, the spanish presidency has never lost sight of the implementation of european political priorities, especially in the environmental field.
in this connection i would like to highlight the cooperation of the spanish presidency in the preparation and debate of my report on bio-waste, which the presidency unconditionally supported and which was adopted by a large majority in the plenary this week.
the barcelona convention reflects a common concern among all the countries sharing the mediterranean coastal zones for an integrated and sustainable management of those natural resources.
however, the eu should not limit itself to its role as a mere contracting party, but should take a proactive stance in pursuing the objectives of the iczm protocol, such as the sustainable use of natural resources and the preservation of ecosystems, and in effectively complying with the regulations regarding economic activities in coastal zones.
- i welcome the adoption of the protocol on integrated coastal zone management in the mediterranean which contains the basic principles for better environmental protection in these zones, including the sustainable use of resources, the preservation of coastal ecosystems, as well as specific provisions relating to certain economic activities that may affect coastal zones, such as construction, tourism, fishing, aquaculture or maritime activities.
the protocol on integrated coastal zone management (gizcm protocol) aims to reverse the trend of worsening environmental conditions in the mediterranean sea over the last few decades, which have been denounced by environmentalists and men of culture such as the spanish writer arturo pérez-reverte.
over-exploitation of fisheries resources, warming, pollution, the disappearance of native fauna and flora and the emergence of species from elsewhere all add to the urgency of an integrated and coordinated response among as many mediterranean coastal states as possible.
− the european union is a contracting party to the barcelona convention (convention for the protection of the marine environment and the coastal region of the mediterranean) as are all the coastal member states of the mediterranean.
in accordance with article 4 (3) of the convention, the parties shall promote integrated coastal zone management, taking into account the protection of areas of ecological and landscape interest and the rational use of natural resources.
the gizcm protocol sets out the general objectives and principles of integrated coastal zone management, such as the sustainable use of natural resources and the preservation of coastal ecosystems.
it also contains specific provisions on economic activities in coastal zones, such as construction, tourism, fisheries, aquaculture and maritime activities, as well as on instruments for integrated coastal zone management (such as environmental assessments, national strategies and monitoring mechanisms).
− the protocol on integrated coastal zone management in the mediterranean (iczm protocol) represents an important effort by the european union to promote integrated coastal zone management, taking into account the protection of areas of ecological and landscape interest and the rational use of natural resources.
the economic activities of the region, such as construction, tourism, fishing, aquaculture and marine activities, should be re-thought, re-evaluated and studied in depth so as not to jeopardise the sustainability of the region, which is essential for future generations.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
there are two major areas of interest for this region: the environment and scientific development.
as i have already said, the baltic sea, because of the particularly serious environmental problems it faces, must be one of the european union's priorities.
it is essential to pursue the objective of greater competitiveness, sustainability and flexibility for these programmes in the context of a globalised world.
− bearing in mind that the recently adopted eu 2020 strategy is structurally based on economic, social and territorial cohesion, a dynamic cohesion policy, and that the structural funds are indispensable instruments for achieving the objective of sustainable and inclusive growth in the member states, and in particular in the regions, i voted overall in favour of the proposals contained in this report.
this is a guideline that is part of and reinforces the eu 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
only then will europe be able to achieve real smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
for these reasons i support the rapporteur's view that there should be more flexibility in the allocation of community funds and aid so that the regions concerned can benefit from modernisation and support which translates into real development and which, in time, can lead to a more sustainable economy.
it is a key issue for the success of a europe committed to combating climate change and urban pollution, to preferring renewable energy sources and to reducing dependence on fossil energy sources.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents.
i therefore voted in favour of the amendments tabled by mr cancian to ensure that the passengers concerned, in particular the disabled and those with reduced mobility, have access to a suitable means of transport and are provided with an adequate level of protection, always bearing in mind the difficult economic environment in which we live and the need for the companies providing this type of service to survive.
this new directive will make a significant contribution to improving environmental performance, energy efficiency, transport safety and the mobility of passengers and goods.
- i voted in favour of the report on intelligent transport systems in the field of road transport and interfaces with other modes of transport, as these will make it possible to improve the safety and organisation of european transport systems, making them more efficient from an economic and environmental point of view.
we know that administrative burdens (and the additional costs they impose) have made the transport of goods by sea less attractive and have been a major obstacle to its full development, even though it is the mode of transport which is least harmful to the environment and, therefore, the one which should be most promoted and supported in a framework of clean development.
− maritime transport is undoubtedly one of the greenest modes of transport and should therefore be encouraged in order to achieve the environmental objectives of the eu 2020 strategy.
− the transport sector is crucial in europe in terms of the service it provides to the european, in terms of jobs and in terms of environmental impact.
this resolution sets out the main lines for european transport policy for the next 10 years with a particular focus on reducing the impact of transport systems on the problem of climate change.
transport is responsible for 25% of co2 emissions in europe.
- i voted in favour of the report on a sustainable future for transport, because the sustainability of transport is fundamental, not only from an environmental point of view, but also for the social, economic and territorial cohesion of the eu.
more efforts and innovative forms of investment are needed to complete the trans-european transport network and ensure the sustainable development of transport in the medium and long term.
− according to the report, the transport sector in the eu accounts for 10% of wealth (gdp), employs over 10 million people and is responsible for 25% of total co2 emissions.
if transport policy is to give priority to ensuring the safety of passengers and users (and that is why we have adopted two initiatives on passenger rights today), it cannot ignore other objectives such as the coherent and harmonious development of all regions, linking the coast and the interior and the large cities to the most deprived areas, or environmental protection and the reduction of co2 emissions, giving priority to less polluting means such as maritime and rail transport, which should become a priority for the transport of goods.
transport policy must therefore not be dissociated from other policies: regional, environmental, economic, social and employment policies.
the transport sector produces 10% of the eu's wealth in terms of gross domestic product and provides more than 10 million jobs, but it also accounts for around 25% of total co2 emissions.
however, it can only make a decisive contribution to reducing exhaust gases and noise and to reducing transport bottlenecks if two conditions are met: on the one hand, the internalisation of external costs must cover all modes of transport and, on the other hand, revenues must be reversed to the benefit of the sustainability of the infrastructure.
- the report includes guidelines for the future of the transport sector which we consider to be indisputably necessary, such as investment in more environmentally sustainable transport and its proper articulation, the development of sustainable urban mobility plans, the promotion of public transport, the recognition of passengers' rights, in particular those of people with reduced mobility, the adoption of measures to increase road safety and respect for the rights of workers in the sector.
given its weight in the economy, this sector will play a key role in the eu 2020 strategy, especially in terms of reducing co2 emissions.
therefore, and despite its importance for the economy, employment and the professional and private mobility of people, investment is needed in the environmentally friendly improvement of transport, including road transport, as well as in safety, as this sector was responsible for the deaths of around 39 000 people in 2008. so, despite the crisis that has hit this sector hard, now is the time to make a big transformation of the sector, making it safer, more sustainable and more efficient.
it is important to look ahead to the future of transport in terms of sustainability and interoperability and i therefore welcome the proposals in the document which set targets to be achieved by 2020 and which aim, in particular, at a percentage reduction in co2 emissions and a reduction in the accident rate.
the majority of petitions continue to express concern about the implementation of european legislation in the internal market and the environment, as these are the areas where member states fail most to implement community directives.
efforts to invest in skills, training and sustainable job creation need to be intensified, as well as the promotion of the principles of flexicurity.
however, i believe that the european social model, whose objectives focus on sustainable growth, full employment, the promotion of well-being and social protection, has the necessary conditions and means to lead the eu and its member states through the crisis.
with the current model having proven to be both ineffective and not the most suitable for job protection, it is essential that we find new ways of overcoming the crisis and creating a sustainable long-term employment policy.
it calls on the council to take this reality into account and to adopt concrete measures to protect quality and decent employment and create sustainable work opportunities in the framework of the eu 2020 strategy.
− the selective collection and recycling of bio-waste is fundamental to europe's sustainable development.
i voted in favour of this report because it calls on the european commission to draw up a proposal for a specific directive on bio-waste by the end of the year.
the new legislation should stipulate the mandatory selective collection and recycling of bio-waste.
- waste treatment is a problem affecting europe and humanity.
tons of waste are generated every day, causing harmful environmental damage and negative impacts on the health and quality of life of citizens.
the current legislation on bio-waste does not meet the needs of regulation of the matter.
i welcome the initiative to propose a specific directive to achieve the objectives of effective and sustainable management of bio-waste (better legislation, simplification, clarity and legal certainty).
the problem is not only the harmful environmental impact of the normal landfilling of this waste, but also the relevant role in fertilizing the soil and the entire energy potential underlying it (via biogas) which can be used to generate electricity, heating or automobile fuel.
a specific directive on the management of bio-waste seems to me to be a basic corollary to the implementation of the principles contained in the framework directive on waste.
it is necessary to compile scattered standards, harmonize practices and boost the internal market through environmental synergy, recycling and the creation of green jobs.
− efficient management of bio-waste not only provides environmental benefits but also makes a positive contribution to society and the economy.
the importance of improving the efficiency of bio-waste management and of prioritising prevention/reduction of bio-waste will contribute to the promotion of sustainable development and sustainable management of natural resources.
the positive effects of better management of bio-waste should not be overlooked, in particular the impact on the functioning of the internal market, on the future of agriculture through the preservation and restoration of soil fertility or the promotion of renewable energy.
the importance of bringing together the vast body of legislation on bio-waste management into a single piece of legislation and the need to harmonise member states' policies through a specific bio-waste directive is thus underlined.
- i voted in favour of the report on the commission's green paper on the management of bio-waste in the european union, as it will strengthen environmental protection in the eu and help combat climate change by making selective collection and recycling of bio-waste compulsory.
− the mere observation of the amount of bio-waste we throw out daily and which comes from our private consumption should alert us to the need to explore properly the best ways of using it and of reducing its impact on the environment.
i believe that a directive aimed at an effective improvement in the management of this type of waste could be of great benefit to all citizens in the member states.
- i welcome the adoption of this resolution, for which i am rapporteur, which calls for the development of a specific directive on bio-waste by the end of 2010 and the establishment of a mandatory separate collection system for member states, except where this is not the best option from an environmental and economic point of view.
the amount of bio-waste generated in the eu is estimated to be around 100 million tonnes per year.
waste is the fourth largest source of greenhouse gases in the eu, especially when landfilled.
the resolution aims to encourage the diversion of bio-waste from landfills, to encourage the production of high-quality compost to recover soils without chemicals and to stimulate the creation of renewable energy.
the european commission has so far insisted that a directive on this waste stream is unnecessary.
i hope that the commissioner responsible for the environment dg will read the report, understand the position of the large majority in parliament and stop taking an autistic view on this matter.
- the management of bio-waste, which is absolutely necessary for the healthy existence of the human species and its harmonious balance with nature, should not be seen in the light of narrow commercial interests.
the report under discussion refers to the obligation for member states to have a separate collection system and the appropriate treatment of bio-waste through anaerobic digestion and composting.
the report is laconic in terms of measures to prevent the production of waste, with the discourse focusing almost exclusively on recycling.
reduction is one of the best ways of combating waste problems.
the possibility of home composting is mentioned, which allows many bio-waste to be diverted from the general treatment system - a question not addressed in the report.
− i consider measures to improve the management of bio-waste in the european union, taking advantage of its wide-ranging environmental and economic benefits, to be fundamental.
with the economic and territorial expansion of the european union, the quantities of waste generated are increasing, with the amount of bio-waste produced annually in the eu estimated at around 100 million tonnes of food and garden waste and 37 million tonnes of waste from the food and beverage industry.
many of these biodegradable garden, kitchen and food waste can and should be harnessed as a source of renewable energy and in recycled materials.
in this way we will not only be contributing to the fight against climate change, but also to the promotion of healthier soils and the slowing of biodiversity loss.
- i welcome the overwhelming approval of this report, as it focuses on the pressing issue of the management of bio-waste in the eu and moves towards calling on the european commission to draw up a directive creating a mandatory separate collection system for all member states.
in fact, waste management is a serious and current problem that needs urgent resolution, especially when we consider that the eu produces about 100 million tonnes of bio-waste per year.
it should also be stressed that the eu's commitment to combating climate change, which it is a world leader in, requires proper waste management, as waste is the fourth largest source of greenhouse gas emissions in the eu.
the recycling industry currently creates up to 250 jobs for every 10 000 tonnes of waste recycled.
the call for a specific directive on bio-waste management is an important contribution of this report, recognising that the current bio-waste standards are fragmented and that greater clarity, simplification and legal certainty are needed.
- the management of bio-waste in the eu is an extremely important issue nowadays, not only because of the massive amount of waste produced annually (estimated at 139 million tonnes), but also because of the constant climate change we are witnessing.
the production of bio-waste, by definition, is inevitable, but what can be avoided is its mismanagement, particularly in the case of landfilling, which is the main source of emissions of gases to the ozone layer.
this waste can be transformed into a social asset, because if we can extract benefits from it, then we can renew industries and harness resources that would otherwise be untapped.
the report is an important step towards the sustainable development of the union and i believe, in full agreement with the rapporteur, that the best way to achieve the objectives set out, both for environmental policy and for the internal market, will be through the drawing up of a directive on bio-waste.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is based on the principle of the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against pollution.
the new directive creates a more demanding and up-to-date regulatory framework for industrial emissions, which we consider to be an important step towards better protection of the environment and public health, in particular for people living and working in the vicinity of industrial complexes or in areas under their influence.
the setting of emission limit values for a wide range of pollutants and the need for large emitters to adapt to these limit values by means of the best available technologies establish an important principle: that in order to protect the environment and public health we must implement the best available technologies in production processes, especially those with the greatest environmental impact.
this is the approach we are also advocating for emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases.
the use of market instruments such as carbon trading, which the european union has been advocating, is countered by the need for a regulatory approach that is environmentally effective and socially fair, as opposed to the merchant approach.
we therefore welcome the rejection, at this second reading, of the application of emission trading to nitrogen oxides and sulphur dioxide which some have called for, and we note the amendment which clarifies the possibility of setting limit values and therefore a regulatory approach, rather than a market approach, also for carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases subject to the european emission trading scheme.
however, in pursuing this overall effort to reduce emissions, we cannot fail to take account of the differences between member states and the specificities of each.
the planned, appropriate and justified derogations and the transitional national plans ensure the necessary flexibility in the implementation of the best available technologies without compromising the original objectives of protecting the environment and public health.
we also welcome the express possibility for member states to maintain or adopt more stringent protective measures than those laid down in this directive, in particular those relating to the greenhouse gas emissions already mentioned.
in order to safeguard sustainable production in the different member states and regions, this new regulatory framework now established should be complemented by community measures to support the modernisation of production systems, in particular in the most vulnerable economies.
deforestation, as we know, is one of the major environmental and social problems on the planet, and every year we lose 13 million hectares of forest, contributing to 20% of global carbon emissions and posing a huge threat to biodiversity.
the contribution of deforestation to climate change is undeniable and as such is largely responsible for the occurrence of extreme weather events and floods or even desertification of vast areas of the planet.
this illegal practice puts at risk the sustainable exploitation of timber and the companies that make it.
− i voted in favour of the resolution because i consider that, in the chapter on effective governance in the area of remuneration, shareholders should have the possibility to contribute to the determination of sustainable remuneration policies and that, to this end, they could have the possibility to express their opinion on remuneration policies by means of a non-binding vote at the general meeting of the company on the remuneration report, and that members involved in risk control should be independent of the business units they control, have appropriate authority and be remunerated independently of the performance of these business units.
such repeated practices have led to the development of risk-based business models to the detriment of the sustainable growth of companies.
− this regulation lays down harmonised rules for the placing of novel foods on the community market in order to ensure a high level of protection of human health and life, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests, while ensuring the transparency and effective functioning of the internal market and stimulating innovation in the agri-food industry.
− the novel food regulation aims to establish harmonised rules for the placing of novel foods on the community market in order to ensure a high level of protection of human health and life, animal health and welfare, the environment and the interests of consumers.
the uncertainties about the economic, social and environmental impacts of these new technologies require an increasingly careful assessment.
- i voted in favour of the ippc directive, which aims to prevent and control emissions from industrial installations.
this is an integrated pollution control covering emissions to air, water and soil.
- i voted in favour of the report on industrial emissions because i believe that a balanced agreement has been reached on ensuring an integrated approach to reducing emissions while at the same time ensuring the competitiveness of european industry, based on the best available technologies.
the commission's proposal for a directive aims to consolidate the seven existing directives on industrial emissions into a single instrument.
this effort aims to ensure a high level of environmental protection while at the same time standardising and simplifying procedures across the various member states and reducing unnecessary administrative burdens.
while recognising the need for an ambitious approach to industrial emissions control, in line with the eu's environmental and climate change objectives, i think it is important to point out that the rules and targets imposed on european industries cannot be so ambitious as to jeopardise their competitiveness in a globalised world.
− in 2005, the commission initiated a review of the pcip directive, which resulted in a proposal for a directive on industrial emissions that aims to review and merge the seven existing directives on the subject into a single directive.
the pcip directive covers some 52 000 industrial installations, whose emissions account for a large proportion of all air pollution in the eu.
in addition to polluting the atmosphere, industrial activity also has negative environmental impacts on water and soil and produces waste.
an integrated approach to licensing that takes into account the overall effects on the environment is therefore essential.
- as we said during the debate in plenary, the new directive creates a more demanding regulatory framework for industrial emissions and, with it, conditions for better protection of the environment and public health, in particular for people living and working in the vicinity of industrial complexes or in areas under their influence.
the important principle is enshrined that in order to protect the environment and public health, we must implement the best technologies available to us through scientific and technological development in production processes, especially those with the greatest environmental impact.
the derogations provided for - appropriate and justified - and the transitional national plans make it possible for the various member states and their undertakings to adapt to the new legislation without compromising national production, while safeguarding the original objectives of protecting the environment and public health.
- this directive summarises in one text seven previous separate directives on industrial emissions.
the prevention and control of emissions from industrial installations into the air, water and soil are key to achieving the objectives of a greener economy as set out in the eu 2020 strategy.
it is worth noting that many of the pollutants that will now see their emission reduced are risk factors for health and the environment, contributing to the increase in diseases such as cancer and asthma.
this decision is very important for protecting the world's forests, which are an essential factor in the fight against climate change.
- i voted in favour of the report on obligations for operators placing timber and timber products on the market because the fight against illegal logging is fundamental to halting biodiversity loss and deforestation and is also a key element in the fight against climate change.
european consumers should be able to be sure that when they buy wood and wood products, they are not contributing to deforestation or fuelling an illegal trade that takes advantage of the criminal exploitation of forest resources and puts at risk companies that behave responsibly and respectfully towards biodiversity.
- deforestation continues at a rate of approximately 13 million hectares per year and is responsible for almost 20% of global carbon emissions and is a major cause of biodiversity loss.
we understand the need to preserve forest resources, ensuring their rational and sustainable exploitation and maintaining biodiversity in our forests and woodlands.
− deforestation and forest degradation are the main factors responsible for biodiversity loss.
it is therefore essential to safeguard the integrity, efficiency and orderly functioning of financial markets, to maintain the stability and sustainability of public finances and to strengthen international coordination and cooperation in the field of supervision.
it is therefore essential to safeguard the integrity, efficiency and orderly functioning of financial markets, to maintain the stability and sustainability of public finances and to strengthen international coordination and cooperation in the field of supervision.
to create conditions that allow stable financing of the economy, so as to ensure sustainable growth and employment; to safeguard the single market where the eu must be provided with quality financial supervision to avoid fragmentation of the single market; to allow the eu to maintain its status to defend the euro and the other european currencies, while it is necessary that the eu maintains its status at the level at which decisions are taken, reaffirming its attachment to multilateral procedures, as in this way the eu will be better prepared to assert its values and defend its strategic interests.
it is therefore essential to safeguard the integrity, efficiency and orderly functioning of financial markets, to maintain the stability and sustainability of public finances and to strengthen international coordination and cooperation in the field of supervision.
it is therefore essential to safeguard the integrity, efficiency and orderly functioning of financial markets, to maintain the stability and sustainability of public finances and to strengthen international coordination and cooperation in the field of supervision.
it is therefore essential to safeguard the integrity, efficiency and orderly functioning of financial markets, to maintain the stability and sustainability of public finances and to strengthen international coordination and cooperation in the field of supervision.
− the stability and financial sustainability of banking activity is absolutely crucial for the development of the real economy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
- i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the european financial stability facility and the european financial stability mechanism and future actions, as i considered it essential to define a new framework for economic governance, which is sound, which prevents future crises and promotes sustainable economic growth in the eu.
i hope, mrs ashton, that you will not waste time and will lead the european union to act on the urgent reform of the united nations security council.
madam president, madam high representative, cluster munitions destroy lives and the environment in a disproportionate and immoral way, without distinguishing between military targets and civilians in theatres of armed conflict.
this calls for a major overhaul of the cap to ensure food security and food sovereignty, giving priority to the need for countries and regions to develop their production to meet their needs, while promoting environmental sustainability and rural development; the commission has also proposed that the community should promote the diversification of production and avoid its narrowing, while recognising the specificities of the different sectors and regions; that, by modelling and capping aid, it should overcome the current imbalances between productions, producers and countries.
the condemnation of the historical criterion for granting aid to farmers and its replacement by new criteria, mainly of an environmental nature, the intention to redistribute support more fairly and equitably between farmers and member states, as has already been reiterated by several colleagues here, the recognition that market regulation and risk and crisis management should have appropriate policy instruments.
ensuring this is fundamental for the azores, whose agriculture is an irreplaceable pillar of its sustainable development model.
strengthening the eu-brazil dialogue makes perfect sense as it allows for deeper cooperation in key sectors such as energy security and sustainable development, biodiversity and climate change, etc.
as we look ahead to the 4th eu-brazil summit, it is important to take stock of the progress made and to look at how we can develop this partnership to address common challenges and to harmonise positions, for example with a view to the united nations climate change conference in mexico later this year.
the socialist and democratic group therefore agrees with the report's essential assumptions and conclusions, particularly with regard to the concerns and recommendations concerning the need to ensure the quality and health of imported fishery and aquaculture products and the environmental criteria which should be required for the capture, production and processing of these products.
fishery and aquaculture products imported into the european union must therefore meet the same environmental, social, health and quality requirements as community production.
this report from the european parliament, which has been conducted in an exemplary manner by my colleague alain cadec, is timely and contains a number of important proposals for the sustainable development of fisheries and related sectors, including marketing.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i believe that the prospect of integration into the european union is driving a number of reforms in the western balkans region and should play a positive role in the capacity to strengthen peace, stability and conflict prevention in the region, by strengthening good neighbourly relations and responding to economic and social needs through sustainable development.
- this report places agricultural policy in a strategic role in terms of food security and sustainable development.
the report also addresses the interlinkages between agricultural policy and the fight against climate change.
- i voted in favour of the report on the future of the cap after 2013 because it is necessary to strengthen the cap policies and ensure an adequate budget in order to respond to the challenges facing european agriculture, such as climate change, food safety and quality and the competitiveness of the sector.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation.
the cap reform must be reviewed in the context of the economic crisis and the fight against climate change, while maintaining its competitiveness in the global context.
the agricultural sector is expected to be in a position to make a significant contribution to the priorities of the new europe 2020 strategy on combating climate change, innovation and job creation through green growth, while continuing to ensure food security for european consumers through the production of safe and high-quality food.
− the fundamental change that is urgently needed in the common agricultural policy should, among other things, introduce the principle of the right to food and food sovereignty, give priority to food self-sufficiency and the ability of countries and regions to develop their production to meet national or regional food needs; support activities that promote local production and respect the local environment, protect soil and water, increase the production of non-gmo food and promote seed biodiversity for farmers and the diversity of livestock species.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation.
milk quotas have enabled milk production to be maintained and developed in a sustained manner in the 27 member states, contributing to the matching of supply and demand (european and international) in the dairy sector and allowing price stability and sustainable incomes.
european farmers produce foodstuffs of high safety and quality, with strict environmental and animal protection clauses, and they should be rewarded for this and not harmed.
i also think that we need an agricultural budget which allocates its funds fairly and with special attention to regions such as madeira and the azores, which face permanent constraints due to their peripheral location, insularity, small area, adverse climate and geographical situation and which must therefore receive permanent support.
this would provide consumers with information on the origin of the product and the health, social and environmental conditions under which the product was fished.
- after having voted on the guido milana report on a new impetus for the strategy for the sustainable development of european aquaculture at the last part-session, we are now called upon to vote on another one on the import regime for fisheries and aquaculture products.
i am therefore particularly pleased that the commission is advocating a sustainable aquaculture policy to reduce import dependence in the amp sector.
the existence of economically, environmentally and socially sustainable fisheries and aquaculture sectors in eu countries is incompatible with the trade policy that the eu has been pursuing.
by deregulating and liberalizing international trade, and by turning it towards a logic of competition rather than the logic of complementarity which should govern it, the interests of importers and distributors are being promoted, but at the same time thousands of producers are being condemned to ruin and abandonment, food balance deficits are being increased and basic criteria of quality, food safety and the environment are being called into question.
the eu must join forces to increase aquaculture fish production in a sustainable way in order to reduce fish imports in the amp sector.
the community strategy for the sustainable development of aquaculture was recently adopted.
as i have already mentioned, the issue of fisheries and aquaculture is one of the priorities set by madeira in the current esdp, so the region is in the process of promoting the competitiveness of the sector through sustainable management of resources, diversification of fish production, the enhancement of products from a quality perspective and the qualification of fishing assets in order to increase productivity.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
these recurring disasters destroy natural and cultural heritage, lead to irreparable damage to biodiversity, destroy infrastructure, and exacerbate environmental problems.
only in this way can the egf be used to promote new skills for new sustainable and quality jobs, contributing to the improvement of the union's competitiveness in the context of globalisation.
on the contrary, this assistance is conditional on the imf's imposition and protection of the key principles and objectives of economic reform set out in the memorandum of economic and financial policy, namely: redundancies and freezing of public administration salaries; introduction of measures to further weaken labour relations by cutting workers' rights; increase in the retirement age; increases in energy prices; privatisations; freezing of public employees' salaries; reduction of aid to farmers; increase in direct and indirect taxes; closure of schools and subordination of universities to private financing; deregulation and further liberalisation of internal and external investments.
this temporary suspension of duties will allow local economic operators in the azores and madeira to import a certain number of raw materials, parts, components and finished products duty-free and will cover sectors such as fisheries, agriculture, industry and services, which will provide, in an unfavourable climate, an improvement in competitiveness and a more favourable long-term investment environment for investors.
the suspension is conditional on the end-use of the products and benefits only the economic operators in these regions, and aims to attract investment by providing a long-term perspective for achieving a stable economic and social environment in the region.
- i voted in favour of the view that the new sustainable economy should be based on the provision of skilled employment that promotes innovation in sectors strategic for europe's future, notably energy and research.
the added value of these areas of knowledge, their ability to be relocated, their ability to be found in both peripheral and central regions of the european continent, offer enormous potential in terms of new technologies and the possibility of adapting to the new environmental and human situation.
it will be essential to focus on sectors that promote the prevention and mitigation of the effects of climate change, where maritime regions will have a huge role to play, as well as on alternative ways of producing energy, taking advantage of the natural resources of each of europe's regions.
knowledge linked to innovation in the environment is the future of the new economy, and there needs to be a strong focus on the application of knowledge to new economic uses.
- my vote in favour of this report is based on the recognition of the importance of green jobs in a society that aims to be sustainable.
green work must also be one that contributes by saving energy and natural resources, using renewable energy, preserving ecosystems and reducing the impacts of waste generation and pollution.
- i voted in favour of the report on 'developing the employment potential of a new sustainable economy' because it argues that the creation of green jobs should not be a mere numerical assessment.
it is equally important to know how to ensure good working conditions and how to ensure a transition to a sustainable economy in a socially fair way.
− the number of parliamentary committees involved in the preparation of the report six demonstrates both the importance of the employment issue today and the way in which the concept of sustainability is now an inescapable part of the lexicon and political discourse.
the sustainability of the economy and its potential for job creation are problems shared by workers, businessmen and politicians, technicians and laymen, environmentalists and industrialists, among others.
one of the main problems is precisely the cost of sustainability and how it is shared.
there is therefore a growing need today for sustainability not just to be a broad concept, and therefore difficult to achieve, but rather to be a practical and achievable presupposition for interpreting human action and interaction in the world, including at the economic level, for the benefit of all and not just a few radicals.
− development is sustainable when meeting the needs of the present generation does not threaten the needs of future generations.
we must take an integrated approach to economic, social and ecological interests, intensify social dialogue, strengthen corporate responsibility and adopt the principles of prevention and the polluter pays.
the thinking must be long-term, with the aim of competitiveness and social, economic, territorial and environmental cohesion, and that is why i am in favour of investments in human, social and environmental capital, technological innovation and new ecological services.
this commitment is our contribution to the fight against climate change.
the eu has committed itself to reducing ghg emissions by at least 20%, meeting 20% of its energy needs with renewable energy and increasing energy efficiency by 20% by 2020. according to an ipcc study, limiting global warming to 2°c will only be possible if industrialized countries reduce their ghg emissions by 80 to 90% by 2050 compared to 1990. in this way, it advocates the creation of green jobs that contribute to sustainable growth based on social justice and eco-efficiency and the promotion of employment in the rural world in order to avoid desertification.
- this own-initiative report has positive aspects in several areas and has taken up part of the opinion i was responsible for in the committee on industry, energy and research, although it does not stress, as it should, the need for greater attention to the specificities of each member state.
i would like to highlight a few positive aspects: - considers that a new sustainable economy of the european union must ensure balanced economic and social development, stressing the importance of the public sector; - calls for a sustainable and ambitious industrial policy that puts the emphasis on resource efficiency and stresses that a green economy must offer prospects for decent and well-paid work, that it must focus on energy efficiency, which in turn also contributes to industrial diversification.
- stresses that the transition to a new sustainable economy is a very complex process, and therefore insists on the need to pay particular attention to areas affected by deindustrialisation, either by creating appropriate financial support or by integrated sustainable development interventions, accompanied by innovative measures capable of creating quality jobs with rights and living wages, aimed at reducing regional inequalities and asymmetries, in dialogue with the social partners, and stresses the importance of supporting smes;
in writing.
− the concept of employment in a new sustainable economy is creating a new paradigm in relation to the economic assumptions that have hitherto been regarded as fundamental to economic development and job creation.
a sustainable economy implies major changes in employment potential, and companies in the renewable energy and energy efficiency sectors will play a key role in creating new jobs worldwide.
however, it is essential that other eu countries follow germany's example if a multiplier effect of employment in a sustainable economy is to be seen across the european area.
in addition, i believe it is essential to promote the rationalisation of the food supply chain in order to reduce the environmental impact of food transport, the marketing of local food products and the sustainable development of the rural economy.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is a very good one.
the weak link in this chain is now small and mediumsized farmers, and without fair compensation it will be impossible to successfully combat the human desertification of rural areas and at the same time to reconvert small farming and the associated manufacturing industry in environmental terms.
− the ageing of the population and the slow demographic growth that has been occurring in the eu has been a cause for concern regarding the sustainability of social protection and health systems.
commissioner, your portfolio is 'fundamental rights' and i have been a great supporter of your portfolio and of seeing the energy with which you have been devoted to this portfolio, and i am not recognising the commissioner in this role.
can the services do something so that we do not have to waste our time deleting them?
we have the immediate problems of unemployment and, at the same time, long-term challenges, namely demographic change, globalisation and the adoption of new low-carbon technologies.
the council should agree on an eu-wide commitment to end homelessness by 2015 and prepare integrated policy measures to ensure access to affordable, quality housing with sufficient energy supply for all.
the major challenges are demographic change, globalisation and the adoption of new technologies, including low-carbon technologies.
the environmental catastrophe under discussion today, although it is taking place outside the geographical area of the union, concerns all of us, european citizens.
the notion of sustainable development that we believe in is a concept that has no administrative boundaries, no religious creeds, and that looks at the planet as a whole and not as the sum of its parts.
it is obvious that action to resolve this environmental tragedy must first be taken by the states and local authorities whose people directly benefit from it.
the european union's action in this field must be guided first and foremost by safeguarding the public interest, by a high level of protection of human health, food safety and the environment, and by promoting animal welfare.
it is also important to ensure that administrative burdens are reduced and that the economic, social and environmental impacts of all new commission proposals are assessed with due scrutiny by an independent body, which must, however, be accountable to parliament.
in this context, in accordance with article 225 of the lisbon treaty and because it is an example of 'best legislation', i proposed in an own-initiative report the drawing up of a specific directive on bio-waste, which was approved by a majority in the july plenary session, and to which i hope the commission will respond promptly.
in addition, the union regulatory environment should continue to promote impact assessments and the reduction of administrative burdens.
as the report which i am voting in favour of states, only by significantly reducing administrative burdens and by effectively applying european laws in the internal legal systems, as well as by efficient impact assessments taking account of economic, social and environmental aspects, can we actually legislate better.
i believe that this is too serious a matter to be debated in a more passionate than rational way and that it deserves a different political climate that fosters a debate that is able to resist the clichés.
- i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation of the jordan river because its environmental, landscape, cultural, historical, agricultural and economic value must be preserved.
the problems of the jordan river go far beyond the normal concern about the state of environmental degradation of the waterways.
the jordan river, and in particular its lower course, represents a cultural landscape of universal significance, of great historical, religious and environmental importance.
it has been unfortunately devastated due to over-exploitation, pollution and poor management of its water flow leading to a 50% loss of its biodiversity.
as stated in the resolution, the jordan river basin, particularly in its lower course, is a cultural landscape of universal significance, of great historical, symbolic, religious, environmental, agricultural and economic importance in the middle east and beyond.
the river's state of ecological degradation and the levels of pollution it presents are thus a serious cause for concern.
the desirable and necessary restoration of the jordan river - an environmental, social and cultural imperative - is of course inseparable from the regional geopolitical context.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, the definition of a coherent ecological network at european level, bringing together relevant and representative habitats, many of which are threatened, is an important but not sufficient condition for the preservation of biodiversity.
but effective conservation of biodiversity in its many dimensions also requires its inclusion in a set of relevant sectoral policies and this is where a profound change in the policies pursued by the european union, from agricultural policy to trade policy, is urgently needed.
there is much to be done and invested in eu policies for the sake of biodiversity.
mr president, commissioner, the importance of this report reflects the need to intensify efforts on biodiversity.
i regret that the eu's goal agreed in gothenburg in 2001 to halt biodiversity loss by 2010 has not been achieved.
the consequences of biodiversity loss threaten our future and our well-being and have direct economic repercussions.
the correct application of natura 2000 legislation plays an important role in achieving the biodiversity objectives.
it is also important that the commission ensures that biodiversity issues are more integrated into other policies such as agriculture, fisheries, regional policy, tourism and development.
the budget for scientific research on the environment and biodiversity in the eighth framework programme needs to be increased to meet the major challenges.
for these reasons, it is urgent to set a new 2020 headline target to halt biodiversity loss in the eu and globally.
the united nations has proclaimed 2010 as the international year of biodiversity.
unfortunately, the eu will not meet its biodiversity target for 2010. the loss of biodiversity is continuing at an alarming rate.
in its 2008 mid-term review of the implementation of the community biodiversity action plan, the commission noted that 50% of species and up to 80% of habitats of european conservation interest are in a poor conservation status.
this loss of biodiversity is unacceptable, not only from an ethical point of view but also from an ecological and economic perspective, since we are depriving future generations of enjoying the benefits of a healthy biodiversity.
european policies for the protection of biodiversity need to be coordinated and integrated with other sectoral policies, such as agriculture, forestry, fisheries and natural disaster prevention policies, to ensure maximum protection of biodiversity.
financial speculation is to continue, its main instruments are to continue, derivatives, short selling, swaps or cds, toxic waste is to continue.
what will be required of these companies is that they will now compete directly with pakistani companies, which have no social protection costs for workers, no environmental protection costs, no special care is required of them in the use of certain raw materials, where even child labour - unfortunately, as we know - is a reality that happens often.
mr president, according to the european forest fire information system, 70% of the area burned this year in the european union is portuguese, with some 115 000 hectares burned up to 3 september, 13 000 of which in protected areas of great environmental value and with a socioeconomic impact of 385 million euros.
we know that the destruction of forests causes serious socioeconomic and environmental damage which should be prevented rather than remedied, particularly because recovery is slow, difficult and expensive.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the last year newspaper headlines and news headlines have been occupied on several occasions by storms, floods, heat waves, fires and other disasters, with profound consequences for people, the territory, the economy and the environment.
other disasters have not led to calls for the mobilisation of the fund, although their impacts on the affected populations, the environment and the economy have been considerable and, in many cases, lasting.
often, disasters are fueled by policies that create an inadequate relationship between man and the physical environment around him.
mr president, commissioner, this report is of great importance, particularly at a time when natural and man-made disasters are becoming more frequent and with increasing human, socioeconomic and environmental costs.
i would also like to stress the importance of the proposals put forward by the s-d group, which include the presentation of a proposal for a directive to promote the adoption of an eu policy on water scarcity, drought and adaptation to climate change, as well as legislative proposals in the field of forest protection and fire prevention.
but you should not forget that there is also natural gas of non-fossil origin, biomethane, produced from waste, which, incidentally, several european countries are already producing, of which i would highlight sweden and switzerland, and i think even spain.
madam president, this summit should be used to agree joint positions between the european union and china for the cancun climate conference.
europe must take back leadership in the fight against climate change and positively influence its strategic partners.
china is essential in this fight, not only because it is the world's most populous country and has a booming economy, but also because it is already the largest emitter of greenhouse gases and the largest consumer of coal.
by 2020, china aims to reduce co2 emissions and increase renewable energy and forest area.
the confidence of european businesses and consumers in the digital environment is reduced due to unnecessary barriers to e-commerce, such as the fragmentation of the european market, consumer insecurity, transaction insecurity, lack of redress mechanisms, etc.
it is essential to simplify cross-border rules and to find practical solutions to issues such as copyright, consumer protection, labelling and sector-specific rules, e-waste and recycling rates, online declaration and invoicing.
i voted in favour of this regulation because i believe that it promotes an environment conducive to spontaneous reporting of occurrences, by calling for the efficiency, speed and quality of european civil aviation safety investigations.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents.
- gas currently accounts for more than a quarter of the energy supplied to the european union and more than half of this comes from suppliers outside the eu.
the guarantees of energy supply, particularly gas, are fundamental to economic and social well-being and stability.
the implementation of this regulation will thus contribute to significantly reducing the eu's vulnerability to external disruptions to energy supply and will also strengthen the leading role of european gas companies in the world and the geopolitical positioning of the union as a strategic global player.
and we should not forget that there is also natural gas of non-fossil origin, biomethane, produced from waste, which, incidentally, several european countries are producing, of which i would like to mention sweden, switzerland and spain.
− the security of gas supply in the european union must ensure that all citizens have access to energy for their basic needs, such as cooking and heating, and to essential public services such as hospitals and schools.
prevention is essential here, as is solidarity between member states in times of energy crisis or disaster.
energy security highlights the importance of decentralisation, the variety and proximity of generation processes and the integration of energy networks.
micro-generation is therefore seen as the best guarantee of security of energy supply for the needs of citizens.
- gas is an increasingly important energy source in the eu landscape.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
- declaration of vote the failures to combat biodiversity that have been observed require an urgent european response.
i therefore welcome the clear position that halting biodiversity loss is the absolute minimum level of ambition to be achieved by 2020. this requires a number of measures, some of which are set out in the resolution, and of which i would stress increased crossborder cooperation and the enhancement of biodiversity, particularly from an environmental and economic point of view.
in this context, i would stress, on the one hand, the importance of biodiversity and ecosystem resilience for climate change mitigation and adaptation.
i also think it is important that this resolution recognises that sustainable economic development and nature conservation should not be inseparable and that the development of green infrastructure also has the potential to create jobs.
− i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of eu legislation on the protection of biodiversity, because ambitious measures are needed to halt biodiversity loss and restore ecosystems, including through a cross-cutting approach to the various sectoral eu policies, which recognises biodiversity as a key element in climate change mitigation and adaptation.
- to quote the rapporteur, the loss of biodiversity threatens our food supply, our leisure and tourism opportunities, our ability to cope with climate change and our sources of wood, medicine and energy.
i therefore agree with the need for the eu as a whole, and with particular attention to all areas covered by community policies, to find a sustainable strategy for the protection of biodiversity and the preservation of ecosystems.
i believe that this is particularly relevant in the area of agriculture and fisheries, which is why i am following the reforms being prepared in the cfp and the cap with particular attention, since the proper and sustainable preservation of biodiversity, while essential and desirable, cannot be a brake on the sustainability and development of agricultural and fisheries activities.
the european union is committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
unfortunately, the eu will not meet its biodiversity target for 2010. the loss of biodiversity is continuing at an alarming rate.
in its 2008 mid-term review of the implementation of the community biodiversity action plan, the commission noted that 50% of species and up to 80% of habitats of european conservation interest are in a poor conservation status.
this loss of biodiversity is unacceptable, not only from an ethical point of view but also from an ecological and economic perspective, since we are depriving future generations of enjoying the benefits of a healthy biodiversity.
european policies for the protection of biodiversity need to be coordinated and integrated with other sectoral policies, such as agriculture, forestry, fisheries and natural disaster prevention policies, to ensure maximum protection of biodiversity.
we welcome the inclusion of the proposals we made in the debate in the environment committee on several of its chapters, in particular those on funding and the inclusion of biodiversity in the relevant sectoral policies.
but we cannot but point out and strongly reject the inclusion in the report, albeit incidental and merely as a suggestion for reflection, of the reference to possible innovative systems for payment for ecosystem services.
the loss of biodiversity is one of the consequences of a system - capitalism - based on the exploitation of nature and its resources (beyond their natural regenerative capacity) and their commodification.
it will not be possible to find a just and effective solution to this or other environmental problems within the framework of this system.
- the rapid rate of man-made biodiversity loss is worrying.
biodiversity should be seen as the most reliable barometer of the state of the environment.
so, faced with alarming figures of biodiversity loss in the eu, with 42% of mammals, 43% of birds, 45% of butterflies, 30% of amphibians, 45% of reptiles and 52% of freshwater fish threatened with extinction, i consider the legislation now in place to protect biodiversity, and even to strengthen it, to be fundamental and essential.
− i warmly welcome this report on the application of eu legislation on the protection of biodiversity, which derives from and underlines the importance we all recognise of it in the environmental, economic and social spheres and in sectors as diverse as agriculture, fisheries and tourism.
i am talking about the intrinsic value of biodiversity and the moral duty we have to protect and defend it.
it is man who, having the greatest power over biodiversity, has the greatest responsibility to preserve it, to pass on to future generations this heritage he has received, to enjoy and care for.
the european union is thus doing its part by legislating for the conservation of biodiversity, and this certainly deserves my support.
− the obligation to protect the biodiversity of our resources is an ethical obligation, given the growing threat to ecosystems and the risk of irreversible damage to the environment.
concerns about the preservation of biodiversity also have a social and economic basis, however, as sustainable development is linked to economic stability.
it is therefore essential to integrate this objective of protecting biodiversity into the various areas of action at european level, in particular in the context of the fight against climate change, the eu 2020 strategy and the objective of job creation, by providing the necessary funding for these.
i cannot fail to mention the essential role of fisheries in a country like portugal, and i therefore believe that the common fisheries policy should facilitate compliance with the legislation applicable to biodiversity with a view to the sustainability of this sector.
in other areas of activity, such as agriculture, forestry, tourism, research and innovation, which are central to the outermost regions, their employment potential also requires the development of a sustainable economy and ecological concerns, with policies for resource efficiency and sustainable consumption and production.
according to un data, this vulnerability tends to increase due to, for example, climate change, intensive land use, industrial/urban development.
special attention should be paid to the issue of increased forced migration from areas affected by environmental degradation, where such refugees should be provided with protection and resettlement assistance.
these natural disasters compromise ecosystems and biodiversity, affect sustainable development and threaten social cohesion.
climate change will further exacerbate natural disasters.
- the adoption of this report is of particular importance in a year in which several european countries have been struck by disasters with profound impacts on people, the territory, the economy and the environment.
- to respond to the scourge of poverty in developing countries, these countries need to have an appropriate economic environment.
i also believe that, as mentioned in the report, employment policy should include investment in 'green jobs' and in green industry (renewable energy and energy efficiency).
a broader definition of poverty including deprivation, social exclusion and non-participation should be promoted as proposed in the united nations report entitled 'rethinking poverty - world social situation report 2010. governments in developing countries must diversify their economies, pursue sustainable development, facilitate the emergence of enterprises, especially smes, and combat bureaucracy and corruption.
it starts badly when it subordinates sound and sustainable economic growth to the needs of business.
we all know that this objective can only be achieved by solid and sustainable growth in an environment of stability.
user participation in monitoring is encouraged, national effectiveness studies are encouraged, new awareness of environmental consequences is created and the community monitoring institutions, the prac, are improved.
we all know that the treaty of lisbon has given us new powers and bodies in the fields of external action, sport, climate change, energy, tourism and civil protection, which means that the european union must have sufficient resources to implement its policies and achieve its objectives.
and we cannot forget the european union 2020 strategy which has already been adopted, which calls for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth which must start now, and for this we need financial resources for this purpose.
biodiversity, forest, wetlands and green spaces provide an essential service for all, yet suffer from the consequent constraints on their economy.
a second proposal has to do with energy.
these regions can and should be the seedbed for projects that demonstrate the potential of self-sufficiency and energy sustainability, in particular through microgeneration from local sources.
the clarity of community budgets and multiannual planning, their sustainability and the respect for them by all those involved in the budgetary process, including, of course, the european parliament, must be instruments to eradicate this suspicion and to motivate citizens and political actors to take a more active part in this area of action.
the lisbon treaty brought new powers and bodies and the already adopted eu 2020 strategy, which advocates smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, must now start to be implemented with the necessary financial resources.
we have always criticised the inadequacy of the current multiannual financial framework, which has reduced the structural funds to 0.37% of eu gni, which has meant cuts in programmes of a social and environmental nature, as well as in the fields of research, education and culture.
in the service of full employment with rights, investment and public services, environmental protection, cooperation and peace.
- the lisbon treaty has given the eu new prerogatives in a number of areas, such as external action, sport, space, climate change, and others.
the preservation of the taxpayer's right to deduct vat is of particular importance and relevance in the current economic climate in which the union finds itself.
the eu is no exception and finds this sector a source of economic growth as well as sustainable employment and contributes to the general well-being of european citizens.
the eu is no exception and finds this sector a source of economic growth as well as sustainable employment and contributes to the general well-being of european citizens.
firstly, i believe it is essential to ensure the protection of the environment and animals, particularly in the application of the precautionary principle.
- i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council concerning the placing on the market and use of biocidal products, because it strengthens the rules on the authorisation, marketing and use of biocidal products in the eu with a view to protecting human and animal health and the environment, in accordance with the precautionary principle.
once again, as i have said on other occasions, the rules on this matter must be uniform and valid throughout the eu, otherwise we will not be effectively ensuring the protection of all european consumers and, not least, environmental protection.
− our abstention at first reading expresses our concern about some critical issues that the majority of this parliament has ignored in view of the real need for member states to protect their citizens against the harmful effects on health and the environment of biocidal active substances used on the market.
we believe that this reduction will not be met with the necessary rigour to protect public health and the environment.
we welcome the recognition that member states may take account of regional differences and local environmental problems in their national commitments, as well as the reference to respect for the principle of subsidiarity.
this is intended to strengthen the protection of human health by prohibiting the most toxic chemicals, such as carcinogens or substances harmful to fertility, and to protect animals and the environment.
the commission has put forward a set of proposals aimed at establishing a more efficient, integrated and sustainable system of financial supervision in the eu.
it is therefore essential to safeguard the integrity, efficiency and orderly functioning of financial markets, to maintain the stability and sustainability of public finances and to strengthen international coordination and cooperation in the field of supervision.
it is therefore essential to safeguard the integrity, efficiency and orderly functioning of financial markets, to maintain the stability and sustainability of public finances and to strengthen international coordination and cooperation in the field of supervision.
it is therefore essential to safeguard the integrity, efficiency and orderly functioning of financial markets, to maintain the stability and sustainability of public finances and to strengthen international coordination and cooperation in the field of supervision.
it is therefore essential to safeguard the integrity, efficiency and orderly functioning of financial markets, to maintain the stability and sustainability of public finances and to strengthen international coordination and cooperation in the field of supervision.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
it is therefore essential to safeguard the integrity, efficiency and orderly functioning of financial markets, to maintain the stability and sustainability of public finances and to strengthen international coordination and cooperation in the field of supervision.
− mountain, island and sparsely populated regions face specific challenges which require special consideration, in particular difficulties in access, energy supply and regional integration, as well as the consequences of climate change and migration.
i am convinced that only a specific, flexible and integrated european policy framework with legal and financial implications, capable of adapting to the scale of intervention most appropriate for the region in question, while at the same time responding to common challenges (globalisation, climate change, demographic change), will be able to combat development inequalities between and within member states and regions.
they must be concrete and objective policies which enable the sustainable development of all regions, including those which, for natural reasons, are most difficult and are more remote (in the case of islands) or inaccessible (in the case of mountain areas).
madam president, commissioner, following the environmental disaster in the gulf of mexico, it is important that the eu ensures the protection of its coasts through its prevention and response capacity to such problems.
the european maritime safety agency, based in lisbon, provides technical support and assistance in the field of maritime safety and protection in the area of pollution caused by ships.
in june this year i submitted in writing to commissioners öttinger, kallas and georgieva a proposal to extend the powers of the european maritime agency to create mechanisms for monitoring the safety of european oil platforms and for preventing environmental disasters.
the dependence of mankind on these reserves, in multiple dimensions, not just energy, is high, too high.
we have already stressed the importance of a plan for the sound and fair management of these resources, the mitigation of their progressive depletion and the controlled transition to other sources of primary energy.
when we talk about preserving biodiversity, we are also talking about combating climate change, food security, public health, fighting poverty, achieving the millennium development goals, sustainable development of the planet, in other words, our collective future.
it has also been said here by several colleagues that the costs of biodiversity loss are in the order of 50 billion euros per year, or about 1% of gross domestic product, but it has also been said, and there are studies proving that by 2050 these costs may amount to 7% of gross domestic product, but the return on investment in biodiversity conservation is 100 times higher.
biodiversity is fundamental to climate change mitigation and adaptation, taking into account, for example, the role of terrestrial and marine ecosystems as important carbon sinks, and so we hope that the conference will produce good results.
the preservation of biodiversity is an ethical imperative and an essential condition for the future of the human species itself, which is above any economic consideration.
biodiversity and the set of environmental balances that depend on it are a heritage of our planet, a common good that cannot under any circumstances be subject to private appropriation, a priceless common good whose use and enjoyment, in justice and equity, must be ensured for all.
i welcome this debate with the council and the commission where we can discuss the european union's plans and key strategic objectives to halt the loss of biodiversity, on the eve of the conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity.
i hope that a strong and coherent position of the european union will be brought to this conference with ideas on the concrete measures that will be taken to ensure that the protection of biodiversity contributes to sustainable development.
i remind you that conservation of biodiversity is fundamental to the quality of ecosystems, has direct effects on essential functions such as food production or water availability, prevents landslides and floods.
finally, i would like the political responses to ensure the integration of biodiversity into activities in economic sectors such as agriculture, the forestry sector, the fisheries sector and the tourism sector to have the courage and the ambition to protect this invaluable but extremely fragile heritage, as is the case in my region, the azores, from other blind external interests that may threaten it.
the pressure being exerted by the commission and the european powers on the countries with the weakest economies and the highest levels of poverty is contrary to all the principles of economic and social cohesion which the belgian presidency has spoken of here in the name of the so-called social clause of the treaty of lisbon, in article 9. the truth is that the irrational criteria of the stability pact could only be exceeded if the member states were obliged to support the banks in the wake of the problems they experienced because of the toxic waste they had created.
in the name of sustainability of public finances, austerity policies are being imposed in a number of countries, such as greece and portugal, increasing social injustices, increasing unemployment, poverty and social exclusion threatening 120 million people in the european union.
where does the integration of social objectives and social sustainability in macroeconomic policies stand?
europe must be more competitive and able to face the challenges of globalisation, while at the same time being inclusive and pursuing sustainable development that ensures social integration.
strong and stable financial institutions are key to sustainable capital markets, access to credit, competitiveness and economic and financial stability.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
the european maritime safety agency, based in lisbon, provides support and technical assistance to the european commission and the member states in the development and implementation of community legislation on maritime safety and security, as well as in the area of pollution caused by ships.
in june this year i put in writing to commissioners oettinger, kallas and georgieva the suggestion that the european maritime agency's remit be extended to create mechanisms for monitoring the safety of european oil platforms in the north sea, the black sea and the mediterranean and to be responsible for preventing environmental disasters linked to oil exploration.
- i voted in favour of the resolution on 'eu action on oil exploration and extraction in europe', as i considered it necessary to strengthen safety and working conditions on offshore oil platforms in the european union in order to prevent environmental disasters such as those in the gulf of mexico.
− the deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico was a wake-up call for the eu and its member states to urgently examine all aspects of oil exploration and extraction in the european union and to take all necessary measures to ensure that such an environmental catastrophe does not occur in our waters.
i would stress the request for a report from the commission assessing the level of environmental pollution and the biological state of the gulf of mexico, and for a review of the eu's ability to respond immediately to accidents involving offshore installations, and for the development of a european action plan in cooperation with the member states.
the resolution is generally positive, warning of the need to prevent and ensure the necessary support in the event of environmental disasters caused by oil spills.
ensuring the independence and quality of environmental impact assessments and accountability assessments is an important aspect of ensuring a high level of protection of human health and the environment, preventing potentially hazardous activities on the seabed from causing damage to the marine and coastal environment, ensuring the protection of biodiversity and ensuring that coastal populations can thrive in their local farming and fishing activities.
we cannot, however, fail to criticize the fact that in a resolution on this subject the problem of the physical limits of oil reserves, the very high and worrying dependence of mankind on this primary source of energy, the need for a fair and careful management of existing reserves and the need to look for alternative sources of energy supply are completely forgotten.
- the various accidents in the field of oil exploration and extraction over the years have been warning of the dangers of this activity, but it was the recent and very serious accident in the gulf of mexico that forced new and different measures to be taken to avoid similar situations in the future, since they threaten the environmental balance and biodiversity of entire regions with the damage, for everyone, that ensues.
the eu must therefore take the necessary measures to ensure that oil exploration and extraction in europe is carried out in the best possible safety conditions, thus avoiding future environmental and human catastrophes.
- i voted in favour of this resolution, following the debate with the council and the commission, where we discussed the european union's plans and main strategic objectives to halt the loss of biodiversity, on the eve of the conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity.
i therefore hope that a strong and coherent position from the european union will be brought to this conference with ideas on the concrete measures that will be taken to ensure that the protection of biodiversity contributes to sustainable development.
i remind you that conservation of biodiversity is fundamental to the quality of ecosystems, has direct effects on essential functions such as food production or water availability, prevents landslides and floods.
i would also like the political responses to ensure the integration of biodiversity into activities in economic sectors such as agriculture, the forestry sector, the fisheries sector and the tourism sector to have the courage and the ambition to protect this invaluable but extremely fragile heritage, as is the case in my region, the azores, from other blind external interests that may threaten it.
− in the year 2010, proclaimed by the united nations as the international year of biodiversity, and in the face of the failure to meet the global target of significantly reducing the rate of biodiversity loss by 2010 and the european target of halting biodiversity loss, the resolution on the eu's strategic objectives for cop 10 of the convention on biological diversity in nagoya is of particular importance.
the preservation of biodiversity, as well as the sustainable use and equitable sharing of benefits arising from genetic resources, should continue to be advocated, which i believe is reflected in this resolution.
finally, i believe it is essential to integrate the environmental factor into relations between the commission and the member states with third countries, stressing the importance of pursuing an integrated approach and an ecological diplomacy.
the complexity of biodiversity conservation requires multiple mechanisms, solutions and efforts.
i therefore believe that the promotion of synergies between the various world organizations, member states and ngos will make it possible to develop instruments for safeguarding biodiversity within the framework of environmental conservation policies, maximising this objective.
finally, i would like to stress the need to signal to the market the economic benefits of its intervention in the preservation of biodiversity, as well as the inclusion of environmental issues in the agenda of the member states and the commission in its relations with third countries, also known as ecological diplomacy.
- as i have already had the opportunity to say about the report by mrs esther de lange, voted at the last plenary session, 'i agree (...) with the need for the eu as a whole, and paying particular attention to all the areas covered by community policies, to find a sustainable strategy for the protection of biodiversity and the preservation of ecosystems.
i believe that this is particularly relevant in the area of agriculture and fisheries, which is why i am following the reforms being prepared in the cfp and the cap with particular attention, since the proper and sustainable preservation of biodiversity, while essential and desirable, cannot be a brake on the sustainability and development of agricultural and fisheries activities.'
the united nations has proclaimed 2010 as the international year of biodiversity.
unfortunately, the eu will not meet its biodiversity target for 2010. the loss of biodiversity is continuing at an alarming rate.
the rate of loss is estimated to accelerate to a value ten times higher by 2050. this loss of biodiversity is unacceptable, not only from an ethical point of view but also from an ecological and economic perspective, since we are depriving future generations of enjoying the benefits of a healthy biodiversity.
we support the concern expressed about the failure to meet eu and global targets for a significant reduction in the rate of biodiversity loss.
but we cannot but reject and strongly criticise the intention to move towards new forms of private appropriation of nature and its resources, such as the introduction of forms of 'payment for ecosystem services' - which is more than once advocated in the resolution.
the report also mentions the ambiguous and unclear aspects, such as the call for 'the values of biodiversity and the opportunities arising from its preservation and sustainable use to be integrated into national accounts'.
- the rapid rate of man-made biodiversity loss is worrying.
biodiversity should be seen as the most reliable barometer of the state of the environment.
the eu is therefore faced with alarming figures of biodiversity loss, with 42% of mammals, 43% of birds, 45% of butterflies, 30% of amphibians, 45% of reptiles and 52% of freshwater fish threatened with extinction, and i consider the legislation now in place on the protection of biodiversity, and even its reinforcement, to be fundamental and essential.
so, with regard to biodiversity, we have to be ambitious to achieve the strategic objectives for 2020. hence my vote.
− biodiversity is a rich heritage that we have received from past generations and that we have a duty to pass on to future generations.
today, one in five species is threatened with extinction, a frightening figure which requires us to take proportionate action to defend and protect biodiversity.
in this context, i welcome this resolution which is aimed at promoting the effective and decisive implementation of the previously set target for 2010 of a significant reduction in the rate of biodiversity loss and which systematises the different aspects of urgent action to protect biodiversity by setting new targets for 2020.
in writing.
countercyclical regulation requires harmonised criteria to ensure comprehensive and scrupulous oversight of financial markets and the market environment by supervisors, including, inter alia, the exchange of all information, the synchronisation of regulatory measures and the real-time monitoring of exposures and risks, including the requirement for audit trails on all financial market transactions.
- the basle committee and the commission should clarify the treatment of reciprocal participation arrangements; - there should be a thorough study of capital instruments as they stand before and after the crisis in order to assess their relevance in a future crisis situation; - high quality liquidity standards are an essential element of the crisis response; - the criteria for high-quality liquid assets should be defined; - the commission should include all euro area sovereign debt in the high-quality liquid asset category irrespective of its specific rating; - the future european banking authority should play a leading role in the definition and implementation of measures on capital requirements and countercyclical capital buffer rules; - countercyclical regulation requires harmonised criteria to ensure comprehensive and scrupulous monitoring of financial markets and the market environment by supervisory authorities.
the importance of supporting the development of sustainable mutual models, based on solidarity north-south solidarity and between its members but aiming at their autonomy and self-financing in the long term, should be underlined.
for example, energy is on the agenda of all european leaders, and yet we invest in scientific research in the field of energy four times less than we did in the 1980s.
− since its foundation, the union has promoted peace and prosperity as core values, an area of freedom and security, a single market and fostered social, economic and territorial cohesion through sustainable development.
the adverse global environment has also refocused the union's priorities on addressing specific or temporary problems which need to be solved but which cannot distract from the principles underlying the union's regional policy.
− i voted in favour of the resolution on eu cohesion policy and regional policy after 2013. the implementation of cohesion policy, which contributes to stable and sustainable economic growth and job creation in the european union, is indispensable for the success of the europe 2020 strategy.
this policy has proved to be essential to the process of european integration in the quest for modernisation and sustainable growth.
the current accumulation of short and long-term challenges facing the european union has led to the adoption of the europe 2020 strategy in order to create a favourable framework for stable and sustainable economic growth and job creation in europe.
this is an area that facilitates the pursuit of modernization and sustainable growth and shows some solidarity.
for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, training and vocational qualification, as well as innovation and the dynamism of smes, are now particularly important.
priority must be given to economic and social cohesion and the defence of human rights, which implies at least a balance between economic, employment, social and environmental policies and a fair redistribution of wealth and income.
the possibility of optimised combination of different modes of transport in the same transport chain, contributing to a modernisation and rationalisation of the logistics of freight transport and promoting its sustainability.
in the interests of sustainable, smart and inclusive growth, too, a strategy is needed to ensure that the resources available to the member states and european citizens are used more efficiently and profitably, as is the case with the european globalisation adjustment fund, where just over 10% of the budgetary allocation of eur 500 million has been used this year, which is unacceptable in view of the scale of unemployment in europe and the increased difficulties in restoring employment.
it is essential that it is in line with the objectives of the common fisheries policy and that it contributes to sustainable development.
− the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is essential to ensure the sustainability of fisheries resources and to ensure greater fairness and equity in the distribution of wealth.
as with the other transpositions of the rfp recommendations into community fisheries law, this one also aims to introduce tighter controls in the fight against illegal fishing, to eliminate any legal loopholes and to uphold the basic principle of the cfp of sustainable fishing inside and outside community waters.
− in view of the importance of this convention in contributing to the consultation, cooperation and optimum use, rational management and conservation of fisheries resources in the north-west atlantic area, and in promoting international collaboration to improve the sustainable management of marine resources on the basis of scientific research, the amendment presented is considered essential, which completely reformulates the convention with the aim of aligning it with other regional conventions and international instruments and incorporating modern fisheries management concepts.
− the northwest atlantic fisheries organisation (nafo) has as its main objective to contribute, on the basis of cooperation between states, to the sustainable management and conservation of fishery resources in the nafo convention area.
that is why, among the various proposals we have put forward, we have proposed the creation of a european programme for employment and sustainable development covering 1% of the european union's gdp, to be supplemented by the member states' own resources, with a view to achieving real convergence, promoting the potential of each country, the sustainable use of its resources, and focusing on producing and creating jobs with rights.
it is essential that the eu has a budget for the implementation of the priority areas and the new competences conferred by the treaty, such as energy, space and foreign policy.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that we have identified the political challenges we face: globalisation, combating climate change, an ageing population, energy security, and so on.
the union must emerge from the crisis in a sustainable way, ensuring solid growth and responsible budgets, but also employment objectives.
this role is key to strengthening parliament's democratic powers, especially during the negotiation of major international conferences such as the united nations climate change conferences.
what is needed, starting from the necessary strengthening of the community budget - on the basis of contributions from the member states in proportion to their gni - is a break with these policies and a genuine commitment to cohesion, social progress and the preservation of the environment.
− the entry into force of the tfeu has strengthened eu policies and created new areas of competence, including common foreign and security policy, competitiveness and innovation, space, tourism, the fight against climate change, social policy, energy policy, justice and home affairs.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
it is, however, a project which is difficult to implement and which may perversely aggravate discrimination against women in the world of employment because: (1) it places additional pressure on social security systems which, in many cases, are already on the verge of sustainability; the new system of wage-setting is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women, and (2) it introduces new constraints on the labour market, which no longer meets the needs of the current working population.
− i voted in favour of this report because i agree that the commission should take responsibility for ensuring the monitoring and funding of projects in the following areas: new investment in renewable energy research, development and deployment, energy efficiency, in particular in the european building stock, and more generally in the efficient use of resources; strengthening the european energy network by interconnecting national networks and distributing energy from large renewable energy production plants to consumers, as well as using new forms of energy storage and the european high voltage dc super grid (hvdc); promoting eu space infrastructures in the field of radionavigation and earth observation, with a view to fostering the provision of new eu services and the development of innovative applications, as well as facilitating the implementation of eu digital legislation and policies; providing fast internet access throughout the union, ensuring free access and fast implementation of the eu agenda and providing all citizens with safe and secure access.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
- i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the commission should ensure the monitoring and funding of projects in the following areas: (1) research, development and deployment of renewable energy; (2) strengthening the european energy grid as well as the use of new forms of energy storage and the european high voltage direct current supernet (hvdc); (3) promotion of eu space infrastructures in the field of radio navigation and earth observation; (4) provision of fast internet access; (5) expansion of eu leadership in the field of cyber-health; (6) realisation of electric mobility and development of common standards for it.
- i voted in favour of this report because i agree that the commission should take responsibility for ensuring the monitoring and funding of projects, in particular in the areas of new investment in research, development and deployment of renewable energy and also the provision of fast internet access throughout the union, ensuring the swift implementation of the eu's digital agenda.
i support the need for economic governance mechanisms, in particular through the coordination and supervision of national policies with a view to the sustainability of public finances.
noting that the eu faces fierce competition from emerging economies and that stability of public finances is vital to consolidate opportunities, boost innovation and stimulate economic growth, which are key elements of a european knowledge society; given that economic growth and the sustainability of public finances are prerequisites for the eu's economic and social stability and for long-term fiscal consolidation, the current rules of the stability and growth pact, together with their poor implementation, have proven insufficient to ensure sound fiscal and macroeconomic policies.
mr president, mr minister, on 6 july this year the european parliament adopted by a large majority a specific directive on bio-waste.
in this way we can be in line with the european union 2020 strategy, smart growth, sustainable growth, inclusive growth, because we can also have more green jobs.
in this way we will also be able to combat climate change, and with a high-quality compound we will be able to provide better support for our soils and also support for biodiversity, and so i ask whether the council agrees, whether the council is also in favour of a specific directive and what it will do to this end.
pakistani companies have no social costs to their workers, no environmental protection costs, no particular concerns in combating a reality of child labour, no equivalent restrictions on the use of raw materials for public health reasons.
mr president, we have defended and valued the possibility of the existence of origin marking, considering it in all respects as an instrument for the defence of industrial jobs in europe, particularly in small and mediumsized enterprises, an instrument against social and environmental dumping.
mr president, the impact of a large number of sectoral activities and policies on the marine environment, from fisheries to maritime transport, tourism, energy, science and technology and others, calls for an integrated policy which promotes a beneficial interrelation of all these areas within a framework of sustainability of the marine environment and preservation of their ecosystems, because in this interrelation local and regional specificities have a decisive weight and because it is also at this level that the effects of this integrated policy will be expressed.
it is also at this level that the definition of the sea, rather than its mere implementation, must be carried out, involving the coastal communities that interact with, animate and depend on the marine environment, without forgetting the necessary overall vision and the essential articulation and cooperation that arise from the fact that the oceans and seas are interconnected and interdependent.
a comprehensive vision of an integrated maritime policy should include, among other things, the promotion of marine research and development and marine technology and engineering in its various aspects, including shipbuilding the promotion of environmentally more sustainable maritime transport and port infrastructure in the context of its public management, the enhancement of fisheries by ensuring the modernisation of the sector and its environmental sustainability and socioeconomic viability, adequate and autonomous financing that does not draw resources from the european fisheries fund and, finally, the role and special characteristics of the outermost regions.
in addition, we are now living in the so-called period of new uses for the oceans, with the exploitation of their energy, mineral and genetic resources, which, along with fishing and maritime transport, require a holistic approach and concerted action, which mrs meissner has also tried to portray, and for which i warmly congratulate her.
in this context, the protection of the most ecologically sensitive marine biogeographical regions and the promotion of sustainable fishing, with the use of increasingly selective fishing gear, is an imperative for achieving the goals set at the 2002 johannesburg summit.
the european maritime safety agency, based in lisbon, provides support and technical assistance in the development and implementation of community legislation on maritime safety and security and in the area of pollution caused by ships.
in june this year i put in writing to commissioners oettinger, kallas and georgieva the suggestion that the european maritime agency's powers should be extended to create mechanisms for monitoring the safety of european oil platforms in the north sea, the black sea and the mediterranean and to be responsible for preventing environmental disasters linked to oil exploration.
i welcome the commissioners' response, which has shown openness to revising the regulation of the european maritime agency, extending its powers to deal with marine pollution incidents.
we can only have fair competition if it works with clear rules for producers, exporters and importers, taking account of common social and environmental considerations.
in this sense, the implementation of the european standardisation system (ess), which must be emancipated, has been fundamental to the completion of the single market, in particular through its ability to respond to the growing need for standards capable of guaranteeing product safety for consumers, ease of access, environmental protection or innovation.
it has played a key role in responding to the growing need in european policy and legislation for standards that ensure product safety, ease of access, innovation, interoperability and environmental protection.
however, european standardisation to meet the future needs of businesses and consumers and to realise its full potential benefits for public and social objectives must adapt to the challenges posed by globalisation, climate change, the emergence of new economic powers and technological developments.
− the standardisation process plays a significant role in ensuring the quality of public or private products and services, as well as compliance with safety, environmental and social responsibility standards.
i therefore consider the strengthening of the integrated maritime policy to be very important in order to promote economic growth and the creation of new sustainable jobs in maritime regions, to protect marine ecosystems and, in particular, to encourage the exchange of best practices.
the european maritime safety agency, based in lisbon, provides support and technical assistance in the development and implementation of community legislation on maritime safety and security and in the area of pollution caused by ships.
in june this year i put in writing to commissioners oettinger, kallas and georgieva the suggestion that the european maritime agency's powers should be extended to create mechanisms for monitoring the safety of european oil platforms in the north sea, the black sea and the mediterranean and to be responsible for preventing environmental disasters linked to oil exploration.
i welcome the commissioners' response, which has shown an openness to revising the regulation of the european maritime agency, extending its powers to deal with incidents of marine pollution.
- i voted in favour of the report on an integrated maritime policy because i believe that it should promote greater coherence between the various policy sectors, so that the potential of the seas and the maritime sector can be used in an ecological, economically sustainable and effective way.
it is also as a portuguese, a people who have always turned to the sea and found prosperity and wealth in it, that i consider it essential that europe has a maritime policy that allows it to take advantage of all the potential that the sea has, as an economic and energy resource, as a creator of jobs and wealth and as a driver of competitiveness and innovation.
i would particularly like to stress the concern about environmental disasters at sea - i am reminded of the prestige case which occurred just off the northern coast of portugal - and the need for stricter rules to prevent them in european seas.
− the sea provides important trade routes, acts as a climate regulator and is a source of food, energy and resources.
i therefore advocate an ambitious blue growth strategy, and for this the commission should present a global and cross-sectoral strategy, based on a broad research of policy options and potential and a broad consultation of stakeholders, for sustainable growth in coastal regions and maritime sectors by 2012.
in writing.
we reject the proposal to introduce market economy instruments such as emissions trading schemes in the maritime sector - mechanisms which, even without applying to the maritime sector, have already proven ineffective in achieving the environmental objectives they claim to pursue.
but we recognize the positive aspects it contains, such as: the proposal to include in international forums and agreements the improvement of working conditions at sea, the safety and environmental performance of ships; the proposal to implement the ilo maritime labour convention in community law; the enhancement of maritime freight transport; the preservation of small and secondary ports; the expansion of the short sea transport network; the importance attached to improving links to the outermost regions.
despite these figures and the enormous potential that still remains to be exploited, there is no integrated european maritime policy which would allow us to avoid treating separately the policies pursued in the fields of maritime transport, the maritime economy, new technologies, coastal regions, offshore energy, fisheries, surveillance and maintenance of law and order at sea, tourism, protection of the marine environment and marine research.
- to date, policies in the fields of maritime transport, the maritime economy, new technologies, coastal regions, offshore energy, fisheries, maritime surveillance, tourism, protection of the marine environment and marine research have evolved separately.
european trade policy must also play an important role in achieving the millennium development goals, as well as international commitments related to human rights, food security and environmental sustainability.
it is therefore necessary to mobilise resources and technical assistance to identify and finance programmes that provide local and regional production opportunities and sustainable access to global markets for excluded communities and small and medium-sized enterprises.
we call for clear guidelines on how best to work together to promote political stability, combat climate change, manage migration flows and prevent natural disasters.
i think that there will only be sustainable innovation if there are rigorous, sustainable, demanding public policies; if we do not, it is a match that goes out, little is left and little response we have to give to these populations.
we are looking at an integrated strategy to make the european innovation ecosystem more efficient and profitable in the service of a sustainable economy.
this should be achieved by implementing smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in line with the eu 2020 strategy.
we are discussing a very specific programme to help economic recovery and, in this case, in a central area which is the energy sector.
we are in a period when we are debating and will continue to debate a whole series of legislative proposals in the field of energy, and we often tend to focus too much on what are the big projects, what are the big networks, and forget other causes of intervention where it is absolutely essential to intervene.
and that is why i think this report can help us to invest not only in energy efficiency and renewable energy, which is very important, but also in bringing tangible benefits to local people, which naturally translates into tangible benefits for the european population as a whole.
and that is why i want to end, madam president, with two final notes: i would like to say that the commission is very pleased that the council has taken the initiative of adopting the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the european union and taiwan maintain economic and trade relations and cooperate in the fields of research, science, technology, education and the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
− it is considered essential that this support be applied to energy projects, especially in a time of crisis, stimulating the european economy by creating new jobs.
the ep's request to include support for projects in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy is relevant, as it has to some extent forced a shift from a logic of essentially cross-border projects to a logic at regional level, which will have a wider impact throughout europe.
it should be remembered that one of the main problems for regional smes to invest in renewable energy projects is due to the costs of the initial investments required, which is mentioned in this same regulation, and the introduction of technical support in the implementation of projects is commendable.
as regards scope, the support provided for decentralised renewable energy projects in local environments and their integration into electricity grids is also considered necessary.
− the development of alternative renewable energy sources and the promotion of energy efficiency contribute to 'green' growth, a competitive and sustainable economy and the fight against climate change.
by supporting these policies, the union will create new jobs and opportunities in a 'green' market, thus fostering the development of a competitive, secure and sustainable economy.
it is essential to increase public funding for energy saving, energy efficiency and renewable energy projects.
europe must also create the conditions for more private investment in scientific research, technological development and demonstration in the field of energy.
i also call for the 8th framework programme for research and technological development to give priority to energy security, the fight against climate change and the environment.
- i vote in favour of the proposals for a relaunch of the european economy through increased financial support for energy projects presented in this report.
i welcome the proposal to channel unused appropriations from the european energy recovery plan (eerp) to a new instrument to support energy efficiency and renewable energy projects.
through financial incentives, these projects could contribute not only to the relaunch of the european economy but also to strengthening the security of energy supply and reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the eu.
- i voted in favour of this report in favour of including measures to support projects in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy in the european energy recovery programme.
the financing of projects in this area will stimulate economic recovery, create employment opportunities and facilitate the fight against climate change and could become an important means of responding to the financial crisis.
the european union's energy dependence is well known and the way in which the member states are trying to cope with it is known, through the diversification of energy production methods and the focus on renewable energies.
a programme of community financial support for energy to stimulate the economy could be a way of reversing the recent trend and resuming initiatives aimed at greater energy self-sufficiency in the member states.
this sector has the potential not only to protect the environment but also to create more jobs in a europe that is less dependent on the outside world.
i hope that the programme will bear good fruit and that it will serve what it was created for and avoid red tape and waste.
− this is an amendment to the regulation establishing the european energy programme for economic recovery (eepr), which provided for the allocation of eur 3.98 billion for 2009 and 2010. it is noted that this amount has not been used and the instrument of the sustainable energy financing initiative, proposed by the commission to use the remaining funds, is now being set up.
the unused money (eur 146 million) will be channelled into this new financial instrument, which will go towards sustainable energy projects, especially in urban areas, covering, inter alia: - public and private buildings incorporating renewable energy and/or energy efficiency solutions; - investments in combined heat and power generation, including micro-generation, and in energy-efficient district heating/cooling networks, in particular from renewable energy sources; - decentralised renewable energy sources integrated into local environments and their integration into electricity networks; - micro-generation from renewable energy sources; - clean urban transport to support greater energy efficiency and the integration of renewable energy sources, with particular emphasis on public transport, electric vehicles and hydrogen and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions; - local infrastructure, including efficient outdoor lighting of public infrastructure.
− improving energy efficiency and security are among the eu's top priorities.
the commission has also been active in promoting the use of surplus funds to support energy efficiency and renewable energy projects in the european energy recovery programme, especially in the context of a financial crisis.
- i voted in favour of this report because i welcome the fact that the funds not used under the european energy recovery programme are being used to create a specific financial instrument to support initiatives in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy.
in fact, the financing of such projects, in full compliance with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, makes a decisive contribution to the development of a sustainable economy, to combating climate change and to promoting employment, and is a particularly appropriate measure in the context of the economic and financial crisis in which we find ourselves.
− the focus on energy efficiency and security is one of the european union's current priorities.
i welcome the initiative to use the unused €114 million allocated to the energy sector under the european economic recovery programme to support energy efficiency and renewable energy initiatives in the spirit of eu2020, with the aim of new investment projects contributing to job creation and increased competitiveness in the sector.
in the face of the major global challenges we face, such as the fight against climate change, the achievement of the millennium development goals, the middle east peace process, the specific situations in afghanistan and iraq and the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, joint action is needed, based on the intensification of strategic dialogue and cooperation between the eu and the us within the framework of existing multilateral institutions, in particular the united nations, the osce and nato, in order to contribute to the creation of solutions.
i also agree with the call for cooperation in the context of the transatlantic economic council (tec) on all matters affecting the regulatory environment of industries, especially smes, and for the approach of the eu's small business act to be followed when considering legislation with a transatlantic impact.
the eu has also been active in the fight against climate change, and the eu has been active in the fight against climate change.
this is why i consider it paramount that innovation has been placed at the heart of strategy 2020. innovation is our best way of tackling the major social challenges we face, such as climate change, energy and resource scarcity, or health and ageing, and the answers to these are crucial to a fair, economically, socially and environmentally sustainable europe.
- i voted in favour of this resolution because i consider that innovation partnerships are, in the present context, an important instrument in building an economically, socially and environmentally sustainable europe, and i also welcome the choice of the theme for the first partnership - active and healthy ageing.
- i voted in favour of this resolution for advocating the intensification of osce efforts to mitigate human contributions to global warming.
more effective cooperation between osce states in combating threats and difficulties caused by economic and environmental factors can make an essential contribution to security, stability, democracy and prosperity in the region, as there are economic and environmental factors underlying the conflicts themselves.
whether security in its most traditional sense (in the concept of defence) is economic security, environmental security, security of energy supply or security of transport.
the osce is a mirror of this, as it is an integral part of the euro-atlantic and euro-asian security architecture, which is characterised by a comprehensive concept of security, including the political-military, economic, environmental and human dimensions.
urgent decisions are needed, especially at a time when the supply of jobs for the youngest and the sustainability of pension systems for the oldest are being called into question.
- i voted in favour of this report because i believe that research makes a fundamental contribution to economic growth, job creation and environmental sustainability.
we must not forget that research makes a fundamental contribution to economic growth, job creation and sustainable energy that is compatible with the environment.
in this context i voted in favour of this resolution as a strong call for attention to this sector and in the conviction that the action now undertaken can indeed contribute to the sustainability and development of the sector.
- i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is curious to draw attention to the current crisis in the livestock sector and its consequences, and i hope that the necessary measures will be taken to ensure the sustainability and development of this sector.
don't you think it's time we paid some attention to social sustainability?
do they not think that it is time to change policies and give full priority to social sustainability, to create solidarity mechanisms, namely... (the president cut the speaker off)
the rapporteur.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of exotic species is one of the main elements of disruption of ecosystems and one of the main causes of loss of biodiversity worldwide.
the amendment proposed by the commission to the regulation on the use of exotic and locally absent species in aquaculture is based on the results of a research project involving several european institutions, the impasse project, a concerted action on the environmental impacts of exotic species in aquaculture.
allow me to add one additional consideration: the sustainable development of aquaculture requires strong support for scientific research and technological development in the area of native species farming, allowing for diversification of production and food supply and an increase in its quality, while also ensuring greater environmental safety.
the potential of aquaculture must be exploited, but its limitations must also be overcome in an environmentally sustainable way.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the gallagher report and, in particular, the multiannual management plan for the carp stock, it is essential to defend the amendment proposed by the ppe, and which was made by mrs patrão neves in particular, in view of the three objectives of the green paper and the reform of the common fisheries policy: the environmental objective, which is perfectly respected in the report, and the economic and social objectives, both economic profitability and decent living for the professionals.
this is because, as has also been pointed out here, the rational management of stocks must take account of the natural environmental and biological aspects, but also the economic and social aspects.
climate change is expected to worsen the situation and there will be an increase in natural disasters with severe damage in terms of human losses, environmental degradation and reduced economic activity.
other disasters have not led to calls for the mobilisation of the fund, although their impact on the affected populations, the environment and the economy has been considerable and in many cases lasting.
in the face of all the requests for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, it is important to ascertain how workers will be reoriented and to what extent new jobs and incentives to create one's own job are sustainable or run the same risks as those that have been lost.
however, the budget used has been below this amount, having decreased since 2003. in addition, a large number of distilleries have already made efforts to prepare their entry into the free market by setting up cooperatives, investing in more energy-efficient equipment and increasingly marketing their alcohol directly.
i congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent report, in which he presents as essential the fourth revision (pharma iv) launched in 2009 to keep pace with the rapidly changing product environment in the pharmaceutical industry.
this addition of products is necessary to respond to the rapidly evolving product environment in the pharmaceutical industry.
− given the importance of science and technology for the development of europe and japan, and the fact that both face similar challenges in terms of economic growth, industrial competitiveness, employment, sustainable development and climate change, both the eu and japan have expressed a willingness to improve and intensify their cooperation in areas of common interest, such as science and technology.
− the eu and japan face common challenges in economic growth, industrial competitiveness, employment, social and regional cohesion, sustainable development and, perhaps most importantly, the need to adapt their economies to ageing societies and the current financial crisis.
they also have similar research priorities, such as life sciences and communication, and this agreement will serve to deepen cooperation in areas of common interest, such as life sciences, information and communication technologies, and environmental technologies linked to climate change and renewable energy.
− europe and japan face common challenges in economic growth and sustainable development and therefore welcome the conclusion of this agreement, which will allow for deeper cooperation in the field of scientific and technological activities, with significant benefits for both parties.
- i voted in favour of this resolution as it goes along with the resolution adopted on 25 february by the european parliament and the green paper on the reform of the common fisheries policy as regards the need for regional cooperation and sustainability outside european union waters.
it should also be noted that this agreement will provide a guaranteed income for the solomon islands, the amount of which will be used to support the implementation of its national fisheries policy, contributing to the principle of sustainability and good management of fisheries resources.
in this context, i voted in favour of the report on the 'fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the solomon islands', as i consider that it is in line with the aim of promoting responsible and sustainable fishing, serving the legitimate interests of both parties.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful organisms.
in the agreements with african and pacific countries, part of the eu financial contribution is intended to support national fisheries policies based on the principle of sustainability.
i welcome the commission's intention to launch a green paper on the revision of the vat system with the aim of creating a more business-friendly environment and a simpler and more robust system for the member states.
as regards the amendments tabled by parliament, i think it is particularly relevant that the new vat strategy should aim to reduce the administrative burden, remove tax obstacles and improve the business environment, particularly for small and mediumsized enterprises and labour-intensive enterprises, while ensuring the robustness of the system against fraud.
the rapporteur took the opportunity to make some suggestions to the council, notably on the new vat strategy, which he said should aim to remove tax obstacles and improve the business environment, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises and labour-intensive businesses, while ensuring the robustness of the system against fraud.
the new vat strategy should aim to reduce the administrative burden, remove tax obstacles and improve the business environment, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises and labour-intensive enterprises, while ensuring the robustness of the system against fraud.
as regards the vat system, it should be recognized, in line with the rapporteur's assertions, that it must be subject to a comprehensive reform in order to actively promote the objectives of the internal market, contributing to the creation of a more favourable environment for enterprises, especially smes.
this report, which i voted in favour of, also draws attention to the fact that the austerity packages adopted by the governments of the member states must not compromise their ability to promote economic recovery, and that it is important to strike a balance between the process of consolidating public accounts and meeting the needs for investment in employment and sustainable development, by using measures and instruments which can give meaning but also a horizon to the sacrifices imposed on citizens.
- i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a long-term plan for the stock of cod in the bay of biscay and the fisheries exploiting that stock, because it should contribute to maintaining biomass stocks at levels which allow their sustainable exploitation, based on scientific advice.
in order to raise the stock of hake in the bay of biscay to a level that allows its sustainable exploitation, it is necessary to provide for long-term management measures to ensure that the exploitation of that stock is compatible with sustainable exploitation, ensuring, as far as possible, the stability of the fishery while maintaining a low risk of discontinuation.
long-term plans are an important instrument for fisheries management, combining the essential conservation of fisheries resources at sustainable levels with the guarantee of medium-term prospects for exploiting those resources, which is essential to give economic and social stability to fishing and the local communities that depend on it.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the establishment of a long-term plan will make it possible to respond to the need to rationalise the exploitation of this resource, ensuring the long-term sustainability of the fishery and at the same time mitigating the risk of the stock of the cod being broken up.
the north sea, the areas west of the british isles, the western channel, the waters west of brittany, the bay of biscay and the north and north-west of spain, with the main objective of ensuring the exploitation of living aquatic resources under economically, environmentally and socially sustainable conditions.
- i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a 'long-term plan for the western stock of carp and the fisheries exploiting that stock' because it helps to ensure the sustainable exploitation of fishery resources in economic, environmental and social terms.
- multiannual plans are important instruments for fisheries management, allowing the combination of the essential conservation of fisheries resources at sustainable levels and the guarantee of medium-term prospects for exploiting these resources, which is essential to give economic and social stability to fishing and the local communities that depend on it.
the specific characteristics of fleets and the destination of fisheries are thus recognized as aspects to be taken into account in the definition of tacs, in the name of a management of fisheries resources which takes account of biological and environmental aspects, but also of economic and social aspects.
in this way, and in accordance with the rules, fish stocks are not depleted and sustainable exploitation of these resources is possible.
− multiannual plans are a key instrument to ensure that exploitation of fisheries resources is environmentally, economically and socially sustainable.
it is desirable to ensure that living aquatic resources are exploited in an economically, environmentally and socially sustainable manner.
- for the european union, and especially for a country like portugal, with a maritime and fishing vocation and a strong fishery and canning industry, it is essential to maintain fishing as a viable and sustainable economic activity.
it should be noted that the baltic sea has been classified as a particularly sensitive maritime zone by the marine environment protection committee of the international maritime organization.
− fisheries must be a sustainable economic activity in the long term, and this can only be achieved through the prudent management of fisheries resources.
the concerns raised by the rapporteur are therefore legitimate and take account of the need to protect species and preserve biodiversity.
- i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is essential to promote sustainable management of marine resources in line with the objectives of preserving the baltic stocks, which are among the most valuable and sensitive ecosystems in the world.
- i agree with the amendment proposals in general, considering that the introduction of exotic species is one of the main problems of disruption of ecosystems, and is, along with the destruction of habitats, one of the main causes of biodiversity loss worldwide, as recognised by the commission.
- i voted in favour of the report on the 'use of exotic and locally absent species in aquaculture', as it will make it possible to strengthen the requirements to which closed aquaculture facilities and the transport of species should be subject in order to minimise the impacts on ecosystems and biodiversity.
− the amendment proposed by the commission to this regulation is based on the results of the impasse project - a concerted action on the environmental impacts of exotic species in aquaculture.
the sustainable development of aquaculture requires strong support for scientific research and technological development in the area of native species farming.
these species should be given preference over exotic species, thus allowing for diversification of food production and supply and an increase in food quality, while also ensuring greater environmental safety.
− the introduction of exotic species is one of the main causes of biodiversity loss and disruption of ecosystems on the planet.
i believe, however, that research and development in the cultivation of indigenous species should be strengthened, so as to reduce the risks associated with the introduction of exotic species and promote more sustainable production.
− the introduction of exotic species is one of the main elements of ecosystem disturbance, along with the destruction of natural habitats, and is one of the main causes of biodiversity loss worldwide.
the sustainable development of european aquaculture requires strong support for scientific research and technological development in the area of native species farming, which allows for diversification of production and food supply and an increase in its quality, while also ensuring greater environmental safety.
the reduction of the administrative burden and costs of licence applications is an important incentive for the aquaculture sector and this exemption, provided that it is accompanied by a strict definition of the requirements to be met by closed aquaculture facilities and adequate monitoring of their compliance, does not compromise the indispensable protection of biodiversity and the environment.
− aquaculture of exotic and locally absent species has counter-effects on natural ecosystems, in particular the loss of biodiversity worldwide, which deserve to be safeguarded by the european union.
the impasse project, a concerted action on the environmental impacts of exotic species in aquaculture, has demonstrated the need to prevent the escape of these species and biological material during transport.
the clear and rigorous definition of closed aquaculture facility and a regularly updated list of all facilities by member state will produce a sustainable development of this sector.
the proposal therefore aims to provide member states with a regulatory framework to enable them to deal more effectively with the possible negative effects of the closure of mines, which may occur as a result of the phasing out of subsidies, in particular their social and environmental effects, while minimising distortions of competition in the internal market.
i therefore agree that the closure plan be extended to 31 december 2018 and that the production units be closed definitively if they do not become competitive by that date and provided that the eu's energy needs do not require their existence.
if this change did not occur, the deadline would have been 31 december 2010. now the new proposal from the european commission proposes to extend the support until 2014. however, the european parliament has approved a proposal, which we also voted in favour of, extending support until 2018, which seeks to take account of the problem at both the social level (preventing dismissals of workers and their difficult integration into the labour market) and the environmental level, with the support it advocates for its resolution.
the commitment to safeguarding the maintenance of coal industries which have become competitive in the process is also positive, but it stresses the need to safeguard environmental and public health issues.
the need to rehabilitate former coalmining centres is also stressed, in particular: the removal of mining equipment, work to make the underground zone safe, cleaning up the area and the removal of waste water.
- i voted in favour of this report because, while important environmental issues such as energy sources and climate change are at stake, economic issues such as the retention of non-competitive production units in the economy in a time of economic and social crisis are the social issues that must be defended.
the financing of environmental protection measures and of the costs of long-term mine closures should be continued beyond 2014. a premature cessation of subsidies to the coal industry by member states could cause enormous environmental and financial problems in the regions concerned and could prove even more costly than a gradual elimination of these subsidies.
- i voted in favour of this report because, while important environmental issues such as energy sources and climate change are at stake, economic issues such as the retention of non-competitive production units in the economy in a time of economic and social crisis are the social issues that must be defended.
the commission proposal was to provide the member states with a regulatory framework to allow them to extend the support granted until 31 december 2014, and parliament extended this deadline until 31 december 2008, thus ensuring that the conditions for solving this problem in a sustainable way in social and environmental terms were met.
− the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly met twice in 2009, at which important decisions were adopted on a range of issues, including the food and financial crisis, the situation in somalia, climate change and the situation in madagascar.
among the proclamations of 'smart, sustainable and inclusive growth' are the prevailing trends that are at the root of the severe imbalances within the eu, the real divergence of economies in the eu, the deep crisis and recessionary prospects faced by some member states, unemployment and deep social injustices.
the european union is also committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment, and to the protection of the environment and the environment.
this study focused on two categories of measures: agro-environment and farm modernisation.
i do not understand how it is possible for unrelated production support, which is subject to similar criteria of an essentially environmental nature, such as direct payments, agri-environmental measures or compensatory payments to less-favoured regions, to have different bureaucratic treatment and controls and not be included in a single unified system.
the problem of beekeeping is first and foremost an environmental problem, with consequences that can be catastrophic if we are not able to give it an adequate response in a timely manner.
no livestock activity (and i put livestock in commas, of course) is so closely linked to nature and sustainability and plays such an important and irreplaceable ecological role as beekeeping.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the mortality of bees is increasing and the number of beekeepers is decreasing, a problematic situation for agriculture, for biodiversity, as has been said here, given the enormous implications for food production and for plant species which depend on their pollination.
the life span of a worker bee is very short (about six weeks) and very sensitive to changes in the external environment.
honey production has therefore also been affected, not only by the increasingly uncertain duration and stability of the seasons, but also by the increase in external aggressions that may result from the use of pesticides, mites or other sources, and on which a higher level of research could contribute to better applied responses and a more appropriate reinforcement of measures in favour of biodiversity and the reduction of the effects of climate instability.
we need a european sovereign debt consolidation mechanism, we need a eurobond issue and we need the euro area to be protected in a sustainable way through european and not intergovernmental systems.
the conclusion of the protocol will allow moldova to gradually open up or participate more fully in certain community programmes, as it provides an opportunity to promote further cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific links, as well as the strengthening of political relations through the eastern partnership, as well as the negotiations for a new association agreement.
the work done by the european parliament in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety in improving the proposal originally put forward by the european commission is noteworthy.
- i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (recast), because i believe that the agreement reached with the council is consistent with the objective of contributing to the protection of human health and the environment by simplifying and making existing legislation more coherent.
due to market growth and innovation cycles, waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) is considered to be the fastest growing waste line.
weee is estimated to grow to 12.3 million tonnes in 2020. the aim of the recast of the directive on the restriction of the use of certain dangerous substances (rusp) is to extend its scope and strengthen its preventive part so that, in accordance with article 174 (2) of the treaty, the correction of environmental damage is to be done as a matter of priority at source.
− the volume of sales of electrical and electronic equipment in the eu and the inevitable increase in waste from such equipment lead to the need to replace some of the hazardous substances that constitute them, in order to minimise their impact on the environment and also to ensure the protection of consumers and public health.
− the use of hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment is a major problem for public health, the environment and waste management.
in future, all materials should therefore comply with the provisions of the directive if an environmental assessment deems it necessary.
- the increasing use of electrical and electronic equipment, together with the enormous technological development of the latter, leads to an increasingly shorter life cycle, and poses serious problems with regard to the use of dangerous substances in such equipment, such as difficulties in managing the increasing number of waste.
the purpose of this directive on the restriction of the use of certain dangerous substances (rusp) is therefore to extend its scope and to strengthen its preventive element, so that, in accordance with article 174 (2) of the treaty, the correction of environmental damage is to be carried out as a matter of priority at source.
- my vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (recast) is due to the improvements introduced in the framework of the agreement with the council, which have contributed to major improvements in the protection of public health, the environment and waste management.
with this legislation we are helping to prevent the waste we produce from electrical and electronic equipment such as mobile phones, computers and refrigerators from harming the environment and human health through the introduction of chemicals into the environment, either through landfills or by the release of toxic gases in incineration.
the first step in this reformulation is to extend the scope of the directive in order to contribute to the protection of human health and the environmentally sound recovery and disposal of waste electrical and electronic equipment.
the energy sector is the main engine of economic growth.
since 2008, europe has had a strategy for energy and climate change.
implementing this strategy is essential, but the treaty of lisbon allows us to go further, paving the way for the creation of a true energy community in europe.
we need to deepen the internal energy market, build and interconnect networks, ensure energy security and solidarity and put the consumer at the centre of our concerns.
there is an urgent need to increase funding and develop means and programmes to encourage energy efficiency.
in this connection, i welcome the launch of several european industrial initiatives under the european strategic plan for energy technologies and call on the commission to implement the remaining measures of this plan.
the 8th framework programme should also give priority to research and development of innovative technologies in the field of energy.
it is therefore essential that there is adequate funding to support clean and sustainable technologies.
i consider this new energy strategy to be imperative to achieving a competitive, sustainable and secure strategy.
at a time when europe is increasingly dependent on imported energy, i believe it is essential that it continues to play its leading role in energy issues by focusing on innovation and technology.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organisation of the market in raw materials and the common organisation of the market in natural gas is a welcome step towards the creation of a single market in the energy sector.
i come from an ultraperipheral region which already has an energy autonomy of some 27% and which is projected to reach 75% by 2012. the azores have more ambitious specific targets than the eu, with results already recognised at european level, notably in geothermal energy, through an ambitious energy policy of partnerships between the region and the best national and international research centres.
this report seeks to contribute to a new energy action plan under the europe 2020 strategy.
the following are some of the strategic shortcomings of european energy policy which should be taken into account: energy policy has been positioned as an appendage to environmental policy, the ultimate aim of which is to open up new fields for financial speculation by making greenhouse gas emission allowances profitable.
but the energy problem calls for a specific approach based on improving specific indicators such as energy intensity or the energy deficit.
in the energy sector too, it is assumed that by implementing the functioning of markets, where private investors operate, everything will be solved as if by magic.
three successive packages of legislation have gone, public resources have been alienated and we have no competitive markets, no investment in infrastructure, no more affordable energy for consumers.
the argument that biofuels only have environmental advantages and would bring major agricultural and industrial development to european countries has been debunked.
it was said that cancún is expected to be a significant intermediate step in the fight against climate change, just as it was also said that we cannot go any further or be any more ambitious than we were in copenhagen and accept what we had as a result of the copenhagen summit.
i believe that responding to the environmental crisis is also responding to the economic and social crisis we are experiencing today in a way that is solidarity-based and fair.
so expectations are low, but nevertheless, cop 16 should be seen as an opportunity to restore confidence in the multilateral process on climate change and consolidate the copenhagen accord.
regardless of the outcome of the international negotiations, the european union must pursue the objective of reducing co2 emissions by more than 20% in order to create green jobs and economic growth.
the success of the cancun climate conference is fundamental to the credibility of the negotiating process within the united nations.
in the event of no global agreement, there should still be an openness on the part of europe to consider a second commitment period to the kyoto protocol, but with conditions, notably on the environmental integrity of the protocol, the redesign of the clean development mechanism and the commitments of the world's major emitters such as china and the united states.
commissioner, it is in the irrationality of this economic and social system that we find the causes of climate change.
for the climate summit in cancun starting next monday, i am in favour of a binding agreement with an international sanctions regime.
the eu has been a leader in the fight against climate change, and it should be encouraged to strengthen that leadership, but without forgetting the tremendous efforts our industries are already making to meet mandatory emission reductions in the european space.
it is noted that the eu contributes 15% to global emissions, estimated to fall to 10% in 2030, while the us, china and india contribute half of the global emissions with a tendency to increase.
i cannot therefore agree that the eu should limit itself to 30% of co2 emissions instead of the 20% target, if this is not properly accompanied by other countries, in particular the united states.
on the contrary, i believe that even if others do not follow, we must continue to invest in scientific research, in technological innovation in decarbonised energy, in energy efficiency and in the creation of green jobs in order to increase our competitiveness.
the objectives set were put into practice by the adoption of the 'africa-eu joint strategy' and the 2008-2010 action plan which identifies eight priority areas: • peace and security • democratic governance and human rights • trade, regional integration and infrastructure • millennium development goals • energy • climate change • migration, mobility and employment • science, information society and space.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks of chemical pollution caused by the use of certain dangerous substances.
− the inclusion of the human rights clause or the application of social and environmental standards in trade negotiations should be a principle to be safeguarded by the eu.
i therefore support the eu's aim of lobbying within international organisations (including the wto and the ilo) or advocating the creation of a new environmental organisation to promote fair trade.
if europe has to respect strict social and environmental standards, the same level of standards must be required of its partners, but this is possible if we take account of the progress made in the free trade agreements.
- i believe that social and environmental standards are not incompatible with the commercial interests of the european union and its partners.
strengthen cooperation between international organisations in the framework of a global climate agreement, including on carbon mechanisms complementary to the community's emissions trading system, while ensuring that existing gaps are closed.
i support the eu should also lead efforts towards the use of bilateral free trade, so as to include not only human rights terms but also sustainable development issues.
− i recognise the complexity of the discussion on the inclusion of human rights and social and environmental clauses in trade agreements and am mindful of the imbalance between international trade rules and other rules of international law.
- i voted in favour of the report on 'human rights, social and environmental standards in international trade agreements', because trade policy must be consistent with the eu's objectives and must contribute to safeguarding its social model and environmental policy.
as such, it is of the utmost importance that the eu ensures that certain social and environmental standards are applied in international trade agreements.
the main energy suppliers in europe are: that said, i would reiterate the importance of continuing to fight for human rights and making them a condition for the establishment of sound trade relations.
− the inclusion of the human rights clause or the application of social and environmental standards in trade negotiations are complex issues that divide the international community.
on the one hand, the nordic countries denounce the social and environmental dumping practiced by the emerging countries, which distorts competition in trade; on the other hand, the countries of the south are suspicious that the countries of the north intend to impede their economic development and resort, by applying these rules, to a form of disguised protectionism.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that trade policy must function as an instrument in the service of the overall objectives of the european union and it is therefore important that trade is not seen as an end in itself but as a tool for promoting european trade interests and also fair trade, capable of generalising the inclusion and effective implementation of social and environmental standards with all the eu's trading partners.
− eu countries and all their economic actors are scrupulously committed to respecting human rights and social and environmental standards, and it is only natural that their trading partners should be required to do the same in the wto, if world trade is to become fairer and more equitable.
however, the eu must continue to make an effort to make this happen, and it is therefore up to the eu and the european parliament to make every effort to defend respect for human life, that fair work is equal anywhere in the world and for everyone, and that the meaning of environmental and social rights (trade union rights, the fight against child labour, etc.)
- i voted in favour of the report on human rights and social and environmental standards in international trade agreements, as i agree with the inclusion of human rights clauses or the application of social and environmental standards in trade negotiations.
the tension between the countries of the north, which denounce social and environmental dumping by the emerging countries, and the countries of the south, which suspect that the countries of the north intend to impede their economic development and resort, by applying these rules, to a form of disguised protectionism, is a reality.
however, this conflict of interest cannot block a positive, but also legally binding, approach by the eu in its negotiations, with the inclusion of provisions on sustainable development, in particular in bilateral agreements.
− the ombudsman's special report follows the commission's refusal to disclose to an environmental protection ngo three letters (part of a set of 18) sent by porsche ag to commissioner günter verheugen concerning the exchange of information between the commission and car manufacturers on a possible approach to be taken on carbon dioxide emissions from vehicles.
this is a problematic situation for agriculture and biodiversity, as 76% of food production and 84% of plant species depend on pollination.
i am in favour of a higher level of research, which will help to achieve better responses and a more correct reinforcement of measures to promote biodiversity and reduce the effects of climate instability, because the life of a worker bee is very short and very sensitive to changes in the external environment.
− bees play an important role in the ecological balance and their extinction has serious consequences for the food chain.
the action of bees and beekeeping is fundamental to the maintenance of ecosystems, the ecological balance of flora and the preservation of biodiversity, and economically it is an activity that makes perfect sense for europe to protect and encourage, so as to become less dependent on imports.
− bees are indispensable for the pollination of crops, for the maintenance of the ecological balance and as a preservation element of biodiversity.
given the strategic role of the beekeeping sector in society, taking into account the public and environmental service provided by beekeepers, and given that this activity is a valuable example of 'green employment' (improvement and maintenance of biodiversity, ecological balance and conservation of flora) and a model of sustainable production in rural areas, it is in the interest of all to support the sector so that it can grow sustainably and we become less and less dependent on third countries.
in my country too, this sector must be nurtured so that the benefits of its activity are visible both in economic and environmental terms and so that honey production increases, as it currently amounts to only 1.9% of eu production.
− the beekeeping sector plays a strategic role in society, providing a valuable example of 'green employment' (improving and maintaining biodiversity, ecological balance and conservation of flora) and a model of sustainable production in rural areas.
− i voted in favour of the report on a new energy strategy for europe 2011-2020 because i consider this new energy strategy imperative to achieve a competitive, sustainable and secure strategy.
at a time when europe is increasingly dependent on imported energy, i believe it is essential that europe continues to play its leading role in energy issues by investing in innovation and technology.
i believe that for the energy strategy to be more sustainable, we must continue to focus on renewable energy by introducing greater competition in the sector, so that we can achieve an effective internal energy market which will lead to cost reductions and increased competitiveness of the economy, and also generate wealth and employment, which are important for the balance of trade.
i come from an ultraperipheral region which already has an energy autonomy of some 27% and which is projected to reach 75% by 2012. the azores have more ambitious specific targets than the eu, with results already recognised at european level, notably in geothermal energy, through an ambitious energy policy of partnerships between the region and the best national and international research centres.
- the energy sector is a key driver of economic growth.
since 2008, europe has had a strategy for energy and climate change.
however, the lisbon treaty allows us to go further, paving the way for the creation of a true energy community in europe.
we need to deepen the internal energy market, build and interconnect energy networks and ensure energy security and solidarity and put the consumer at the centre of our concerns.
there is an urgent need to increase funding and develop more means and programmes to encourage energy efficiency.
in this connection, i welcome the launch of the various european industrial initiatives under the european strategic plan for energy technologies and call on the commission to implement the remaining measures of this plan.
the 8th framework programme should give priority to research and development of innovative technologies in the field of energy.
it is therefore essential that there is adequate funding to support clean and sustainable technologies.
- i voted in favour of the report on 'a new energy strategy for europe 2011-2020' because i believe that a new strategic direction for the energy sector is needed to meet the objectives of article 194 of the treaty, the 20-20-20 targets set in the energy and climate package, and the long-term target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 80% to 95% by 2050.
in writing.
− the commission has set three objectives for european energy policy: (i) to move towards a low-carbon energy system; (ii) to ensure security of energy supply; and (iii) to ensure that the union's competitiveness is strengthened and that energy is supplied to all consumers at affordable prices.
i agree with these three objectives in general, but i think there is a fourth and perhaps more important challenge missing here: the reduction of energy dependence, particularly as regards fossil fuels.
in addition, the target of reducing carbon emissions will have to be viewed very carefully in order to minimise the risks of carbon leakage and loss of competitiveness for european industries.
− the commission document 'towards a new energy strategy for europe 2011-2020' is an excellent contribution to an overall eu policy for the energy sector under the eu 2020 strategy.
the lisbon treaty provides a solid legal basis for the development of energy initiatives based on sustainability, security of supply, network interconnection and solidarity.
we can have a new strategy for the energy sector to meet the objectives of article 194 of the treaty and the 20-20-20 targets set in the climate package.
new actions to be taken in the energy sector should aim at moving towards a low-carbon energy system, where the security of energy supply for all is ensured, while ensuring the competitiveness of the union and the supply of energy to all consumers at affordable prices.
the objectives of the lisbon treaty of a single energy market, security of supply, energy efficiency, energy saving, the development of new and renewable forms of energy and the promotion of energy networks must be met.
the european energy strategy advocated in this report - and advocated by the commission in its various communications on the subject - is closely linked to the definition of a community policy described in the lisbon treaty: 'completion of the internal energy market'.
the rapporteur calls for the drawing up of 'plans for the creation of a european energy community', insisting on the application and transposition by the member states of the current internal market directives, while accepting 'as a last resort the possibility of re-introducing the main provisions of the current internal market directives in the form of regulations in order to ensure their direct and full application throughout the single market'.
as we have said, we are totally opposed to this proposal as the energy solution for europe and have therefore voted against the report.
this is a strategic sector for the economy and the functioning of a state, which must be sovereign in defining its energy policies.
in addition, the increasing reliance on imports of primary resources and the consumer price of energy combined with the divestment of energy infrastructure have already revealed the failure of this private market strategy.
only the public sector can ensure that everyone has access to energy, that it is managed effectively and efficiently, and that we are less dependent on fossil fuels.
− the energy strategy for europe 2011-2020 sets out broad guidelines aimed at strengthening the newly defined internal energy market.
this report strengthens the areas of competition and market instruments, but is not ambitious on renewable energy or reducing energy consumption.
the commission has also taken the initiative of proposing a new regulation on the protection of the environment.
finally, it links european energy security to close cooperation with nato.
the three objectives outlined by the commission for european energy policy are very clear and ambitious, namely: moving towards a low-carbon energy system, ensuring security of energy supply and ensuring the enhancement of the union's competitiveness and the supply of energy to all consumers at affordable prices.
− i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on a new energy strategy for europe 2011-2020 (2010/2108 (ini)) because, following the rapporteur's lead, i consider that the lisbon treaty, by including a specific chapter on energy, now provides a sound legal basis for the development of energy initiatives based on sustainability, security of supply, network interconnection and solidarity.
this requires a strong leadership from the commission, together with a convincing demonstration of the will and clear support of the member states, to confront the problem of late or poor implementation of energy legislation and the lack of comprehensive energy strategies.
in this sense, the document 'towards a new energy strategy for europe 2011-2020' is a first step towards a comprehensive european union policy for the energy sector under the eu 2020 strategy.
the strategy proposed for the union highlights the following: ensuring support for modern integrated networks, ensuring security of energy supply, promoting energy research, development and innovation and placing consumers and citizens at the centre of eu energy policy.
− the lisbon treaty sets out a set of clear energy policy objectives: ensuring the functioning of the internal energy market, security of supply, energy efficiency and the promotion of energy networks and renewable energy sources.
the eu therefore needs to adopt a new energy strategy to achieve these objectives and the 20-20-20 targets set in the climate package.
- an energy strategy for europe is essential to implement the new policy under the lisbon treaty.
there is now a solid legal basis for developing energy initiatives based on sustainability, security of supply and network interconnection and solidarity.
the objectives of a structured plan, as presented to the european parliament, should be the completion of a single energy market and the security and efficiency of energy supply.
it is a fact that the energy sector in europe faces many current and future challenges.
the european union is increasingly dependent on imported energy and its production at home requires high investment, at a time when it is still facing the consequences of an economic crisis.
i would like to stress the importance of exploiting the potential of renewable energy in the european union better and of putting eu consumers and citizens at the centre of european energy policy.
- i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european union should actively contribute to making the cancun climate change conference a promising and transparent one, particularly as regards financing for adaptation, forestry, resource efficiency, technology transfer, surveillance, reporting and verification.
the european union should therefore also facilitate the building of strong political engagement with third countries through the development of policies that create effective mechanisms for international cooperation on climate change, both within and outside the united nations framework convention on climate change.
the historical responsibility of developed countries for the irreversibility of climate change and their obligation to assist developing and least developed countries in their adaptation to climate change should also be emphasised, including through the provision of financial support to national adaptation action programmes, which are important instruments for climate change adaptation that promote ownership.
− the success of the cancun climate conference is fundamental to the credibility of the negotiating process within the united nations.
in the event of no global agreement, there should still be an openness on the part of europe to consider a second commitment period to the kyoto protocol, imposing conditions, notably on the environmental integrity of the protocol, the redesign of the clean development mechanism and the commitments of the world's major emitters such as china and the united states.
following the unambitious outcome of the copenhagen conference, there is a need to restore confidence in international climate change negotiations.
it is up to the european union to take up its leadership role in the climate change negotiations and to actively contribute to more constructive, transparent and bold compromise solutions coming out of cancún.
i also believe that the european union should aim to step up its action in the field of climate diplomacy by seeking solid commitments with third countries in the design of policies that create effective instruments and mechanisms for international cooperation on environmental protection and climate change.
- i voted in favour of the resolution on the cancún climate conference because i believe that the european parliament must send a clear message that it is necessary for world leaders to show political determination and leadership during the negotiations in order to make progress towards the convention and the kyoto protocol.
− regardless of the debate on the origin of climate change, the role of human action in its verification and the power of human action to reverse it, it is now clear that the issue has very serious implications in the most varied areas of human life and threatens to provoke various imbalances on a global scale.
climate change has caused, among other things, worrying sea level rise, forced migration, the struggle for access to waterways and the most fertile land, and has, as in the case of sudan, pitted nomadic herders against sedentary farmers.
the european union must actively participate in this global effort and do its utmost to follow up the problem and to find lasting solutions which, ideally, can reconcile scientific and technological progress and the development of populations with environmental quality and respect for nature.
- for the cancun climate summit i advocate a binding agreement which includes an international sanctioning regime.
the eu has been a leader in the fight against climate change, and it should be encouraged to strengthen that leadership, but without forgetting the tremendous efforts our industries are already making to meet mandatory emission reductions in the european space.
it is noted that the eu contributes 15% to global emissions, estimated to fall to 10% in 2030, while the us, china and india contribute half of the global emissions with a tendency to increase.
i cannot therefore agree that the eu should limit itself to 30% of co2 emissions instead of the 20% target if this is not properly accompanied by other countries, in particular the united states.
on the contrary, i believe that even if others do not follow, we must continue to invest in scientific research, in technological innovation in decarbonised energy, in energy efficiency and in the creation of green jobs, in order to increase our competitiveness.
there is a clear misunderstanding of the deep meaning and significance of the principle of "common but differentiated responsibility" when historically large emitters (such as the us, the world's largest per capita emitter, which resists making serious reduction commitments) and emerging economies such as china or india (with per capita emissions 10 and 4 times lower than the us respectively) are put on an equal footing.
- once again, expectations are high for the cancún climate conference.
the countries with the greatest responsibility in this area have to continue to work on reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
the eu must be able to show its leadership in the fight against climate change.
the european union has a key role to play and should lead the way in ambition in the context of climate change.
as regards emission reduction commitments, the increase should also be kept below 1,5 °c, with global greenhouse gas emissions needing to peak by 2015 at the latest and to decrease by at least 50% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels and then continue to decrease.
these are not mere percentages, but targets scientifically studied as possible and necessary to create a decisive turning point in the path we have taken towards the destruction of significant parts of the biodiversity of our planet.
- i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european union must show its strong commitment and determination in the context of the global effort to find solutions to mitigate climate change and its impacts.
this requires the implementation of the necessary constitutional reforms, the consolidation of the rule of law, the establishment of a social market economy and renewed efforts to combat corruption and improve the business and investment climate.
- i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european union must take the lead in the fight against climate change by strengthening its economic competitiveness through energy saving and renewable economies, two sectors which can improve its energy security and which have a strong potential in terms of industrial development, innovation, spatial planning and job creation.
however, to fulfil this role and benefit from competitiveness, the european union will have to change its trade policies, whether bilateral, regional or multilateral, as trade in goods and services is responsible for around 20% of global greenhouse gas emissions.
it should also be active in relation to emissions from international transport and climate-friendly technologies.
despite the way ahead for the union in this area, important contributions have already been made, in particular with regard to illegal timber imports, biofuels and aviation emissions.
- i voted in favour of the report on 'international trade policy in the context of the climate change imperatives', because, given that trade in goods and services is responsible for some 20% of global greenhouse gas emissions, measures are needed at the level of the common trade policy to curb global warming.
− after the impasse of the copenhagen climate change conference, it is important that the european union continues along the lines it has followed so far, towards a serious commitment to sustainable development, seeking to reduce its carbon emissions without jeopardising european industries.
but europe's commitment to reducing emissions must not lose sight of economic efficiency and must not jeopardise the economic sustainability of states currently experiencing an unprecedented economic crisis.
we cannot allow the increasing transfer of technology to developing countries as a means of dealing with carbon leakage and we cannot allow policies to reduce co2 emissions to doom european industry.
the un climate summit in copenhagen resulted in a disappointing agreement that is not enough to limit global warming to below 2°c.
the eu has, on the contrary, been a leader in the fight against climate change and should be encouraged to strengthen that leadership, not forgetting the tremendous efforts our industries are already making to meet the mandatory emission reductions in the european space.
it is noted that the eu contributes 15% to global emissions, estimated to fall to 10% in 2030, while the us, china and india contribute half of the global emissions with a tendency to increase.
in the context of the eu's international trade policy on climate change, even if others do not follow, our aim should be to focus on scientific research, technological innovation in decarbonised energy, energy efficiency and the creation of green jobs in order to increase our competitiveness.
− implementing many of the measures proposed in this report would not make a positive contribution to combating climate change.
on the contrary, supporting the lisbon treaty and 'free trade', applying palliative controls on the environmental degradation that trade liberalization is generating, will only worsen the environmental degradation that increasingly threatens the planet and everyone who lives on it.
for our part, we do not accept it and therefore oppose: the continuing insistence on control of emissions through 'emission trading', which has shown that instead of reducing emissions it increases them; greater 'opening of markets' and the division of labour at world level, so that eu capital can lay its hands on the resources of the third world countries, lowering costs and increasing profits; a green capitalism which combines 'climate protection and trade liberalisation' and 'exchanges of environmental goods and services'.
- trade in goods and services is responsible for about 20% of global greenhouse gas emissions.
in many member states, consumption-related emissions are higher than production-related emissions.
the european union must fight these 'traded' emissions.
that is the only way to start fighting climate change effectively.
the eu must transform its modes of production and consumption and not simply outsource its emissions.
the eu should orient its trade policies towards discriminating products on the basis of their climate impact and thus contribute to the necessary disruptions in production and consumption patterns and investment strategies.
the climate policies of our social partners cannot be compromised to increase european market shares.
the eu must take an active stance on international transport emissions and ensure access to climate-friendly technologies from developing countries.
− the balance between international trade policy and the imperatives of climate change is not easy to achieve, but an effort must be made to significantly reduce the levels of greenhouse gas emissions for which international trade is responsible.
- i voted in favour of the ep resolution on international trade policies in the context of the climate change imperatives, as i am reviewing the european council's ambitious targets for reducing european greenhouse gas emissions by 80-95% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels, which is necessary if the union is to regain international leadership in climate terms, and which will certainly lead to an incentive for other countries to make more ambitious commitments as well.
i stress the importance of achieving a binding international agreement on climate protection and strongly support the launching of a public debate on the creation of a world environmental organisation.
i also believe it is essential to strengthen the positive interaction between trade and climate protection, to make international trade prices fairer and to avoid carbon leakage, to encourage product differentiation in line with their effects on the climate, to ensure that trade liberalisation does not jeopardise ambitious climate policies, to fully integrate transport into the climate trade issue, to strengthen the instruments for trade-climate compatibility and the eu's trade-climate coherence from the perspective of developing countries.
i therefore accept the principles proposed in this report to conduct trade in a way that is consistent with the union's objectives and, in particular, with its external policy, which can be achieved by implementing corporate social and environmental responsibility in trade so that they no longer continue to breach the principles of social responsibility, as this is a form of social dumping which must be regulated, by endorsing the proposals in this report, in particular as regards the mechanisms for judicial cooperation between the eu and partner countries to prosecute multinational companies for serious breaches of the environment and fundamental rights and by adopting a new initiative by the commission.
− within economic globalisation and international trade there has been an increase in competitive pressure between nations which has sometimes led to serious abuses of human rights and the environment.
i voted in favour of this report because i consider it particularly relevant in ensuring the development of more sustainable policies which take social and environmental issues into account, in particular by promoting corporate social responsibility.
in particular, this report proposes that future trade agreements negotiated by the european union contain a chapter on sustainable development which includes a clause on 'corporate social responsibility', which i consider crucial.
these more effective and well-implemented standards should contribute to the development of more sustainable policies that genuinely take into account social and environmental concerns and not just the profit-at-all-costs of companies.
− the principles governing csr are fully recognised at international level and focus on the expectation of responsible behaviour on the part of companies, which presupposes respect for the legislation in force, in particular in the field of taxation, employment, industrial relations, human rights, the environment, consumer rights and their involvement in the fight against corruption.
i therefore welcome the fact that the eu is now incorporating a chapter on sustainable development with csr clauses in future trade agreements.
the union shall ensure that the external policies it pursues contribute effectively to the sustainable development and social development of those countries.
according to article 207 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the eu's common commercial policy is to be conducted 'in accordance with the principles and objectives of the union's external action', and according to article 3 it is to contribute, inter alia, to 'the sustainable development of the planet, solidarity and mutual respect among peoples, free and fair trade, the eradication of poverty and the protection of human rights, in particular those of the child, as well as the strict observance and development of international law, including respect for the principles of the united nations charter'.
− the principles governing existing legislation, particularly in the fields of taxation, employment, industrial relations, human rights, the environment, consumer rights and their involvement in the fight against corruption, must be adopted by all companies operating in international trade.
as we know, and as has already been said here in this house, the elections were held in a climate of fear and intimidation, they were a real farce which did not even serve to give the military junta a civilian veneer, many people were excluded from voting, thousands of burmese - 1,000 according to the military junta's own generals - took refuge in thailand, where more than 100,000 burmese are already living and where there are increased risks of armed conflict along the burmese borders.
this is a reminder that the release of aung san suu kyi obviously fills us with joy and hope of being with this remarkable woman, as has already been mentioned, and of welcoming her here in parliament, but it cannot distract our attention from what is most important in burma, namely the release of an entire people and more than 2 000 political prisoners, and from a general climate of intimidation and fear.
after another climate change conference, i think, to be honest with ourselves, the strongest thing we can say is that it was better than copenhagen because we got some results and some progress.
support for production and the development of the productive capacities of each country and region, the full exploitation of its endogenous potential through the sustainable use of its resources, the preservation of the environment and the creation of jobs with rights, the strengthening of social protection systems and the strengthening of public services are strategic drivers essential for effective economic, social and territorial cohesion.
mr president, mr commissioner, recognising the importance of cohesion policy as a contribution to growth and prosperity, and its importance in promoting the balanced development of the regions, recognising that the balanced development of the regions is indispensable to the functioning of the internal market and of the union itself, and recognising that cohesion policy is essential to the achievement of the eu 2020 objectives, recognising that cohesion policy is useful for the environment, for job creation, for training, for the creation of a modern transport network, recognising all these things, it is not acceptable, mr president, commissioner, that the commission should take advantage of these successes of the regions and now also want to turn them into a threat to member states which do not meet the macroeconomic criteria.
disasters of this nature, whether accidental or criminal, know no borders and have the potential to devastate human lives, infrastructure, the environment and public health.
- having regard to the opinion of the committee on regional development and the fact that a reduction in the appropriations for payments in the field of energy for the economic recovery is proposed - european wind-grid system - in order to cover the countries affected (portugal and france) by large-scale natural disasters through the solidarity fund, and also stressing the fact that this decision lays down the basic assumptions for the operation of the european solidarity fund, i agree with this report.
- despite the importance of investment projects in energy infrastructure, and in particular wind energy, i am in favour of reducing the payment appropriations under budget heading 06 04 14 03, so that these funds are reallocated to payment appropriations of eur 66.891.540 (budget heading 13 06 01), to cover the needs related to the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund.
in this context, the commission proposed the mobilisation of the solidarity fund in the amount of eur 31 255 790 for portugal and eur 35 635 750 for france, for a total of eur 66 891 540. today, in the name of european solidarity, we are approving a reallocation of the payment appropriations corresponding to this amount from budget line 06041403: energy projects for the recovery of the economy european offshore wind network system, with a view to repairing infrastructure and rebuilding areas affected by disasters.
the proposal we made during the debate on the 2011 budget to create a european programme for employment and sustainable development, allocating 1% of eu gdp, to be complemented by funds from the member states, with a view to real convergence, promoting the potential of each country, the sustainable use of its resources, and focusing on production and the creation of jobs with rights, is now becoming more urgent.
- in view of the increasing frequency and intensity of disasters with serious human, economic, social and environmental consequences, the european parliament's recommendation on the establishment of a rapid eu response to disasters is of particular importance, and i voted in favour of it as it sets out the key aspects to be taken into account.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
− the record of natural and man-made disasters has been increasing not only in number but also in intensity and extent, and consequently in their human, socioeconomic and environmental effects.
whether accidental or intentional, they represent a serious threat with the potential to have devastating and far-reaching effects on the safety, well-being and health of european citizens, the environment, cultural heritage and basic infrastructure.
the europe 2020 territorial compact for regional and local authorities could contribute to enhancing their contribution to the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
if, on the one hand, legal labour migration, especially skilled labour, helps to combat illegal work and can help the competitiveness of the economy and overcome existing shortcomings, on the other hand we must not forget that, in a period of crisis and economic vulnerability with rising unemployment, labour migration policy must be flexible, as the commission advocates, but it must also be sustainable and reasonable.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
i share the aim of creating tougher rules in this area, creating a hostile environment for traffickers, greater protection for victims and more rigorous prevention.
− the 2009 prague summit joint declaration on the eastern partnership stressed the importance of promoting citizens' mobility in a safe environment, based on visa facilitation and readmission agreements.
the development of production in each country and region, the sustainable use of resources and the preservation of the environment are strategic drivers for the economic development of each country, as are the creation of jobs with rights, the strengthening of the public service network and the social functions of the state.
territorial and social cohesion must be at the heart of the architecture of a new policy aimed at ensuring sustainable growth and increased competitiveness on a global scale.
european cohesion policy aims to reduce regional disparities, taking into account the impact of global challenges such as climate change, demographic change, energy and biodiversity protection issues, as well as the new challenges arising from the economic and financial crisis.
competitiveness within the european union can only be achieved through sustainable economic growth, and cohesion policy therefore contributes to the successful achievement of the eu 2020 objectives and to responding to societal and economic challenges.
we cannot allow the poorest to always be the ones paying the most, because the environmental and climate crisis is a survival crisis for all of us and it is an issue that involves all of us.
we have to get back to 30% on emissions reductions, and there is no reason why we should not do so, just as we have to do on temperature and global warming.
i would like to stress what has also been mentioned here, which is the re-establishment of confidence in multilateralism and the possibility of obtaining a binding international agreement on climate change, which must be next year in durban and we must make an effort to achieve this.
where is the serious discussion about the ineffectiveness and perversity of market instruments such as the carbon market, about flexibility mechanisms such as the clean development mechanism, about hot air and all the other juggling that serves more to open up good business prospects for some than to actually achieve reduction targets?
there will be a lot of pressure in durban next year as the only binding agreement on climate change expires, but it is very important that the agreement reached in copenhagen is now an official un document supported by all countries except bolivia.
i welcome the fact that many of the socialist positions advocated here in the ep have been introduced in the text, such as the creation of a 'global green fund' to help developing countries adapt to climate change and mitigate its effects.
i have been following the international climate negotiations for some 15 years and i am particularly happy with the agreements reached in cancún.
the united nations has regained its credibility as a forum for the formulation of multilateral climate agreements.
i particularly welcome the creation of the climate fund.
based on the results of cancún, it will now be necessary to work hard for a successful durban conference in 2011.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i too would like to begin by saying that i think it is timely that a proposal for a revision of the energy efficiency action plan has been tabled and if there were any doubts, i think the debate we are having here today would have cleared them up.
energy efficiency policy is absolutely fundamental in a number of sectors, from buildings to energy infrastructure, information and communication technologies, transport, financing issues, all these issues and more, and all other sectors.
just as energy efficiency policy is fundamental to our success in combating climate change, as has already been said, so is the reduction of emissions to which we must respond.
we cannot have a discourse on the one hand, advocating the reduction of emissions, and have another discourse, as here, on energy efficiency, saying that it is not possible.
as already mentioned, the situation of keeping to voluntary criteria has only brought us to the situation we are in now: we cannot set binding targets because it will be impossible to achieve 20 percent energy efficiency by 2020 and tell our citizens that it was a vain promise and that nothing will happen, because we have only achieved 9 percent.
i think that is an unacceptable and contradictory argument in itself because if we are not going to achieve 20% energy efficiency, it is precisely because we have not set binding targets for it.
i hope that tomorrow the political will will be to set that 20 percent energy efficiency target by 2020, not only because if we meet it, it would create a million jobs, new jobs, and we are in a situation where we cannot waste job creation.
it also shows itself incapable of having a common policy on energy efficiency.
mr president, the reality is that it is not enough to adopt an energy efficiency action plan.
the results of the 2006 plan need to be assessed, policies need to be put in place to help achieve the targets, and the means of increasing energy efficiency need to be diversified.
the argument of the crisis cannot be used as an excuse for not meeting the 20% target by 2020 or for finding solutions to the serious problem of energy poverty.
it is important to spread the positive experiences in some countries, not to forget china and the united states, and to focus on financing measures to increase energy efficiency in buildings, social housing, transport and industry.
energy efficiency also increases employment, it also reduces poverty, it is also a factor of progress and social development.
mr president, commissioner, energy efficiency is crucial to increase security of supply, improve air quality, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and increase the competitiveness of our society.
energy efficiency means doing more with less.
this report proposes an ambitious vision for energy efficiency through, for example, the introduction of individual targets and positive incentives.
important elements are introduced in the modernisation of energy infrastructures such as smart grids, energy efficiency in buildings and transport, the use of ict and the development of scientific research in the field of energy.
this report stresses the need to double the funds for scientific research into technological development and demonstration in the energy field.
in the area of financing, the report also encourages the use of structural funds for energy efficiency and that this be a priority in the eu budget after 2013. i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr bendtsen, on the excellent work he has done, on the balance he has struck, and i would like to invite everyone to support this important report.
there is much talk about the portuguese situation, but a report by the international monetary fund this month concludes that portugal was one of the countries that made the most reforms to ensure the sustainability of public finances and social security.
it is essential to provide the eu with a sustainable budget that can be fully and predictably implemented from the beginning of the financial year, as opposed to a system of provisional twelfths that would jeopardise the implementation of its policies.
- i voted in favour of parliament's resolution because i considered that, although the draft budget as amended by the council does not fully meet the real need for a sustainable, coherent and effective budget of the union, parliament's objective of providing the union with a budget capable of being fully and predictably implemented from the beginning of the financial year has been achieved.
- i voted in favour of parliament's resolution because i agree that, although the draft budget as amended by the council does not fully meet the real need for a sustainable, coherent and effective budget of the union, parliament's aim was to provide the union with a budget which could be fully and predictably implemented from the beginning of the financial year.
− the commission has presented an ambitious commission work programme for 2011, which has as its key points: (i) inclusive growth; (ii) sustainable growth and (iii) financial regulation.
as regards the issue of inclusive growth, where the commission puts the emphasis on the sustainability of social security systems and the fight against poverty, i believe that we need to find the exact balance between austerity and social support and determine the direction in which the reforms of european social security systems should go.
on the subject of sustainable growth, it is important to understand how the necessary environmental protection will be reconciled with future cap and cfp reforms.
even if he criticizes the european commission on one or other point for not having given the answers that parliament wanted, in practice he gives him cover, whether it is when he congratulates himself on the priority given to economic reform, giving priority to budgetary sustainability and secondary to social sustainability, or when he insists on defending the deepening of the single market, or when he insists on the conclusion of the doha round as soon as possible, and on the respective free trade agreements.
− the commission's new work programme for 2011 is based on three pillars: (1) inclusive growth; (2) sustainable growth and (3) financial regulation.
we will therefore have to work towards achieving the sustainability of social security systems, the fight against poverty, economic growth that is also concerned with protecting the environment, the strengthening of economic governance, so that the european banking system becomes stronger and can withstand future crisis scenarios, and the strengthening of the budgetary policies of the member states, because the main challenge for 2011 is to get out of the crisis and restart a growth policy.
effective, sustainable and inclusive growth of the economy is key to restoring confidence and optimism in the eu.
in this sense, the emphasis on research and development, energy security and horizontal labour policies which allow for the real movement of workers are fundamental pillars of a growth-oriented work programme.
the year 2011 should be the year in which eu 2020 is integrated into european work to pursue the objectives of smart, sustainable and integrated growth.
i believe that regional integration of african countries through the african union, trade and investment are of crucial importance in this context for political and economic stability and sustainable growth in africa.
i also share president barroso's conviction that renewable energy is vital for africa's economic and social development, supporting his call for a green energy revolution in africa.
− i voted in favour of the resolution on the future of the africa-eu strategic partnership in the run-up to the 3rd africa-eu summit because i believe that the partnership established between the two continents three years ago, during the portuguese eu presidency, should be further strengthened so that together we can face common challenges and promote sustainable development, peace and human rights.
i reiterate my hope for a fruitful agreement at the next summit and for sustainable objectives for both partners to combat poverty and ensure a decent income and livelihood, as well as the realisation of basic human rights, including social, economic and environmental rights in africa.
the crisis presented as financial finally exposes the limits of economic growth as understood by capitalism, namely in the availability of fertile land for the production of food and other biological raw materials, geological reserves for the extraction of mineral raw materials and energy to power industries.
i would highlight the peace and security agenda, the eu's efforts to provide predictable and sustainable funding for african peace support operations, and the need to build local capacity, resilience and resolve to protect civilians in armed conflict.
this effort is crucial to meet the millennium development goals, notably with regard to specific policies on maternal, newborn and child health, gender, education, agricultural policy, sustainable development, access to water and sanitation.
on the subject of growth, investment and job creation, the summit stressed the need to create economic growth capable of generating employment and, at the same time, sustainable social development.
i therefore agree that this matter should be given special attention so that we can build a more economically and socially sustainable society.
− i agree with the general objectives of this action plan, that better information flow at local level should be ensured or that one-stop shops should be set up, that in view of the reduced use of erdf resources for energy efficiency measures, member states and regions should make energy efficiency a horizontal approach to their development, as it is a cost-effective means of promoting economic competitiveness, creating jobs and reducing fuel shortages.
i also agree that the commission should consult local and regional representatives in order to define guidelines for energy development and provide financial support for local and regional projects through innovative programmes using existing energy resources and the structural funds.
in this context of possible actions, it is proposed to create greater incentives for regions which have so far played an above-average role in energy efficiency, by promoting their energy independence and, on the other hand, to promote the sharing of good practices between these regions and those with little development in this area.
− energy efficiency is crucial to increasing security of supply, air quality, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and increasing the competitiveness of our society.
energy efficiency means doing "more" with "less" resources.
this report proposes an ambitious vision for energy efficiency through, for example, the introduction of individual targets and positive incentives.
important elements are introduced in the area of modernisation of energy infrastructures such as smart grids, energy efficiency in buildings and transport, use of ict and development of scientific research in the field of energy.
this report stresses the need to double funding for scientific research, technological development and demonstration in the field of energy.
in the area of financing, the report also encourages the use of the structural funds for energy efficiency and that this should be a priority in the eu budget after 2013. i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr bendtsen, on the excellent work he has done and the balance he has struck, and i would ask everyone to support this important report.
- i voted in favour of the report on the energy efficiency action plan because it contains important proposals for the environment and the economy, in particular the presentation of european legislation introducing binding targets for the reduction of energy consumption.
− in 2008, europe committed itself to achieving a 20% reduction in energy consumption by 2020 at the latest and to ensuring that 20% of its energy consumption comes from renewable sources.
this is a key goal to help europe meet its co2 emissions reduction target and to reduce its dependence on fossil fuels, but it must remain the same, a goal to which the various states voluntarily adhere.
for this to happen, rather than imposing a binding limit, it will be more important for member states to agree on solutions that allow for greater energy efficiency and less energy waste, without jeopardising development and without this representing an excessive cost for european industries and producers, especially at a time of economic crisis such as the one we are going through.
− this report deals with energy efficiency policy in the eu.
the commission green paper (2005/0265 final) on energy efficiency estimates that about one million new jobs could potentially be created, directly and indirectly, in europe.
according to this communication, the beneficiaries of energy efficiency measures are especially smes and it is added that an average household could save on average €1,000 per year with energy efficiency measures.
mandatory energy efficiency measures are also crucial to reduce the energy deficit resulting from oil and gas imports from the gulf and russia.
we already have binding targets to increase the share of renewable energy in the european union by 20%.
without binding energy efficiency measures and with the current framework we could only achieve half of the potential.
− there have been many promises to increase energy efficiency, but the european union is at risk of not meeting its own targets of 20% by 2020. the latest figures suggest an actual average of only 9%, despite the contribution that increased energy efficiency can make to reducing emissions and energy consumption and dependence.
the report contains a wide range of issues which conveniently cover the whole wide field of energy efficiency, although it points to paths which are unlikely to achieve the objectives it seeks to achieve.
but there are aspects on which we disagree, such as the association of energy efficiency with the so-called europe 2020 strategy, which envisages the completion of the internal energy market, the promotion of market instruments, the european emissions trading system (covering part of the profits in energy efficiency), and forgetting the need to defend a strong public energy sector that each state must promote.
while agreeing that community funds are needed to achieve the objectives, there are still some doubts as to the practical feasibility of using up to 15% of the erdf or using the eafrd for energy efficiency, since it should be up to the member states to define their needs and priorities for the distribution of these funds.
− an action plan for european energy policy must address the following aspects: moving towards a low-carbon energy system, ensuring security of energy supply and ensuring the enhancement of the union's competitiveness and the supply of energy to all consumers at affordable prices.
− the rapporteur, a member of the epp group, for the review of the energy efficiency action plan proposes a balanced approach to achieving the 20% energy saving target set by the european council in 2007. the pragmatic way of implementing an energy efficiency policy, proposed by the rapporteur, through individual targets and without the imposition of legally binding objectives, seemed to me the most appropriate way, in the present economic and political context, to achieve this objective.
in the report, which i am voting in favour of, i highlight the various actions at community and member state level to promote energy efficiency: the implementation of existing legislation in this field, energy-efficient urban development, the construction of energy-efficient buildings and the financing of these and other measures through the creation of national energy efficiency funds.
it should be noted that this report by the european parliament is an important contribution to the ongoing review of the energy efficiency action plan by the european commission.
thirdly, the militarization of access to energy sources has been consolidated.
finally, the military defence of the development model which creates environmental imbalances and disturbs the social crisis has been instituted.
the whole of european cultural history, like its history in general, is not only built up of diversity and admirable creative energy and progress, but also of violent antagonistic confrontation, of intolerance, of multiple lines and contexts of cultural domination.
there were reports of serious attacks on freedom during the second round of elections, including a climate of tension and violence that caused several deaths and injuries.