however, i regret that the spanish presidency's programme does not contain any concrete reference to inland waterways, in particular the rhine-main-danube axis, although during the previous year the european commission committed itself to developing a strategy for the danube in 2010. i am aware that there are many other priorities for the spanish presidency to address: the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and changes in case law, institutional transformation, managing crisis mitigation and resuming sustainable growth.
however, i believe that transport infrastructure, and in particular inland waterway infrastructure, including the danube, and multimodality, are practical and viable ways of ensuring sustainable development and new jobs, and for this reason i believe that the absence of such an element in the spanish presidency's programme is a shortcoming that urgently needs to be remedied.
the preparations for the legislative and presidential elections on 7 march have created a feverish climate for the formation of new coalitions and alliances.
likewise, the importance that you attach to climate change and food security is shared by us and will be reflected in the final outcome.
at the same time, we would be interested to learn more from parliament how it sees the jpa’s role and functioning in a changing political and institutional environment.
we fully share the importance of climate change and renewable energies which are already included in the present revision exercise.
on the one hand, the acp countries are deeply affected by the economic and financial crisis, but also by food insecurity and the consequences of climate change, on the other hand, there is an institutional challenge for all parties to the negotiations to reflect adequately the tendencies towards regionalisation in the acp-eu relationship.
the challenges posed by economic and social events such as the economic and financial crisis, armed conflicts, the challenges posed by the negative population health trend such as the increase in the number of infections with communicable diseases (tb, aids, malaria) and the increase in the number of victims of violence or natural disasters, as well as the uncontrollable challenges posed by climate change, are exacerbating the need to fortify the population of developing countries against systemic social deficiencies.
it is desirable that the review also takes into account the future danube strategy which, although not directly mentioned in the presidency programme, is a commitment of the european commission for 2010. in the energy field, the european energy efficiency action plan is to be improved and the energy action plan 2010-2014 adopted.
as regards the first, i think the review should include a proposal on financial resources, in particular for energy efficiency in buildings.
it is in the interest of the european union that this funding be continued in the energy action plan 2010-2014. as regards the eastern partnership, it is noted that the european union's relations with ukraine are very important.
i would therefore ask you not to lose sight of the south caucasus, an important alternative energy source for the european union, nor of the republic of moldova, which is in great need of the union's help in this period of transition to democracy.
the major common objective is to ensure the energy security of the european union, with romania having on its agenda: nabucco, the pan-european constanta-trieste oil pipeline, interconnection with the gas networks of the neighbouring states: romania-hungary (arad-szeget), romania-bulgaria (giurgiu-ruse), isaccea and negru vodă.
the eu's economic crisis requires support for the business environment, especially in the new member states which are experiencing serious problems in this respect.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to welcome the fact that the spanish presidency has made it a priority to guarantee the european union's energy security.
there are several files, including the energy efficiency of buildings directive and the intelligent transport systems directive, whose adoption depends on the speed with which these rules for institutional cooperation will be established.
i welcome the commission's proposal because its adoption will lead to both the stabilisation of employment in the medium term and the economic and social environment in these outermost regions of europe, which are facing specific problems.
as expected, the copenhagen summit has not produced any concrete results, but we have a clear view of global warming and the need for action.
we should be able to achieve positive results; we have both foreign policy and climate change commissioners.
i hope that at the informal meeting in seville in january, the environment ministers will take a pragmatic approach to the copenhagen outcome and look at climate change in the context of the future energy action plan for 2010-14. the third package of internal energy market measures also needs to be coordinated with the copenhagen accord in order to achieve energy security, promote renewable energy, and capture and store carbon dioxide.
unlike other regions of the world, the european union understands and takes a leading role in the fight against climate change.
we need to promote more investment programmes in our states, both in renewable energy, but also in areas with direct implications for climate change.
i am referring here to both small projects, such as technical assistance for local energy, and large projects with regional coverage, such as selective waste management and recycling or the rehabilitation and extension of water and sewerage networks and systems.
the road to a new climate agreement was paved with political optimism, but the negotiations have shown that optimism and respect for the environment are european rather than global values.
the copenhagen summit on the environment was characterised by many as a resounding failure, as it resulted in a vague agreement with no clear assumptions or deadlines.
however, if we look more closely at what happened in the danish capital, we see that here the foundations of a new world climate order have been laid, but it will take years and years of hard work and negotiations to get there.
115 heads of state and government met for the first time to discuss climate change.
it's an important signal, and the fact that the summit was held under the un umbrella shows that even developing and under-industrialized countries are realizing that they need to play an active role in reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
the importance of bilateral talks between major industrialized and developing countries has increased, especially in the light of the upcoming environmental summit in mexico.
the european union's inability to act as a catalyst for global efforts to limit the effects of climate change should also be examined.
by unilaterally announcing, a year before this conference, its intention to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020, the eu had the moral high ground to give impetus to the copenhagen negotiations.
one month after the climate change conference we can take stock.
it should be noted, however, that all the major economic and political powers of the world have come together to debate and take responsibility for combating climate change: the objective of keeping the global warming gradient at 2°c has been recognised and financial support of $30 billion for 2010-2012 (fast start financing) and $100 billion by 2020 has been agreed.
this appropriation is intended to finance climate change mitigation and adaptation measures for the least developed and vulnerable countries.
i believe that the future commission, especially since there will also be a commissioner for climate change and action, must carefully assess all reduction proposals commitments made by the countries party to the convention, the united nations and also prepare negotiations so that at cop 16 - mexico 2010 , a legally binding agreement can be concluded.
for example, the creation of the copenhagen green climate fund will provide financing for poorer countries to adapt to climate change and to develop clean energy, and the formal acceptance by emerging economies that they have co-responsibility makes a concrete commitment from these countries more likely in the near future.
the commissioner-designate for climate action has expressed commitment to an international agreement on the protection of tropical forests, the inclusion of road transport and shipping in the ets, and the linking of eu and us cap-and-trade systems, which would represent a crucial step in international cooperation for global emission reductions.
we should continue to develop and implement our own climate legislation as other countries work towards theirs.
- the council strongly agrees with you, mr jim higgins, that agriculture and deforestation are factors affecting co2 emissions into the atmosphere.
in the case of sustainable agriculture, progress has always been made in both areas.
within the review of the cap reform, it is being taken into account to meet the challenges of mitigation and adaptation to climate change and within, as you know, an evolution of european policy, which considers the common agricultural policy as an important part, to be taken into account in relation to the wider policy of combating climate change.
it is therefore necessary to help promote sustainable forest management.
the position of the european union in copenhagen has been along these lines and, within the small or big disappointment of some of the unfulfilled copenhagen objectives, some technical issues have been clarified in relation to the importance of tropical deforestation, which must be addressed in developing countries as a clear factor in avoiding co2 emissions.
the truth is that, in matters of biodiversity, the spanish presidency aims to deepen conservation and sustainable use; that is, to have an advanced, profound vision of biodiversity.
there are many other elements to consider, but i can assure you that this is going to be an important moment in the fight against deforestation of our forests, that the orientation is very much in line with the biodiversity strategy and that this will undoubtedly be one of the keys to the european union's action this year.
so i think that in this respect there has been significant progress in copenhagen and there can be no doubt that the european union is taking a leading position, a leading position, in this and other aspects of the fight against climate change.
the european union wants to tackle this issue in a much deeper way and so naturally the issues you raise are closely linked to the european union's action in the fight against climate change.
the specific case mentioned is naturally part of the implementation of measures to combat climate change.
the commission has already taken the initiative of introducing a new procedure for the adoption of the directive on the protection of the environment by means of the use of biotechnology.
the danube region plays an important role in diversifying the european union's energy supply sources.
implementing joint projects in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy, investing in new technologies and developing small and medium-sized enterprises will help to stimulate the green economy throughout the danube macro-region.
the danube region and in particular the danube delta comprises several special protection areas and special conservation areas within natura 2000, being a unique and fragile ecosystem.
environmental protection in the danube basin will greatly influence agricultural and rural development in the region.
nevertheless, it seems likely that the strategy will be based on three broad pillars or, in other words, broader policy priorities: firstly, to improve connectivity and environmentally sustainable communication systems; secondly, to protect the environment, preserve water resources and improve risk prevention activities; and thirdly, to reinforce socioeconomic human and institutional development.
the rhine-main-danube axis is a bridge between east and west, between the north sea and the black sea, is directly linked to ensuring energy security, opens the way to asia through the black sea, and also links the mediterranean sea.
among the major priorities to be pursued are: ensuring navigability along the entire axis, first of all the danube-rhine connection and the standardisation of navigation systems, modernising river ports and developing related infrastructure to become integrated multimodal systems, the efficient use of the danube's energy potential, developing irrigation systems to prevent desertification, implementing an integrated water monitoring system to increase the capacity to forecast, prevent and respond to floods, drought or pollution.
at present, financial instruments are available for infrastructure projects, economic development or environmental protection, but they can only be used by member states and their neighbouring countries.
the commission is, as far as we know, considering consulting local partners to ensure sustainable development.
the question remains whether the objectives of this strategy should be to achieve cohesion, to exploit the economic and transport potential of the danube, to ensure the protection of the river, the ecosystem and the quality of the water.
one of the priorities of the danube strategy should be economic, namely the development of the energy capacities of both the danube and its neighbouring area.
following the january 2009 gas crisis, romania is already making a european-level effort to interconnect gas networks with neighbouring states through the arad-szeged, giurgiu-ruse, isaccea and negru vodă projects, but more efforts are needed towards alternative, renewable sources.
i appreciate that the european danube strategy must take into account the analysis and the appropriateness of objectives such as the development of energy infrastructure, namely new transmission networks and new electricity generation capacity, the promotion of energy production from renewable sources, new hydroelectric power stations, wind power stations, biofuels, the continuation of nuclear power development programmes, such as the one in cernavoda.
the protection of the environment in the danube basin must be a top priority.
in this regard, it is necessary for the union, together with the riparian countries, to be involved in the conservation of the danube delta ecosystem, including by permanently stopping the works in the bastrop canal.
we cannot allow misunderstood economic interests of a country in the eu's neighbourhood to produce an ecological disaster in the danube delta.
it will focus on areas such as transport, economic development and environmental protection.
however, i believe that we need to talk about more than the economic, environmental, transport and tourism components, and i would therefore like to stress the political importance of the strategy, the involvement of all danube countries in the planning and cooperation process, including those countries such as serbia and ukraine that are not yet members of the european union.
to achieve the results we want, we need to maintain a non-confrontational climate between us and china.
this strategy will considerably step up interregional cooperation and will have the following objectives: development and modernisation of both river transport on the rhine/meuse-main-danube axis and road and rail transport in the danube area; development and efficient use of renewable energy resources to reduce carbon emissions and increase energy security; environmental protection through the implementation of projects to restore and protect the ecosystems in the region; efficient absorption of community funds and attraction of investments, promotion of tourism, all as part of the europe 2020 strategy.
the strategy should focus on issues related to environmental protection and water quality, economic potential and trans-european transport networks.
i make a strong plea to the european parliament and the european commission to consider the possibility of intervening at the level of eu leadership to stop what will undoubtedly be an ecological and human disaster.
− the recent financial and economic crisis has fully demonstrated the major importance of sound and sustainable public finances in each member state.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the taxation of energy products, energy savings and energy savings.
measures such as ensuring transparency and information exchange at all levels, improving assistance to member states, ensuring effective cross-border cooperation and fair tax competition are all the more essential now, in the context of the financial crisis, when we have all seen how important the sustainability of tax systems is.
mr president, i think you are more than aware that europe is standing at a turning point, and you have the opportunity to take it one way or the other: either the gloomy way, with deeper economic crises, a bad competitiveness environment for european companies, more regulation and bureaucratic burden, or the courageous way, seizing all the opportunities laid down in the lisbon treaty to make europe stronger and taking a cohesive approach to global markets and challenges.
opportunities and solutions to the global challenges can be found in sectors such as the ict digital agenda, research and development and energy.
what is the aim of devising a common energy policy if we cannot deliver our citizens secure, affordable and green energy?
what is the aim of collecting data on energy infrastructures?
i hope that the revision of these two components of european policies will lead in the medium and long term to the balancing of the economic, financial and social situation in all the member states in order to prevent imbalances of the kind that are currently occurring and that endanger the sustainable development of the union as a whole.
the actions of states and local authorities must aim at the sustainable social inclusion of these communities in both urban and rural areas.
regulation (ec) no 1080/2006 has recently been amended to allow all member states to improve energy efficiency in their homes.
the first step was taken last year by relaxing the rules on the use of eu funds to improve energy efficiency.
the signing of the nabucco agreement also demonstrated turkey's commitment to creating security of gas supply in europe, as demonstrated by turkey's negotiations to join the european energy community.
progress has been made in environmental protection, notably with the signing of the kyoto protocol, in this era of adapting to the effects of climate change, but much remains to be done in the fields of water quality, nature protection and gmos.
equally important is turkey's participation in ensuring the eu's energy security.
i welcome the rapporteur's call for the energy policies of turkey and the eu to be harmonised, in particular by opening accession negotiations on the energy chapter and by integrating turkey into the european energy community.
another example is the relaxation of the conditions for the use of erdf funds to improve the energy efficiency of housing, approved by parliament last spring.
the european union has all the data and tools to engage in the sustainable reconstruction of haiti.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful organisms.
efforts must also be made to improve interethnic relations, dialogue with neighbouring countries and align environmental protection legislation.
turkey is very important for europe both from the perspective of economic and political ties and for the union's energy security.
ukraine is of particular importance to the european union from the perspective of participating in the eastern partnership and the black sea synergy of eu energy security.
- madam president, we believe that this is certainly part of a common energy policy and that it is not possible to make energy islands from a technical point of view at the same time as energy islands from a political point of view.
i would remind you that when the debate on the regulation on measures to ensure the security of energy supply took place, there was a european commitment in this respect, and i am referring in particular to the energy projects approved under the economic recovery programme carried out during the czech presidency last year; eur 425 million was allocated to three interconnection projects in the baltic area: the scanled baltic gas pipeline interconnector, the estlink-2 electricity interconnector and the sweden-baltic states interconnector.
the spanish presidency will therefore encourage the member states to support energy infrastructure projects in the baltic sea region, although it is true that it is the member states which then implement the specific projects in accordance with national legislation and the applicable european legislation.
mr minister, i would like to draw attention to the importance of integrating renewable energy sources into the national energy grid, since the european energy network is made up of the energy networks of the member states.
the baltic countries are an example of good practice in the use of renewable energy and energy efficiency in buildings.
an internal energy market requires better interconnection of national energy networks.
i would like to ask you if you have an action plan with the member states on the use of renewable energy.
- madam president, we agree with the formulation that has been made in relation to renewable energies and their integration into the european energy grid.
we also believe that this is one of the key objectives of the european union's strategy to combat climate change, which was advocated at the copenhagen conference.
we want to have 20% renewable energy in the european energy mix by 2020 and we want this approach to be included in the second energy action plan 2010-2014, which we would like to see approved during the spanish presidency.
all these projects have a very clear objective: diversify the various sources of energy, diversify the suppliers, diversify the different channels through which energy is distributed.
they are certainly part of the strategy towards a europe with a real common energy market, which it does not have at the moment.
all of this is necessary to have that market and to have that energy security which is the basis of all of this.
that employability is therefore based on the specialisation and training of workers and, of course, on a green economy, a low-carbon economy, from the point of view of the contents of which we have spoken initially.
it is therefore a key element of the strategy for sustainable development and the creation of quality jobs, a central, main objective of the spanish presidency and of europe as a whole.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
european citizens expect immediate solutions to the fundamental challenges of today: demographic change, climate change, the economic and financial crisis.
the european union must invest as a priority in creating and maintaining jobs, in education, health, agriculture and transport and energy infrastructure.
the union needs a sustainable energy strategy and modern, safe and efficient transport infrastructure.
we need to invest in energy efficiency measures for both homes and industrial upgrades, potentially creating over two million new jobs by 2020. the reduction of emissions also means modernising industrial plants within the european union, not relocating european industry to third countries.
what needs to change is the economic model itself, which needs to be based more on innovation, clean energy and attention to the health of people.
we can't have a performing economy if we don't have motivated workers, and we can't have a sustainable economy if we only support environmental protection halfway.
in these circumstances, strategy 2020, which is intended to be a continuation of the lisbon strategy, must create the conditions for sustainable growth and fiscal consolidation.
we need to prioritise the strategy we are launching so that the reforms that eu 2020 will generate are sustainable in the medium and long term.
this approach will ensure a healthy economic environment for private actors.
the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon is giving the european union more competence in the field of energy policy.
i believe this is an area where, if member states work together, europe can ensure secure, cheaper and more efficient energy for its citizens.
last year we adopted a third energy package which aims to ensure a more competitive and efficient energy market.
a regulation on security of gas supplies is currently on the table in parliament and tomorrow’s vote on the regulation on notification of investments in energy infrastructure will contribute to making the market more transparent and more predictable.
in this context, i think it would be a pity to waste the opportunity this new instrument offers, by not applying the correct legal basis provided by the new article 194 of the lisbon treaty.
this regulation is not only a tool for collecting information; it can also give an overall picture of investments in energy infrastructure as a basis for policymaking.
on the substance now; i have said this before to mr barroso and i will say it again to you, commissioner ortega, europe is standing at a turning point and our priority now should be more than ever to support our companies and create a positive environment for competitiveness.
we therefore need strong policies and especially a stronger reliable energy policy.
the aim in the end is to ensure secure and cheap energy for both our citizens and our companies.
i challenge anyone to find the legal basis in the treaties that would allow extra-territoriality in energy policy.
- the proposal for a regulation (com (87) 560 final) on the common organization of the market in bananas; the gas crisis at the beginning of last year showed the importance of europe having an energy infrastructure that not only supports the functioning of the internal market but also allows solidarity between member states and the regions affected in the event of a crisis.
our proposal aims to extend the scope of the regulation, particularly in the areas of renewable energy and ccs.
the commission therefore proposes, firstly, to publish a report every two years on the structural development of energy infrastructure.
the way in which these are addressed will be the subject of specific energy policy initiatives.
this article is both an opportunity and an obligation for all of us - parliament, council and commission - to shape the eu's energy policy in close cooperation, that is, above all with the european parliament.
as the new commissioner for energy, i therefore want to involve this house as early and as fully as possible in all future policy measures.
the legal act to which today's debate refers, however, concerns only the collection and analysis of information in the energy sector and is therefore based, in the commission's view, on articles 337 and 187 euratom.
the new regulation is a very important legislative instrument for the european union's energy market.
this analysis should complement national and regional strategies and contribute to strengthening energy security by identifying potential gaps and risks in infrastructure and investment, with a view to ensuring a balance between energy demand and supply.
i think the commission's proposal includes some ambiguities which i think have been resolved by the amendments tabled, such as the issue of the publication of energy data sent by the member states, this data must be aggregated at national and regional level.
another problem is to clarify what is meant by a 'specific body', that is a body responsible for preparing and adopting multiannual plans for the development and investment of energy infrastructure at community level, the problem of avoiding duplication of the collection of these data and the problem of determining when a particular project must be reported, that is after the authorities have received the application for a building permit.
another particularly important aspect is the issue of monitoring in third countries of european investments that have an impact on the european energy market.
i believe that investments in third countries, both governmental and those made by national companies, which have a significant effect on the energy market, should be reported under this regulation.
the lisbon treaty strengthens the european union's powers in the field of energy policy.
the union's energy security and solidarity between member states in energy crises are essential for the union's energy policy.
this regulation establishes a community framework for the notification to the commission of data and information on investment projects in energy infrastructure in the fields of oil, gas, electricity, biofuels and projects for the geological storage of carbon emitted in the energy sector.
this will enable the commission to come up with proposals for better use of existing capacities and for identifying solutions in energy crisis situations.
the regulation should not significantly burden the administrative burden on energy companies.
however, i believe that this regulation should also apply to european companies investing in energy infrastructure projects in third countries and which are directly linked to or have a significant impact on the energy networks of one or more member states.
i would like to stress a few points about the importance of investing in infrastructure: the continuous development of energy infrastructure is the only way to cope with a changing society.
the development of existing networks and investment in new types of networks adapted to innovative energy resources is a key point to facilitate access to new energy for both the population and industry.
regional energy cooperation is currently de facto in place, but needs to be strengthened by clear rules.
in conclusion, i would like to say that investments, ict solutions in the energy sector are the key to developing an energy efficient, low carbon economy.
this is important in cases where there is only one undertaking active in the energy sector at national level.
the new infrastructure and solidarity instrument to be developed, the follow-up instrument to the eu financial contribution to the trans-european energy networks, will provide an opportunity for this, as will the commission's progress reports on the implementation of the recovery programme for energy projects.
finally, i would like to say to my colleague lena ek that i only hope the aggregated data that we have as a result of this regulation will help us to become smarter in energy issues and be in our general interest.
the principle of solidarity must be at the heart of the european union's energy policy.
working together, member states can ensure a safer, cheaper and more efficient supply of energy resources to citizens and businesses.
it is very important that the european union has an energy infrastructure that allows member states to work together to reduce problems that arise during energy crises.
this regulation will provide the european commission with information on energy structures so that it can have an overview.
data on both oil and gas infrastructure and renewable energy are included.
after collecting this information, the shortcomings of the european energy system can be identified and then measures can be proposed to correct them.
it is also important to monitor those european investments in third countries that have a major impact on the eu energy market.
in the context of the new energy policy aimed at securing supply, mitigating climate change and ensuring competitiveness, investment in energy infrastructure plays a key role.
new policy requirements, such as fuel mix targets, will lead to changes in member states' policies so that they benefit from new and modernised energy infrastructure.
the commission proposal aims to review the current system for informing about investment projects in the energy sector: it aims to collect adequate information on planned investments, to enable the commission to monitor the infrastructure situation and anticipate possible problems.
it is therefore important to put a stronger focus on the environmental impact of projects in order to provide additional guarantees and incentives for the construction and decommissioning of energy infrastructure in a sustainable manner and with appropriate environmental protection.
i also support the idea that actions should be taken to ensure budgetary sustainability in the coming years, while reaffirming the importance of developing a budgetary policy that guarantees greater rigour.
- i voted in favour of this report because it brings some improvements to the current system, which will allow better reporting of information on investment projects in energy infrastructure in the community.
the need to optimise the reporting system comes from the changing energy context, as energy interdependence between countries has increased, we have an internal market, so it has become necessary to have tools at european level to make decisions that affect the energy sector.
i support the change of the legal basis proposed by the commission, so that the regulation is based on article 194 of the treaty of lisbon, in order to strengthen the role that the union institutions can play in the field of energy policy, in particular in the functioning of the energy market, the security of resources, the promotion of energy efficiency and the development of new forms of renewable energy, and in the interconnection of energy networks.
− a coherent energy policy at european level cannot exist in the absence of accurate and complete reporting by the 27 member states on energy investments made in their respective territories.
europe's energy security is an important issue but the commission must be aware that information received from individual countries cannot be made public, especially as it is purely commercial.
the biennial reporting of energy investment projects will enable the european commission to prepare a periodic analysis to anticipate the further development of the european union's energy system and thus to intervene in time if any gaps or problems arise.
a mechanism needs to be found to comply with the reporting requirements of the european commission, as the provisions of the previous regulation on informing the commission of investment projects in energy infrastructure within the european community have not been complied with by all member states.
− this proposal for a regulation aims to ensure that the commission is kept informed correctly and regularly about investment projects in eu energy infrastructure, so that it can fulfil its tasks, in particular those related to its contribution to european energy policy.
the repealed regulation is considered obsolete because it does not reflect the important changes that have taken place since 1996 in the energy field (the enlargement of the european union and issues related to security of energy supply, renewable energy sources, climate change policy, the new eu role in the energy field in the context of the lisbon treaty).
i voted for this report because there is a need to update european legislation in all areas, and especially in energy.
ukraine needs to regain the trust of the business community and the international community to overcome the economic recession, which has been exacerbated by an unstable political climate.
we stressed the importance of concluding additional agreements in the energy field to guarantee the security of energy supply.
the new president of ukraine won the election with a programme to guarantee the rights of minorities, and the eu must support the effective and sustainable implementation of this programme.
at eu level, when developing strategies on the economic crisis and the impact of climate change, the european commission must also take into account the impact on women.
overfishing, illegal fishing, pollution, climate change, all of these are factors that threaten marine ecosystems.
therefore, the pursuit of quality aquaculture in europe will bring economic benefits and at the same time environmental benefits.
it is essential to maintain the right balance between economic growth, the fishing tradition of some regional communities and best fishing practices, and, most importantly, to understand that sustainable and economically efficient aquaculture in the long term depends first and foremost on how environmentally friendly we are.
their overcapacity, almost eight years after the world summit on sustainable development, and the continuing decline in fish stocks are further reasons for a substantial reform of the common fisheries policy.
a rethinking of the common fisheries policy is in the interest of each member state so that the main objective of the 2012 summit to achieve the maximum sustainable yield of fish stocks by 2015 can be achieved and the european community is no longer obliged to import half of its fish needs from other markets.
europe needs a strong, common approach to fisheries management, including both the continental and market dimension of the sector and the catch and aquaculture sector, in line with the new integrated maritime policy of the european union and its interest in sustainable growth in coastal regions.
on the contrary, it has contributed to a variety of problems which continue to have economic, social and environmental impacts.
only two weeks ago, this house voted in favour of suspending international trade in bluefin tuna because of the critically low stocks – a situation which is yet another sign that our current levels of fishing are unsustainable and have serious consequences for biodiversity and the future of the fishing sector.
this should lead to better management of stocks and have a positive effect on the marine environment.
it is vital that we act to ensure that the european union implements a truly sustainable fishing policy in order to protect stocks, the environment, and european jobs in the long term.
i believe that the eco-efficient economy and the construction of energy-efficient buildings can contribute to the economic recovery of the eu.
this agreement creates a mechanism to ensure cooperation between the contracting parties in the event of pollution accidents and obliges them to establish and implement their own emergency structures and plans.
the network is made up of the helsinki convention, the bonn agreement, the barcelona convention and, in this case, the lisbon agreement, each covering different parts of the sea around eu countries and aiming at the individual or collective intervention of the contracting parties in cases of pollution or threat of pollution of the seas or coasts, to protect the environment and the health of citizens.
however, we saw something very new in copenhagen: whereas in the past the eu often had only a few partners when going into international negotiations and trying to get things done, this time leaders representing more than 80% of global emissions in copenhagen promised that, from now on, they would also be on track.
to mrs carvalho: yes, i agree very much that we should prepare both technically and politically, and that we should be better at doing so, not least so that, when we come to the negotiating table, we do not just say what we want and then, when the rest of the world disagrees with us, we do not really know what to do because we have expended all our energy trying to come together on a very firm and detailed formulated position.
the eu has every chance of becoming the leader in reducing co2 emissions.
the copenhagen summit may have left many disappointed because of the reluctance of some participants to commit to clear targets for preventing climate change.
climate change is a certainty, just as it is a certainty that pollution is accelerating it.
the eu's ambitions to set an example in pollution reduction actions are thus justified.
the benefits are not just the immediate benefit of a cleaner environment.
i welcome the important place given to climate change in the commission's communication - europe 2020 - a european strategy for smart, green and inclusive growth.
first, that an important tool is investing in greener, lower-carbon technologies.
these investments will protect the environment, but at the same time create new business opportunities and new jobs.
the commission's request that member states use the structural funds to invest in energy-efficient public buildings is certainly part of the solution, but i think we need to give at least equal attention to the residential sector, namely the formerly built collective housing buildings which are the major energy consumers in some member states, especially in the east.
the eu has notified its wish to be associated to the agreement and has presented, for information, a unilateral commitment to reduce the eu's overall emissions by 20% compared to 1990 levels and, in a conditional offer, to increase this reduction percentage to 30% if other major emitters agree to contribute in an appropriate proportion to the overall reduction effort.
i call on the high representative and commissioner for climate change to urgently present a climate diplomacy strategy and for the eu and the mou to include climate change policies in all bilateral and multilateral strategic partnerships to achieve the major goal.
strategic partnerships to combat climate change must include ngos and civil society.
the european union needs to continue to implement its emission trading scheme and other initiatives, such as energy reductions in buildings.
we need to meet our emissions targets and show how we can all benefit from energy savings.
the process of sustainable development must start with a generation of children who have access to education, health care and all the opportunities enjoyed by children in the majority population.
so i ask you: what steps are you taking to really reform long-term pension systems for the benefit of european citizens, in a sustainable way?
i will ask my colleague, mr potočnik, who is responsible for the environment, to give you a written answer on how this directive on floods is being applied or not.
that is why, commissioner, i hope that we will be able to build together a strategy for the sustainable development of rail transport, so that we can provide both safe and high-quality services and jobs for the trained staff in the rail transport sector.
an efficient external action service, a vibrant neighbourhood policy, a visionary enlargement policy, well-structured partnerships with the strategic players, both traditional and emerging, an effective strategy in coping with the global challenges, namely energy security, non-proliferation, migration, transnational organised crime, transnational expression of poverty, cultural conflicts and so on.
the european commission last week announced funding for 43 major energy projects, including four in romania.
in the black sea region, it is essential to continue the european objective of ensuring the eu's energy security.
in the current crisis situation in europe, the private environment of small and medium-sized enterprises (including micro-enterprises) must be encouraged, and seen in this unfortunate context also as an area for absorbing the workforce laid off by the state or private-corporate sector.
at the same time, such a strategy should support the development of production methods that respect the environment and human health.
objectives such as 'a social market economy' and 'a budget reflecting smart, inclusive and sustainable growth' are key to overcoming the effects of the economic crisis.
i also believe that european industry should build on its pioneering role in the sustainable economy and green mobility technologies by exploiting its export potential.
this reduces resource dependency and facilitates the achievement of the necessary 20-20-20 climate change targets.
moreover, i believe that iceland's accession to the union can contribute, firstly, to the diversification of europe's energy resources and, secondly, to the establishment of a multilateral governance in this area, which is attracting more and more interests and which can give rise, as has been shown in previous interventions, to conflicts.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the acquis in the field of the environment and the environment protection.
the arctic, like the antarctic, is particularly vulnerable to climate change.
moreover, its stability is a key to the global climate system.
as a promoter of the fight against climate change, the european union must take a firm stance on the arctic region.
i want to assure members of the house that preserving the environment and dialogue with the relevant populations – indigenous and non-indigenous – are paramount to the approach that we want to take.
we want to make clear in all international discussions that arctic resources should only be accessed and exploited when we have the highest environmental and safety standards and when they are fully respected.
for my part i think we have much to contribute, from our diplomacy on environment to our climate change policies; from our extensive arctic research programmes to our policy supporting indigenous policies worldwide.
i think it is possible to find a proper balance between arctic protection and preservation, on the one hand, and the sustainable use of its resources on the other, and we must ensure that we do that properly.
arctic issues, from the effects of global warming to resource exploitation and navigation, have received increasing attention in recent times.
i believe that the european strategy in this area must focus on protecting and conserving the area, promoting sustainable exploitation of resources in the context of multilateral governance of the region and, above all, involving the people of this area in all these efforts.
the emergence of new waterways also requires the establishment of much stricter safety and environmental standards.
it considers that the strategic policy areas to be included in this strategy are energy, the environment, nature protection, transport, infrastructure, innovation, cultural and artistic activities, sustainable economic development, tourism, food security, the economy, cooperation in relation to small and mediumsized enterprises, research and development, migration, sport, education, employment, health, social affairs and other aspects which are developed in a very broad and very ambitious way in this document.
achieving the eu's climate targets depends on developing a strategy for a gradual transition to low-carbon industry and the use of sustainable energy.
new technologies can reduce energy consumption in buildings by up to 17% and carbon emissions from transport by up to 27%, and the introduction of smart metering could reduce energy consumption by up to 10%.
a common methodology for measuring energy consumption and carbon emissions is needed to optimise public and private energy consumption.
i would like to ask whether the commission currently intends to make available additional resources from the union budget to encourage smes to develop low-carbon, sustainable energy production technologies.
investments in the development of low-carbon technologies will help the union overcome the economic crisis and can create around 2,7 million jobs by 2020. the european union must invest in european initiatives for renewable energy and its integration into the european electricity grid, in biofuels and in green transport.
fast results can be achieved through investments in smart cities and in the energy efficiency of buildings, especially homes.
i call on the commission and the member states to increase the budgets allocated to energy efficiency in housing and, in the mid-term review of the use of the structural funds, to take the necessary measures to ensure better absorption of the 4% erdf share for energy efficiency in housing.
european agriculture is often singled out as a major source of global warming.
of course, this perception is not entirely correct, but we cannot ignore the contribution that agriculture can make to reducing carbon dioxide emissions.
carbon storage, biomass, and investments in reducing fertilizer use are just a few examples of how agriculture is affected by this problem.
that is why, in the context of the discussions on investments in low-carbon technologies, i believe that agriculture must be among the priorities and not be completely neglected, as has happened, for example, in another european strategy - i am referring to the eu 2020 strategy.
one of the main objectives of the european union is to develop a low-carbon economy.
it is aimed that by 2020 20% of all energy produced will be based on renewable sources.
according to some studies, dobrogea region in southeastern romania is the second area of wind energy potential in europe, after northern germany.
the largest onshore wind farm in europe is currently being developed here, which will have 240 wind turbines and produce 600 mw of renewable energy.
the project is important for romania's energy security as it will reduce the import of energy resources.
the fact that we are having a debate in the european parliament today on investments in low-carbon technologies shows that the european union wants to assert its leadership role in reducing and improving energy consumption and in ensuring a healthy environment.
i believe our role now is to encourage areas such as research and innovation to identify solutions that will lay the foundations for a sustainable european energy system.
i believe it is essential to pay attention to the specific potential of green energy at regional and local level.
the region of romania from which they come has a significant geothermal energy potential which is currently under-exploited.
we are now seeing the consequences of the irresponsible actions of the past and we are facing a new challenge: tackling the effects of climate change.
− the eu has committed itself to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20%, to reducing energy consumption by 20% and to producing at least 20% of its energy from renewable sources by 2020. the eu also aims to set a global example in conserving resources and protecting the environment.
investing in low-carbon energy technologies is key to meeting the proposed 2020 targets, which are not as far away as they seem.
investments in the development of low-carbon energy sources will deliver results in the medium and long term with a positive impact across the union.
recently, due to climate change, natural disasters have become more frequent, so we need to make sure that the european union is prepared to respond as quickly and effectively as possible.
one of the major areas of development and stability in the union, namely infrastructure, both transport and energy, is completely lacking.
developing transport and energy infrastructure in the european union and aligning it with neighbouring countries can be a powerful driver for sustainable growth and stable jobs, and can provide the european union with much-needed security in both energy and transport.
the sustainable development of the european economy must be a priority.
the commission's new strategy for the next 10 years has five lines of action: creating new jobs, fighting poverty, reducing school drop-outs, investing in research and development and reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
romania supports the 20-20-20 target of reducing carbon emissions by 20%, increasing the share of energy from renewable resources by 20% and increasing energy efficiency by 20%.
in this period of economic and social crisis, coupled with the climate crisis, the eu has set out a new strategy for the next 10 years.
developing research and innovation must become a priority to combat the effects of climate change, to create green, smart jobs.
the objectives set must therefore be binding in order to ensure sustainable growth, the development of a more inclusive labour market and decent living conditions for all citizens.
this can only be achieved through substantial investment in economic and social development, transport and energy infrastructure, agriculture, research, education and health.
these priorities should cover transport infrastructure, energy efficiency, industrial policy and research, agriculture, education and health.
finally, i would like to thank the european commission for the speed with which it approved the financing of four energy projects in which romania is also involved.
the latter is essential if the eu is to become a sustainable and competitive economy.
consumers are also increasingly aware of agriculture's contribution to sustainability, climate change, food security, biodiversity, animal welfare and water scarcity.
i believe that there is a need for less automation and uniformity in the pact, for an approach that takes account of the circumstances of each member state, where the emphasis is much more on the long-term sustainability of public finances and less on the public deficit.
the future eu 2020 strategy must take into account policies on job creation and sustainable development, so as to prevent the triggering of new economic crises.
strengthening public finances is a key condition for ensuring sustainable economic growth.
the union needs to invest mainly in research and in transport and energy infrastructure if it is to remain globally competitive.
through geographical indications, agricultural products gain more credibility and visibility in the eyes of consumers, while ensuring a competitive environment for producers.
− i voted for this report because the strengthening of quality policy at eu level is an important incentive for european agricultural producers to step up their efforts in terms of quality, food safety and environmental protection.
but at the same time, better information is needed for citizens through appropriate information campaigns and the promotion of voluntary labels on other production methods that respect the environment and animals, such as 'integrated production', 'pastoral farming' and 'mountain agriculture'.
developing countries are also the most affected by the effects of climate change.
we therefore call on the commission and the member states to support all actions to combat climate change and to accelerate, in this context, the transfer of relevant technologies to developing countries.
among the topics covered, particular attention was paid to the economic strategy 'europe 2020' and to preparations for international negotiations on climate change.
in this area, as in setting climate change targets, realistic targets need to be set.
nevertheless, i welcome the setup of the task force which i hope will come with more ambitious proposals so that the economic and fiscal sustainability of the eurozone is effectively ensured in the future.
the european council conclusions of 25-26 march 2010 clearly show the important ambitions of the member states for the period up to 2020. i particularly noted the consistent targets on increasing investment in research and development and reducing emissions, which are backed by figures and commitments.
structural reforms and the restoration of macroeconomic stability by redirecting budgetary resources towards sustainable growth are more relevant than direct aid.
increasing employment, increasing competitiveness and productivity, and highly productive investment in research and innovation are the main elements for halting the downturn and rebooting sustainable growth, the key objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
the eu 2020 strategy must be based on broad coordination of economic and environmental policies to generate eco-efficient growth and increased employment.
i welcome the fact that at the european council of 25-26 march the union firmly committed itself for the first time to increase energy efficiency by 20% by 2020 and reaffirmed its commitment to reduce emissions by 20% compared to 1990 levels.
the union must invest in education, research and an ambitious and sustainable industrial policy to remain globally competitive.
the eu also needs to invest in health, agriculture, transport and energy infrastructure.
this macroeconomic indicator neglects product quality, does not measure sustainable economic growth, and excludes, among other things, subsistence and suburban economies, domestic work, and volunteering.
the outcome of this committee's work, summarised in the stiglitz report, proposes improving the national statistical system, better determining the quality of life and including sustainable development in the calculation of the index of economic and social progress.
in this context, i believe that we need to have a coordinated system for measuring the quality of life, the sustainability of economic growth and, last but not least, social disparities throughout the european union.
in this way, the european union would make it its duty to support the sustainable development of the air transport sector in these less-favoured countries as well.
a terrorist threat, a pilot error, a technical malfunction, a misunderstanding between the pilot and the control tower, unforeseen atmospheric conditions, all these aspects must be foreseen and strict measures must be taken to enforce the regulations both in letter and spirit.
this is illustrated, for instance, in the interconnection between economic, social, environmental and political factors in the case of the river danube and the black sea.
last but not least, i believe it is important to ensure a sustainable system for the financing and development of the europeana project.
it is well known that animal health implies animal welfare, a certain minimum biological comfort, without which full expression of vitality, including natural behaviour, appropriate to changes in the environment is not possible.
climate change is one of the most serious environmental, social and economic threats.
the other aspect must be a forward-looking plan to eliminate the causes that lead to climate change by promoting a low-carbon global economy, coupled with a promotion of energy security.
the european union must maintain its leadership in the fight against climate change, which must not be put in second place because of the current economic difficulties.
the agricultural sector generates a significant share of total carbon dioxide emissions and we therefore draw attention to the need to improve energy efficiency in this area.
i ask the commission to continue to examine the link between high food prices and increasing energy prices, particularly for used fuels.
i would like to remind you that incentives for sustainable energy crops should not jeopardize food production.
we call on the commission and the member states to promote research and development to prevent and enable adaptation to climate change.
− mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr le foll, for this very important report on agriculture and climate change.
the fight against climate change is an absolute priority globally.
the eu is also making a huge contribution and also the agricultural sector already contributes in the fight against climate change.
we have a policy that limits greenhouse gas emissions.
agriculture also provides renewable energy sources in better using the whole cycle and all the products that come from agriculture.
also, eu agriculture policy is working to optimise a carbon sink function of agricultural soils.
since the 1992 reform, significant progress has been made in integration of all environmental considerations into the common agriculture policy.
the recent ‘health check’ reform represented a further step in this direction with specific emphasis on climate change mitigation and adaptation.
the current common agriculture policy framework provides a balanced approach between binding requirements enforced through cross-compliance, which sets the limits on some farming practices, and positive incentives for climate-friendly farming practices provided by rural development.
the commission fully shares the view that climate change now needs to be addressed globally and it is important that others follow our example also.
we need, on the one hand, to further help eu agriculture to contribute to mitigating climate change by reducing its own greenhouse gas emissions, enhancing co2 sequestration in soils and making use of renewable energies from other sources, and on the other, to be more productive, to be more efficient at providing food supplies, in this way demonstrating that one can achieve both goals: food security on the one side, environmental sustainability on the other side.
in the preparation now of the common agricultural policy for post 2013, and in the light of the results of the ongoing negotiations on climate change, the commission will examine ways to further and better integrate adaptation and mitigation objectives in the common agriculture policy instruments.
climate change is directly affecting agriculture.
women are among the most vulnerable to climate change, partly because in many countries they make up the majority of the agricultural workforce, and partly because they do not have access to the same income opportunities as men.
the agriculture of the millennium we have entered requires a human activity that must respond to major demands: ensuring food security and safety for the global population (rising to 9 billion in 2050), harmonious correlation of measures to increase the quantity and quality of agricultural production for food with the requirements of developing biofuel production while protecting ecosystems and decoupling economic growth from environmental degradation.
i believe that a new strategy needs to be adopted, based on a reorientation towards sustainable agricultural production models, which requires compensatory aid to cover the additional costs linked to these objectives (e.g.
local eco-certification contracts), the creation of 'green' jobs and the integration of women into the labour market (maintenance of rural areas, conservation of biodiversity, greenhouses for vegetables and flowers).
the overall objective of the natural handicap payments is to ensure continued land use and, through agricultural land management, maintain the countryside as well as to promote sustainable farming systems.
the european council of 25/26 march 2010 set for the first time an eu target of 20% energy efficiency by 2020. i did not find this objective in the commission's work programme, although initiatives are needed in this area which can target both european households and businesses.
as the high representative, mrs ashton, has said, canada is one of the european union's oldest partners and this year's summit is important for continuing and strengthening this close cooperation in all areas: economic, trade, climate change, military.
in the current economic and climate context, i must stress the need for close collaboration to identify alternatives to traditional sources of energy production that respect the specificities of each country, both the european union and canada, and are committed to the development and use of low-carbon technology.
at the same time, cooperation in the field of energy-climate and maritime affairs in the arctic should also be promoted.
i am referring to the environment, global warming, acta, ceta, the banking sector, the stabilisation of financial and economic markets, the sites conference and the eu-canada pnr agreement.
i therefore ask the commission to ensure effective communication with the european parliament in order to achieve sustainable results.
these changes are in line with the europe 2020 strategy, which encourages job creation and supports investments to protect the environment.
as regards the research framework programme, we are concerned that the current programme does not meet the needs of a modern research environment and we believe that further modernisation and simplification are essential for the future framework programme.
we must agree that the ban on cyanide in mining should become a priority in the environmental problem in romania, but also in europe.
with more than 25 major accidents and spills worldwide between 1998 and 2006, it is becoming increasingly clear that cyanide poses a continuing environmental hazard for decades to come.
moreover, the difficulty of managing the transport, storage and use of cyanide, associated with the deficiencies in the operation and maintenance of the settling ponds, as well as bad weather can lead to explosive situations, devastating the environment.
in november 2005, members of the european parliament and member states adopted the so-called mining waste directive.
some of the shortcomings of the directive become apparent when we consider that, for example, it does not deal with emissions of cyanide into the air.
there is also no european air quality legislation for such emissions.
technical rules for the use and neutralisation of cyanide have led to the minimisation of risks to the environment and human health.
the environmental risks arising from the alternative use of cyanide-like agents should also be considered in the application of the precautionary principle.
the risk of pollution is a matter for experts, and when there is a risk of pollution, it is the responsibility of political leaders to protect the interests of citizens.
at this point, the issue goes beyond environmental considerations, since pollution can endanger the health of the population, which is contrary to the right of eu citizens to a high level of health protection (article 35 of the charter).
the unconditional ban on this technology and its replacement by technologies based on substances with lower environmental risks but extremely costly and low yields means that the country in question will virtually give up the production of these metals, with the associated economic and social effects.
one chemical that gets out of control and into the environment causes serious problems, but we have over 10 million chemicals.
all chemicals must be used in accordance with 2010 environmental protection technologies and standards.
i think it uses the environment as a screen and it is based on the mass fears so fashionable nowadays.
the directive that we have very recently put in place includes a lot of limitations, requirements, restrictions and demands, in order to provide maximum protection as regards the effects on the environment and human health.
given the very stringent requirements of the mining waste directive and the absence of adequate alternatives today, a general ban on cyanide use for gold extraction does not, for the moment, seem appropriate.
on january 30, 2000, the dam of the waste settling pond owned by the company aurul in baia mare, romania, ruptured, allowing the discharge of about 100,000 cubic meters of contaminated water containing 100 tons of cyanide as well as heavy metals.
we must not forget the details of this disaster, which has become an international symbol of pollution.
the destruction of the environment, the disappearance of the village, the displacement of the inhabitants, the churches and cemeteries, the condemnation of precious relics dating back to the roman and pre-roman periods.
it is absolutely necessary to ban the use of cyanide in mining altogether in the eu to prevent human and environmental tragedies.
first, the obligation on member states to implement a cash accounting scheme for smes (defined at european level as firms with a turnover of less than €2,000,000) will be a welcome stimulus for the business environment.
i voted for this report because i believe that the proposal will ensure, once adopted, a high level of safety for transportable pressure equipment and its users, and that correct implementation at member state level will ensure increased protection of the environment and the health of citizens.
the ageing of the population and the special mobility needs of the elderly, social migration, climate change are just some of the elements that require transport policy to be properly designed.
as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a council recommendation on measures to combat neurodegenerative diseases, in particular alzheimer's disease, through joint programming of research activities, i support the invitation by the conference of presidents of the european commission to submit a new proposal on these dossiers, so that parliament can be consulted in an appropriate manner in its institutional role, including that conferred by the provisions of the new treaty.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the use of the internet in the context of the european year of the environment.
− the european union is the world's largest importer of agricultural products, and encouraging domestic production with minimal impact on climate change is healthy.
the conclusions of the report, which was debated in the european parliament on wednesday, show that imports of agricultural products from third countries have a much greater negative impact on the environment than domestic production, which is subject to stricter rules to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, which are conducive to climate change.
these policies must be combined with ambitious targets to reduce carbon dioxide emissions with a negative impact on the environment, because we are in a vicious circle: according to experts, agriculture without considering the impact on the environment will cause global warming, which will lead to major difficulties in farming in the long term.
− i voted for this report because i believe that agriculture is a productive sector that is affected by the consequences of climate change and the pressure exerted by it, but which is also directly linked to the objectives of mitigating the effects of climate change, either by contributing to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, conserving and ensuring the proper management of water resources, or by stimulating the production and decentralisation of renewable sustainable energy sources.
750,000 jobs in renewable energy in the agricultural sector are expected to be created by 2020).
the amendment i am referring to is that the delimitation of areas with natural handicaps, in order to be relevant, should be based on homogeneous ecological territories and not on lau 2, as is the case at present.
i believe that the way out of the economic crisis depends to a large extent on its ability to facilitate the widespread and effective application of information and communication technologies in the business environment.
while significant progress has been made in developing bilateral relations between the eu and latin america over the past decade, there is still more to be done, with the ultimate objective of the partnership being the creation in 2015 of a euro-latin american area of comprehensive interregional cooperation in the political, economic, commercial, social and cultural fields, guaranteeing the sustainable development of both regions.
i also believe that the fight against climate change, which affects the poorest people in the world the most, must become the key element of the eu-latin america strategy, with both sides having to make considerable efforts to reach a common negotiating position in the debates leading up to the united nations climate change conference, which will take place at the end of the year in mexico.
given the current economic and climate context, i must stress the need for close collaboration to identify alternatives to traditional energy sources that respect the specificities of each country, as both the eu and canada are committed to the development and use of low-carbon technologies.
at the same time, cooperation in the field of energy, climate and maritime affairs in the arctic must be promoted.
before making a decision, we must consider all the aspects involved: environmental protection, job creation, attracting investment, and the lack of alternatives to mining for the population of the entire area.
i voted against the motion for a resolution on a number of grounds: we cannot ask the european commission to ban cyanide-based gold mining technology for some member states, such as romania, which has significant, untapped resources; the rosia montana project deserves support for its economic and social effects and in full agreement with the restrictions on the protection of the environment and archaeological sites.
romania, as a member state, has the right to exploit its deposits under safe environmental conditions, but also with economic and social results in proportion to the natural results it has.
- there are times when ecological welfare, heritage protection and the welfare of people in general succeed in prevailing even over economic and partisan interests.
i do, however, support the idea of encouraging the industrial conversion of areas where cyanide mining has been banned, through appropriate financial support for clean industrial sectors, renewable energy and tourism.
there are technologies in economic activity that are harmful to human health or the environment.
- i voted against this resolution because the 2006 directive, which is in force, provides maximum protection for the environment and human health with regard to the use of cyanides in the mining industry.
in view of the strict provisions of the mining waste directive and the absence of viable alternatives, a general ban on the use of cyanide in gold mining is not necessary.
sustainable economic growth also requires massive and coherent investment in the transport sector.
i therefore invite the european commission and the council to take into account, when finalising the eu 2020 strategy, the following highly relevant aspects in the field of transport: promoting research, development and innovation to achieve so-called green transport; strengthening the european objective of decarbonising transport through the use of alternative resources, electric cars, its, intelligent traffic management, including in the aviation sector; strengthening coordination in the field of infrastructure to strengthen the protection of the environment, the social conditions of workers and the safety and security of passengers.
in specific areas, i would like to stress the following imperatives: urgent implementation of the single european sky in aviation; urgent achievement of interoperability in the railway sector; extension and improvement of road infrastructure and safety of european roads in road transport; achievement of convenience in inland ports and extension of motorways of the sea in maritime and inland waterway transport; urgent sustainable development of urban mobility.
the coordinated development of the transport sector is the key to sustainable development, the preservation and creation of stable jobs.
investments in energy infrastructure, energy efficiency and renewable energy will also reduce the eu's energy dependence and generate some 2.7 million new jobs by 2030. however, instead of investing in the smart cities initiative, we find that over €150 million of the european economic recovery plan has gone unspent.
last but not least, the european union needs to invest in research and in the sustainable development of european industry.
achieving economic, social and territorial cohesion involves more than just smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
i believe that the cap must provide immediate responses to the effects of the economic crisis on agricultural enterprises, such as farmers' lack of access to credit, constraints on agricultural incomes and rising unemployment in rural areas; it must continue to provide solutions to the threat of land abandonment, depopulation of rural areas and the ageing of the rural population in the european union, in order to ensure the long-term sustainability of rural communities in the union.
i would like to mention that in the light of these challenges, the cap post-2013 must send strong signals and respond to the concerns of both the rural community and society at large through a strong, sustainable, well-funded, credible and multifunctional food policy.
i stress the urgent need to attract young generations to rural areas and to provide them with new and alternative economic opportunities to ensure a sustainable rural population and i believe that rural unemployment should be addressed by providing opportunities for diversification and new sources of income.
i consider that setting up the new energy targets will be a key factor in achieving a more resource efficient europe by 2020. i want to stress to the commission the fact that some member states will need special support in order to be able to develop and implement renewable technologies to achieve the 20% target of energy produced from renewable sources.
i emphasise the positive impact of supporting the digital agenda initiatives in the flagship initiatives for new skills and jobs and i would like to see the commission coming forward with concrete legislative proposals to address the development of on-line environment by creating facilities, both financial and administrative, to promote on-line businesses and e-commerce.
we all agree that to create a more competitive and sustainable economy, the union needs a highly skilled workforce capable of meeting current and future challenges.
road transport is responsible for 28% of pollutant emissions from non-ets sectors.
under existing legislation, car manufacturers must produce only vehicles with emissions below 120g co2/km by 2020 at the latest.
in the context of climate change, green vehicles are an effective way to reduce carbon emissions.
their development must, however, be included in a future sustainable mobility policy.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states.
the benefits of 'green cars' are significant: they help to combat climate change, reduce europe's dependence on oil and contribute to the europe 2020 goals.
the use of electric vehicles offers a number of major advantages for sustainable mobility.
we can talk about reducing carbon dioxide emissions and improving air quality, reducing our dependence on imported fossil fuels and increasing the efficiency of electric cars compared to other transport technologies.
globally, eu competitors are investing in research and development of new low-carbon technologies and launching programmes to shift to green road transport.
to enable european industry to remain globally competitive and to ensure that it plays a leading role in green technologies, the european union needs to create an appropriate framework for promoting innovative technologies, encouraging research and developing the infrastructure needed to support the transition to a resource-efficient and low-carbon economy.
the transition to a sustainable and energy-efficient transport system has become a priority for the eu in the context of climate change and volatile fuel prices.
to this end, member states need to coordinate so that a decision can be taken for european standardisation, for example, at the level of energy charging and storage systems, including smart grids and on-board integrated measurement and interoperability systems.
it is time for the eu to increase the competitiveness of the mobility industry by reducing development costs for manufacturers and by gradually reducing co2 emissions from road transport.
– i welcome the commission’s recent strategy on clean and energy-efficient vehicles, and especially the new focus on electric cars instead of biofuels as part of the shift to greener transport.
however, just as biofuels are controversial and not without problems, there are significant challenges with electric cars which must be overcome before they become a realistic option for european citizens, and before they deliver real environmental benefits.
the additional demand for electric power for transport must be met by low-carbon sources if these cars are to realise their full environmental potential.
this needs to be considered as part of the eu’s energy strategy as we move towards a low-carbon economy and reduced dependence on oil supplies from third countries.
if these key challenges can be overcome, we can look forward to low-carbon, low-pollutant transport and all the associated benefits to the environment and human health.
i have proposed a resolution to ban the use of cyanide in mining, because we have an obligation to take all safety precautions to protect people and the environment from environmental catastrophes.
if we are making historic commitments to reduce emissions, if we are setting the tone for the world on environmental protection, why not make a basic clean-up gesture and eliminate this harmful practice from the european union?
we believe that it is necessary to establish general conditions to make this sector sustainable and enable it to remain economically efficient and green.
i would like to welcome the conclusions of the european council of 25-26 march 2010, which for the first time clearly set a 20% increase in energy efficiency as a european union objective.
energy efficiency can be improved by the use of information and communication technologies in the field of buildings, by efficient metering systems and in the field of transport, by the implementation of intelligent transport systems at european level.
information and communication technology-based systems can reduce energy consumption in buildings by up to 17% and emissions from the transport sector by up to 27%.
i believe that in order to reduce energy consumption by 20% by 2020, electricity grids should become intelligent, with flexible, controlled power flows and based on the use of information and communication technology.
the third area we were asked to focus on is the fight against climate change.
last year we spent almost 17 billion on projects that directly contribute to reducing the volume of greenhouse gas emissions.
the commission also proposes that the 2 billion which were set aside be allocated to projects contributing to the fight against climate change.
the increased volumes targeted especially those areas which we feel – and i trust parliament shares this view – are a priority, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, energy and climate change, as well as investments in the convergence regions of the union which have been particularly hard hit by the economic slowdown.
it aims at reinforcing the focus of the external mandate on the key policy areas where the eib has a well-proven track record, especially climate change, social and economic infrastructure and local private sector development, but also at placing more emphasis on development aspects of eib financing.
the use of cyanide would have caused a colossal disaster, poisoning the environment, blowing up four mountains, destroying nine cemeteries and demolishing eight christian churches, and also wiping out 1,700 kilometers of roman galleys, wiping out the ruins of the roman fortress of alburnus maior, an archaeological treasure described by unesco as a unique cultural heritage in the world.
they will be able to stimulate european buyers by the power of their example, but also by facilities in infrastructure and by advantages in respect of various taxes such as parking or pollution.
− switching to smart metering can reduce energy consumption by up to 10% at european level because it would allow for the bidirectional transfer of information between network operators, energy suppliers and consumers.
analyses show that the intelligent use of ict can reduce energy consumption in buildings, which currently accounts for 40% of total energy consumption in europe, by up to 17%.
all of these figures translate into reducing carbon emissions from transportation alone by up to 27 percent.
even if they cannot be implemented at unitary level in the european union in the short term, it is important that all member states are aware of the alternative to using modern technologies to reduce carbon emissions, which is set with very ambitious targets in the europe 2020 agenda.
the construction and transport industries are among the major energy consumers that can hasten the implementation of modern technological systems.
similarly, the exploitation of natural resources can be made less environmentally aggressive and carbon-intensive with the help of new technologies.
− at the level of each member state, information and telecommunications technologies (ict) are ways of increasing energy efficiency, and provide new applications and technologies for improving the exploitation of natural resources, transforming production and industrial processes into an eco-efficient economy.
ict-based systems can reduce energy consumption in buildings - currently accounting for 40% of total energy consumed in europe - by up to 17% and carbon emissions from transport by up to 27%.
the european commission and the committee of the regions must urgently develop a 'practical guide for local and regional authorities' on improving energy performance through the innovative use of ict.
it will set out how authorities can exploit ict in their climate change plans and describe how cohesion funds can support business partnerships to create innovative ict applications, in order to encourage and support cities, municipalities in using ict to reduce emissions.
− i was rapporteur for the environment committee’s opinion for this report, and i am acutely aware of the potential for the ict sector to deliver considerable energy savings in the european union, particularly in buildings and the transport sector.
it perpetuates social and economic inequality and it reduces the capacity of ict to deliver wide-reaching benefits in terms of energy efficiency.
this would directly address the inequality and injustice created by the digital divide, and is the only way to ensure that the energy-efficient potential of ict is fully realised.
− europe is going through a period in which it must recognise the urgent urgency of taking action to reduce the impact of human activities on the climate.
the white paper on climate change is a step towards harmonising action at european level to reduce carbon emissions.
with the ambitious target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20 per cent by 2020, the european union needs to move much faster than it is doing now.
it would be sad if europe realised too late that climate change is affecting its ability to do agriculture as the main source of food for the continent's and the world's population.
therefore, actions to reduce the impact of human activities on the climate are key to the subsequent normality.
− in 2008, the european union committed itself to reducing energy consumption by 20% by 2020 and to having 20% of its energy come from renewable sources.
at the european council of 25-26 march 2010, union leaders set a common target of increasing energy efficiency by 20% by 2020. the building sector is responsible for 40% of total energy consumption and 35% of pollutant emissions.
improving the energy performance of buildings will have a significant impact on the lives of european citizens.
investments in energy efficiency improvements will lead to lower energy bills and the creation of 2.7 million jobs in the union by 2030. in november 2008, the commission presented a legislative proposal to reform directive 91/2002 on the energy performance of buildings.
by 31 december 2020, all new buildings must have a net energy consumption close to zero, and most of the energy must come from renewable sources.
for buildings with near net zero energy consumption, member states will define clear targets and action plans including supporting measures.
the energy performance of buildings undergoing major renovation or of the renovated parts thereof shall meet minimum energy performance requirements applicable to technical building systems and components that have a significant impact on the energy performance of the building.
provisions on the issuing and display of energy performance certificates.
inclusion of the energy performance indicator from the energy performance certificate of the building in the announcements for the sale or lease of the building or part of it.
consulting local authorities and supporting them in implementing the recommendations, introducing new provisions for local planners and architects to take into account the energy efficiency of buildings.
introduction of intelligent metering systems and active control systems such as automation, control and monitoring systems for energy saving.
there will be no common methodology but by 30 june 2011 the commission shall establish a comparative methodological framework for calculating the cost-optimal level and minimum energy performance requirements.
the energy performance of buildings directive will have a direct influence on new types of investment in the construction sector.
investments in new technologies aimed at reducing energy consumption will have a significant impact on the national and regional labour market and improve the energy security of the european union.
european citizens cannot afford to pay for the modernisation of energy systems on their own.
the commission should provide complementary support by establishing, by 2014, the energy efficiency fund, which could be co-financed by the european union, the european investment bank and the member states.
i encourage the european commission to continue developing the 'smart urban projects' initiative and to analyse the mechanisms in place in the member states with a view to disseminating best practice across the european union and sharing knowledge and technical assistance for the creation of new financial means to improve the energy efficiency of housing.
there is a great potential for energy savings in the building sector.
improving the energy performance of buildings is essential to achieving the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy.
energy certificates are needed primarily to inform buyers about the energy performance of homes.
romania has proposed to introduce energy certificates for real estate transactions as of this year, but the decision to approve the draft regulatory act has been postponed.
the main reasons were the insufficient number of energy auditors and the risk of price increases in old houses.
we agree on the importance of the building stock, the renovation of existing buildings and the construction of new buildings for our common goals of energy efficiency and reduction of co2 emissions.
in other areas, such as power stations, the energy mix in general or the automotive sector, you have relatively few players to talk to: energy companies or the 12 to 15 car manufacturing groups in europe.
the owners of the houses: tenants, users, the municipalities with their development plans, their urban development in general, the regional actors for the building laws, often the länder or the nation states, in short: no sector is as important as the building sector with the percentages of energy and climate that i have described, and no sector has so many millions of partners, vertically and horizontally, that need to be brought on board.
we want to apply our energy-saving measures not only to new buildings but also to renovation activities.
we are therefore ready to hold further discussions with interested members in july and september on this renewable energy and energy efficiency programme.
we are currently discussing with mr hahn how we can give regional programmes a little more energy-related focus in the current financial period - he expressly supports this idea - and how we can give more weight to the subject of energy and buildings in the next financial period with the next support programmes.
the priorities of energy, energy research, energy saving programmes for local actors and, in addition, infrastructure are all the more important.
it is only the beginning of a process of increasing energy efficiency in the building sector, a process in which the european parliament will be a consistent and ambitious partner and which will also require transparency in the adoption of delegated acts.
i believe that the member states and the commission should make good use of the mid-term review of the financial perspective, which takes place in 2010, to review operational programmes and allocate more funds to the energy efficiency of buildings.
member states may use a 4% erdf quota and, where they deem it appropriate, a reduced vat quota, but not less than 5%, for energy efficiency works in buildings.
i would stress that all the funds allocated to energy efficiency in buildings will be found in jobs and in taxes and fees paid at local, regional or national level, given the local nature of these works.
only if we increase the absorption of the 4% erdf share allocated to energy efficiency in buildings in the period 2010-2013 will we be able to ask for a significant increase in this share for the financial period 2014-2020; i suggest somewhere between 8 and 12%.
i believe that, especially in the context of planning for the financial period 2014-2020, energy efficiency should be at the top of our priorities, including with programmes dedicated to rural areas.
the european parliament also called for the creation of an energy efficiency fund from 2014 at first reading.
in this respect, i agree with the rapporteur that sugar beet is the best alternative to milk production, both in terms of economic efficiency and environmental protection, and i stress that the shipment of maximum quantities of sugar beet to continental europe must be further encouraged.
− i consider this report to be beneficial for the energy future of the european union, as long as the objectives set are feasible and in line with the financial situation in all member states.
the objectives adopted by the council on 14 april 2010 on the need to reduce the major differences between member states in the thermal efficiency of buildings, as well as the proposed target of achieving zero energy consumption in all buildings by 31 december 2020 by gradual steps by member states in 2015 and 2018, are welcome.
− the building sector is responsible for almost half of the co2 emissions not included in the eu emissions trading system and has a high potential to reduce these emissions at negative or low costs.
the new energy performance of buildings directive sets out a set of minimum energy performance indicators/requirements for new buildings so that they reach near-zero energy consumption by 2020, with energy coming largely from renewable sources, and the application of these requirements to existing buildings.
it is essential to inform citizens about these requirements and to encourage them to introduce smart metering systems (replacing hot water and air conditioning systems with energy efficient alternatives such as reversible heat pumps) when renovating buildings.
partial funding from the union budget will be provided to stimulate energy efficiency-related measures.
i voted for this report because the new legislation will help consumers to reduce their energy bills and thus enable the eu to achieve its target of reducing energy consumption by 20% by 2020.
in writing.
i believe that sustainability should be the main quality of such a programme, which is given a longer-term budgetary perspective by this decision.
the commission and the other institutions involved - the international monetary fund, the world bank, the european development bank and the european investment bank - must urgently draw up a package of support for ukraine to identify and implement a sustainable solution to reform its economy and, in particular, its energy sector.
in a globalised world, the european union, with a single market, must act as one to guarantee food security and promote renewable resources, to combat climate change and to intensify research to make the most of the opportunities it offers.
i said during my hearing at the european parliament that we should take care that when we spend european union money for different purposes we also ensure that the different projects – infrastructure was mentioned for instance – are being climate-proofed.
today we voted on the report on the amendment of the directive on the energy efficiency of buildings.
it's just the beginning of a new process where we can really reduce emissions and energy use in buildings significantly.
as my colleague said, we need funds and i hope we will have your support for a significant increase in the erdf share allocated to energy efficiency in housing, and also for the creation of a fund, starting in 2014, to improve energy efficiency, including in the industrial sector.
under the european regulation, there is a 4% quota from the european regional development fund which can be used by all member states for the construction of social housing and for the energy efficiency of buildings.
that is why i would ask you, commissioner, to support us in raising this quota for social housing and energy efficiency of buildings to 15% in the next financial programming period.
this activity is expected to increase, as the international energy agency estimates that only 5% of marine oil reserves are currently known.
past experience shows that accidents leave behind huge human and environmental damage, and the processes of establishing responsibility can take years.
we support investment in european energy infrastructure, but only if it is completely safe to build and operate.
i also call for any project for the extraction or transport of hydrocarbons underwater to be carried out only after a serious assessment of the environmental impact.
in this respect, the eu 2020 strategy includes some ideas for the future cap, but fails to give it its key strategic role in a broader, global approach that takes into account the enormous challenges posed by the prospects of doubling global food demand and climate change.
− the proposal for a directive on the labelling and standard product information of energy and other resource consumption of energy-related products is part of the energy efficiency package tabled by the commission in november 2008, together with two other proposals on the energy performance of buildings and the labelling of tyres with respect to fuel efficiency.
the labels will contain more information on the energy consumption of household and energy-impact products and in the future this labelling will also apply to energy-consuming products for industrial and commercial purposes, which was not possible until now.
last but not least, in future any advertising that promotes the price or energy efficiency of product categories will also have to indicate the energy class of the products.
the provision of accurate, relevant and comparable information on the energy consumption of energy-related products will enable consumers to make informed and efficient choices in the future, thereby reducing both energy consumption and household expenditure.
− i voted for this report because the amendment of the energy labelling directive, by including all energy-related products, will generate a €4 million reduction in transposition costs for each updated and newly developed implementing measure (if regulations/decisions are used instead of directives) and will result in an additional reduction of approximately 78 mt of co2 emissions.
in future, energy-efficiency labelling will also apply to energy-consuming products for industrial and commercial use, such as refrigerated rooms, display cases, industrial cooking facilities, vending machines (sandwiches, snacks, soft drinks, coffee, etc.
), industrial engines, energy products, including construction products, which do not consume energy but have a direct or indirect impact on energy savings, such as door and window heels.
the provision of accurate, relevant and comparable information on the specific energy consumption of energy-related products will help end-users to make energy-saving decisions with a view to reducing energy bills in the long term.
i also believe that the exchange of knowledge within regional groupings can also be facilitated by the structural funds, because european policies are coherently geared towards sustainable development with tangible results at regional level.
in the top-down approach, research and innovation will be the main themes to identify solutions to overcome the problems we face and for sustainable growth and development.
i believe that the union must invest heavily in transport and energy infrastructure, agriculture, health, education and research and, above all, in sustainable economic development.
over the next ten years, energy efficiency must be at the top of our agenda.
the union's population is also ageing, the birth rate is falling and high unemployment is affecting the sustainability of pension systems.
their education must be more in the perspective of practice and the real problems encountered in the economic environment.
in addition, more openness of universities to the business environment is needed to better adapt university education to the requirements of the labour market.
they're the ones who will have to engage in an economic environment where the recipes for success are no longer guaranteed.
i believe that not only the business environment will be profoundly restructured as a result of the economic and financial crisis, but also universities, which will have to go through transformations to adapt to an ever-changing environment that requires the acquisition of skills, not just knowledge.
i believe that a change of mindset is needed at community level, a business environment that contributes to the adaptation of the university curriculum, just as on the american continent, by initiating and financing specific courses.
– mr president, as rapporteur on investments in energy infrastructure and shadow rapporteur on security of gas supply, i am very sensitive to issues of energy security.
being on the border of my country, it has long been a matter of preoccupation in romania for obvious environmental reasons.
this is why i believe that the european commission should first perform a specific evaluation to assess the strengths and weaknesses of past projects in order to improve funds programming together with the ebrd for the next funding period 2010-2013. we have tabled several amendments requiring the bulgarian authorities to present a proper national strategy outlining long-term objectives in the energy efficiency and renewable energy sectors as a prerequisite to the eur 120 million envelope.
i am a supporter of electricity produced by nuclear power stations and i do not believe that europe will be able to achieve its clean energy targets without the construction of nuclear power stations.
it would therefore be important that the decommissioning process be accompanied by a public information campaign for all interested parties who have a right to know the stages of the decommissioning process, the timing and potential risks of each stage, how fissile material and hazardous waste are secured, and the ecological reconstruction of the kozloduy area.
i would stress the importance we must attach to the management of radioactive waste.
the eu is 53% dependent on energy imports.
to reduce energy dependency, some member states have adopted ambitious strategies for the use of nuclear energy and energy from renewable sources.
in the eu, nuclear energy accounts for 28% of total energy consumed and in belgium, france, lithuania, slovakia and sweden it is the most important source of energy.
nuclear power generation does not generate carbon dioxide emissions and in member states using nuclear energy, the price per household monthly energy bill is lower.
however, the eu is certainly very demanding in the operation of nuclear power plants and in the management of radioactive waste.
strong measures and high standards for the safety of nuclear installations, as well as good cooperation between local, regional, national and european authorities, provide the basis for the safe use of nuclear energy in the eu.
nuclear decommissioning requires long-term financial planning, continuing until the site has been fully recovered and all radioactive waste and spent fuel has been safely managed.
the union for the mediterranean's sustainability and credibility depend on its ability to function, and this requires not only adequate funding for the implementation of projects and the functioning of the secretariat, but also, i believe, greater involvement of civil society and the parliamentary, national and apem components in order to ensure the democratic legitimacy of the union for the mediterranean.
this initiative will contribute to the development of a climate of trust appropriate to the achievement of common objectives, whether economic, cultural, educational or regional security objectives.
the conclusion of this report, which highlights a fact that is essential to our energy security, is that more involvement from us, from the european union, is needed to normalize the security situation in the area.
one of them being energy cooperation and security, especially in the context of valuable projects supported by the european commission – such as the nabucco pipeline project.
the caspian sea and the black sea regions are vital for european energy security and the eu strategy for the south caucasus rightly recognises those elements.
this would give the business environment and investors a very good prospect.
the security issues for sure, and perhaps some issues related to energy, could be dealt with in a trilateral format.
ensuring energy security is a common concern of the european union and the south caucasus region.
cooperation in the field of energy should be stepped up, in particular through the early completion of the nabucco project and union support for energy projects promoting energy efficiency and the development of alternative energy sources in the south caucasus.
the second idea is, of course, the energy issue.
i would like to emphasize the role of georgia and azerbaijan as transit countries for energy resources and for diversifying sources of energy supply.
the european commission must come up with concrete initiatives for cooperation in areas such as energy security, transport, economic development and environmental protection.
the south caucasus region is of particular importance for the southern corridor and therefore for the energy security of the whole of europe.
i therefore believe that the eu 2020 strategy must set realistic targets for achieving a green, social and knowledge-based market economy and sustainable development by 2020, as well as for job creation in agriculture and the environment, as the cornerstone of the eu 2020 strategy must be the european single market, addressing the challenges of economic growth and consumer protection.
− in accordance with its commitments under the eu accession treaty, bulgaria is required to close units 1-4 of the kozloduy nuclear power plant (cnk), and the eu has provided financial assistance until 2009. i voted in favour of this report to support bulgaria's drive to supplement its funding with eur 300 million by 2013 to complete the decommissioning of the ncc, the remediation of the site, the sustainable management of all waste generated in conditions that are safe for health and the environment.
i also support the commission's request to monitor and control the implementation of all projects to be carried out under this grant: research/innovation to introduce renewable energy technologies to meet the need for an additional 18 000 kt of co2 equivalent reduction resulting from decommissioning.
all these processes must be carried out in full transparency to the citizens, subject to compliance with the provisions of all multilateral environmental agreements to which bulgaria is a party (e.g.
i have decided to vote against the final report on the long-term sustainability of public finances because these elements which i consider to be fundamental to ensuring the stability of the european single market and to maintaining a modern welfare state in europe have been removed from the report.
through trade policy we can promote respect for human rights, energy security, democracy and good governance.
i very much agree that governance is central to the successful achievement and sustainability of the mdgs.
with the delivery on other commitments we need improved predictability and effectiveness to support country-led developments that foster inclusive economic growth and increase public investments in education, health and infrastructure, enhance success to clean energy and promote low-carbon development.
while identifying bottlenecks in the mdg process, the cashman report presents alternatives to stop the waste of development assistance funds through a complex but balanced combination of legislative, financial and market mechanisms.
and the cashman report expresses a highly structured view, and it has a philosophy of sustainable development behind it.
in the context of the current crisis and the need to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, it is clear that the shift from road to rail freight transport is a positive factor that needs to be taken seriously.
a study on the environmental aspects of the radio frequency identification is going on and the institutional dialogue is well on its way.
internet of things technology will enable significant advances in health, transport, energy efficiency, the environment, retail and the fight against counterfeiting.
i therefore welcome the european financial support that will enable romania to guarantee every household access to the internet and i stress that this investment will make a significant contribution to the modernisation of the romanian countryside and to the economic development of the rural environment.
− to bring the european institutions and bodies closer to the citizens they serve and to highlight their contribution to social and economic cohesion and the sustainable development of europe, one of the european union's core concerns is to increase its transparency.
it will provide business opportunities for european companies and will benefit from tackling climate change and improving energy and transport management.
the transformation of the european economy into a sustainable one must lead to a greater competitiveness of european societies and allow new opportunities for national economies to emerge as a result of the economic and environmental challenges facing europe.
we cannot just look at some governance rules in the framework of the stability and growth pact, we have to look also at what we can do for growth in europe, especially to ensure that it is inclusive sustainable growth.
i am referring in particular to the development of transport infrastructure and the energy efficiency of buildings.
it was only in april 2009 that i changed the regulation so that all member states have a 4% erdf quota for energy efficiency in housing and social housing.
i would like to ask the commission whether it is considering the development of a common policy on inland waters, as in the case of the common maritime policy, which would deal in an integrated manner with spatial planning, environmental protection, protection of the marine environment, maritime transport, development of areas along inland waters or coastal areas.
joint action at community level is needed to meet the challenges and to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of programming by integrating all research activities into a well-coordinated, unitary programme that promotes sustainable development in the region.
environmental problems in certain regions could be tackled much more successfully if research activities carried out by individual states were pooled.
what is important is to see the results of this programme expressed in clear benefits for the environment, for the citizens and for the development of this area, especially in the context of the current economic crisis.
the eu is facing the effects of the economic and financial crisis, the social effects of rising unemployment, climate change and demographic challenges.
demographic challenges and the effects of the economic and financial crisis are jeopardising the sustainability of pension systems and increasing the risk of poverty, especially for older people and young people.
the eu 2020 strategy should have reflected the union's political vision by 2020 to generate sustainable economic growth, jobs and decent livelihoods for european citizens.
it will form the basis both for the mid-term review of the 2007-2013 multiannual financial framework and for the future financial perspective 2014-2020. the eu needs to invest in the sustainable development of the trans-european intermodal transport system, in european energy infrastructure, in energy efficiency and in agriculture.
the eu 2020 strategy should be based on the outcome of public consultations and debates on the future cohesion policy, the future common agricultural policy, the future common transport and energy policy, the future industrial policy and the future research and innovation policy.
an energy community is important.
it is undeniable that russia is a strategic partner of major importance, both economically and in energy and trade in general.
in addition to environmental and security aspects, gmes aims to promote progress and innovation.
uniform regulations at european level, placing in a visible place the lipid content, saturated fatty acids, sugars and energy content will overcome the language barriers that some consumers might invoke.
last but not least, i think it's important that we move forward and promote more vigorously the sustainable two-state solution, despite those who oppose peace and stability in the region.
these actions generate a climate of terror within their community, and impede on their legitimate work.
we have been active in bosnia and herzegovina since 1995 with policies, human resources, energy and funds.
as regards the eu-us air transport agreement, it is noted that a preliminary agreement was already concluded on 25 march 2010. this agreement provides for the full opening of markets and gives priority to cooperation on eu-us air traffic management systems, sesar and nextgen to ensure interoperability and compatibility and to contribute to reducing environmental impact.
we regret that the emissions trading system regulation is not part of the preliminary agreement and in this regard we call for further negotiations with a view to the entry into force of the ets in 2012.
the european union needs a trans-european intermodal transport system that is sustainable and efficient, and the development of rail transport is a priority.
climate change is leading to desertification and intensifying extreme events such as storms, torrential rains and floods.
i also call on the commission to develop a common inland water policy that addresses economic and social development in european river basins, environmental protection, water quality, flood risk prevention and management in an integrated way.
producers in traditional businesses get prices that are incomparably lower than those in shops, which is an obstacle to the sustainable development of european aquaculture, which is the subject of today's debate.
i believe that we need to support research and development efforts in this area and allocate appropriate resources to aquaculture projects to further develop the knowledge base needed to promote sustainable and competitive practices.
in this way, we will achieve the promotion of economic activity, employment and, at the same time, the respect of good environmental practices.
the threat to bluefin tuna and to the biodiversity of our oceans as a whole will continue to grow unless we address this crucial point.
− fish is a healthy food, and we should do everything possible to promote a sustainable fish sector to provide it.
this includes developing a legislative framework which helps the aquaculture sector to deliver a secure supply of high-quality, healthy food and better protection for the environment.
aquaculture has the potential to address all these concerns – by reducing pressure on wild stocks and biodiversity, and by creating jobs in coastal and rural regions.
with a third of its population living below the poverty line and a sixth of its population undernourished, the highest illiteracy rate in south asia, facing an energy crisis and inflation, especially in food prices, nepal is not only a hotbed of tension but also a serious humanitarian problem.
iceland can make an important contribution to the european union through its democratic tradition, its experience in environmental protection, and by anchoring european policies in the arctic.
it will support the introduction of medium- and long-term reforms to ensure the sustainability of public finances, including through the reform of pension systems.
the european council of 17 june 2010 adopted five main objectives for growth and employment: an employment rate of 75% for the population aged 20-64; improved conditions for research and development and the use of 3% of gdp for this sector; a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions compared to 1990; a 20% increase in energy efficiency; 20% of energy consumed to come from renewable sources; a reduction in school dropouts and higher education graduation rates; and poverty reduction.
in addition, the economic and financial crisis has led to a dramatic increase in unemployment, jeopardising the sustainability of pension systems already dependent on demographic change, thus putting the elderly and young population at risk of poverty.
i believe that the digital agenda, the climate change agenda, investment in transport and energy infrastructure and agricultural development should be the main elements of the eu2020 strategy, to be supported by cohesion policy, the common agricultural policy and the future financial perspective.
unfortunately, the field is very little addressed in the eu 2020 strategy, although it is a strong generator of labour and sustainable economic growth.
expanded intermodality is an effective way to reduce congestion and carbon dioxide emissions.
sustainable transport, in particular by rail, inland waterways and maritime transport, must be promoted by all means.
the report on a sustainable future for transport contains parliament's recommendations for both the forthcoming white paper on sustainable transport in the european union and the future ten-t. given the high population density of the european union, it is essential to further develop rail and sea transport.
it is time to promote young people and to ensure that they have a truly european, civilized environment in which to work and live.
– effective management of biowaste can bring many environmental benefits, such as improved soil quality and the production of renewable energy in the form of biogas.
many smallholdings in romania already recycle biowaste, even though this would not be officially recognised under a collection system because it never enters the official waste stream.
i strongly believe that the establishment of a baltic sea environmental observatory, an alarm system in the event of accidents and serious cross-border pollution, and a joint task force for these situations is vital.
this is how we will achieve smart and sustainable economic growth for europe's countries and regions.
during the spanish presidency, however, the european union also faced an alarming increase in unemployment, following the economic and financial crisis that began in 2008. i therefore believe that reducing unemployment and ensuring sustainable economic growth should remain the top priority for the belgian eu presidency as well.
− the european union is a signatory to the barcelona convention for the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution and has an obligation to promote integrated coastal zone management, taking into account the protection of areas of ecological interest and the rational use of natural resources.
i voted in favour of this report because it includes objectives and principles for good coastal management and promotes the sustainable use of natural resources through the use of monitoring tools.
− the coastal areas of the mediterranean sea continue to be subject to severe environmental pressures and a marked degradation of coastal resources.
in the mediterranean area, urban expansion is intense, leading to a gradual loss of natural areas and biodiversity, as well as increased competition for water resources.
nearly 50% of the coastline could become built-up area by 2025, up from 40% in 2000. moreover, the mediterranean basin is one of the most vulnerable areas to the impact of climate change.
the protocol provides a framework for stimulating a more concerted and integrated approach, which is needed to address these problems more effectively and achieve a more sustainable development of the coastal areas of the mediterranean sea.
to overcome this crisis, the union must step up its efforts and invest in skills, vocational training and sustainable job creation.
structural programmes must be implemented not as safeguards for economic survival but as objectives for sustainable development in the future.
i voted in favour of this report because i support the aim of european transport policies, namely the establishment of a sustainable transport system that meets all the economic, social and environmental needs of citizens and encourages the achievement of an inclusive society and a fully integrated and competitive europe.
− decarbonizing transport is a significant policy objective that needs to be pursued more intensively in the future, as the adverse health and environmental effects of transport are a major challenge, especially in efforts to combat climate change.
for such decarbonisation to contribute to a significant reduction in exhaust gas and noise emissions and to reduce traffic jams, two conditions must be met: the internalisation of external costs must cover all transport modes, and the revenues generated must be used to increase the sustainability of the infrastructure.
they should not only be quick aid, but also contribute to improving environmental and safety performance, creating new green jobs, by developing both national and european policy instruments.
- i voted for the grosch report on a sustainable future for transport because i believe its recommendations should be reflected in the forthcoming white paper on the development of trans-european transport.
− the european union is facing a major financial, economic and social crisis, and to overcome it, efforts to invest in skills, vocational training and sustainable job creation must be stepped up.
the most efficient way to produce biogas is by recovering organic waste, which benefits industry, the economy and the environment.
at the same time, recycling of bio-waste can also help to reduce the use of chemical fertilizers in agriculture, especially phosphorus-based ones, and to improve the hydrological retention capacity of the soil to maintain high productivity.
this link between the transition to a recycling society, the development of a low-carbon economy and the potential for job creation in the field is important in the current economic, environmental and social context.
− a strategic objective of waste management policy is to transform the eu into a recycling society.
the enormous amount of waste produced annually in the eu (estimated at between 76.5 and 102 million tonnes of bio-waste, and in romania at around 8 million tonnes) cannot be wasted.
biological waste plays an important role in combating climate change (in 2004, the waste sector emitted a total of 109 million tonnes of greenhouse gases), offering valuable potential for protecting soil and promoting renewable energy production.
this means that sustainable development can be promoted through resource efficiency: the correct and uniform eu-wide management of bio-waste, the promotion of technological innovation and the creation of green jobs (e.g.
the recycling industry of 10 000 tonnes of waste creates up to 250 jobs).
therefore, a mandatory separate collection system, the recycling of bio-waste, a specific bio-waste directive, the encouragement of research and innovation and increased awareness of waste prevention measures among citizens are necessary to help the economy and the environment and to achieve the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy.
i have long believed that in the case of environmental, industrial and financial risks, the polluter should be the payer, that repair always costs more than prevention and that when it comes to prevention or repair, it is not the taxpayers who should be called to the front line.
we need an effective supervisory system that creates the conditions for stable financing of the economy, for ensuring sustainable economic growth and jobs.
it will thus be able to contribute to the sustainability of public finances in the beneficiary member state.
we need to take a cautious approach to food technology if we do not fully understand its impact on the human body and the environment.
the purpose of this regulation is to ensure a high level of food safety and protection of the consumer, the environment and animal welfare, based on the precautionary principle.
the industrial emissions directive aims to reduce emissions from over 52 000 industrial installations across the union in a variety of industries.
in order to obtain these permits, companies in the industries concerned should also submit an investment plan guaranteeing the modernisation of industrial installations with a view to reducing polluting emissions.
the directive should provide sufficient flexibility for european industry to be modernised so as to preserve industrial production and jobs in the european union, while reducing polluting emissions.
these derogations concern cases where the costs of the investment exceed the environmental benefits.
the compromise text is part of a systematic approach to improving the performance of industrial installations, both in terms of environmental protection and economic benefits.
i would like to welcome the success of the trialogue on the proposed directive on industrial emissions.
most of the provisions in the directive are necessary to ensure the functioning of economic operators in the energy industry who need time to comply with the new rules.
the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules on the protection of the environment are respected.
we are currently seeing a timid development of alternative energy sources in certain regions, which maintains a strong dependence on fossil fuels.
we need to find solutions to invest in modern means of producing energy in a way that is as low-polluting as possible and to facilitate the transition of workers from polluting industries, such as coal mining, to other sectors of the economy.
the european commission must ensure the uniform spread of state-of-the-art energy production technologies across europe by providing logistical and financial support, where needed, to member states that no longer have the resources to invest in such projects.
it gives the eu a greater voice in the world and also brings tangible benefits for its citizens, including greater prosperity, improved prospects for economic growth and new opportunities for cooperation, for example in transport, energy and many other areas.
in line with the renewed consensus on enlargement, screening of chapters with special sensitivity in the icelandic context – meaning financial services, fisheries, agriculture and the environment – should start very early in the process.
− this regulation lays down harmonised rules for the placing on the market of novel foods in the community in order to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests, while ensuring the transparency and efficient functioning of the internal market and stimulating innovation in the agri-food industry.
− we voted this report to adopt the revised legislation on industrial air pollution, with stricter limits for nitrous oxide, sulphur dioxide and dust particles, which are harmful to both health and the environment.
this integrated approach is beneficial both for the protection of the environment and public health and for the sustainable development of european society.
deforestation, which occurs at a rate of about 13 million hectares a year, accounts for about 20% of global carbon emissions and is a significant contributor to the destruction of biodiversity.
− deforestation is responsible for up to 20% of carbon emissions worldwide.
illegal timber coming from third countries also competes unfairly with the eu forestry industry which, more often than not, is producing timber legally and in a sustainable manner.
i therefore welcome this report and parliament’s successful negotiations with the council – it is an important piece of legislation which will help to address many environmental challenges, from biodiversity protection to climate change.
such a policy, aimed at increasing the european union’s capacity for providing security to its citizens and improving its capacity to shape the global environment, not only to react to changes, requires an adequate institutional instrument – an efficient european external action service.
i believe that legislation must be sufficiently stringent to prevent such accidents and that we must also ensure that companies operating in european waters have the financial capacity to withstand damage to the environment and society in a maximum risk scenario.
it is expected that by 2030 global oil demand will be one third higher than today, and in the european union the share of oil will represent 35% of primary energy demand.
in the context of the current economic and financial crisis, investment opportunities in oil infrastructure are relatively limited and i believe that both the commission and the member states must coordinate their efforts closely to facilitate investment in this area, in particular to avoid negative consequences of possible catastrophes on the environment and to ensure the energy security of the european union.
in a globalised world, the european union, with its single market, must act as one to guarantee food security, promote renewable resources, combat climate change and intensify research to make the most of the opportunities it offers.
in short, i want the province of kosovo to achieve sustainable stability and economic development within the european perspective of the western balkans.
in particular, cooperation between belgrade and pristina, especially at the local level, is fundamental for citizens, especially in the most affected sectors such as environment, infrastructure and trade.
as the eu must provide food security for its citizens and ensure the long-term development of agricultural sectors, the agricultural sector must undergo major changes to maintain productivity, while adapting to much stricter environmental constraints than before.
policies to reduce land use to combat climate change will restrict the acreage used and impose additional conditions on agricultural production to reduce the impact on the environment and climate.
in addition, the eu's common agricultural policy will have to adapt to a new global and regional economic and social context, which takes into account rising energy costs.
we need to promote common standards and objectives, taking into account the specificities of each region, and thus achieve a high-performing, multifunctional and sustainable agriculture in europe.
− given the strategic importance of the fisheries sector both for supplying the population and for the balance of the food balance of the various member states and the european union as a whole, i believe that, like the agricultural sector, the fisheries sector is a strategic sector, which depends on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of natural resources.
we will continue to seek and support ways to create and sustain an open political environment where human rights and freedoms are fully respected.
un experts went further by stating that reprisals for exercising their constitutionally guaranteed functions and creating a climate of fear among the judiciary and the lawyers’ profession served no purpose except to undermine the rule of law and obstruct justice, arguing that the immediate and unconditional release of judge afiuni is imperative.
the september legislative elections are widely seen as a milestone for the future of the country and it is now timely for the eu to underline the importance that these elections be held in a peaceful, transparent and fully democratic environment.
the interconnection of member states' trade registers is a step forward towards simplifying the business environment and reducing the administrative burden on entrepreneurs.
increasing birth rates and job creation are also indispensable for the sustainability of pension systems.
i believe that the union should invest as a priority in the modernisation and development of energy and transport infrastructure, in agriculture, education and health, in economic and social cohesion and in an eco-efficient and competitive industrial policy that ensures sustainable development.
in addition, to increase the eu's competitiveness and create jobs, the eu should set itself the objective of increasing energy efficiency and reducing energy dependence on traditional energy suppliers.
in this context, the role of eu cohesion policy is crucial in developing the job-creating potential of a sustainable economy by reducing regional disparities and creating a society with full employment.
−sustainable development must be based on social justice and eco-efficiency.
support the organisation of awareness and public awareness campaigns to demonstrate that our strategy for the transition to a green, sustainable economy is socially equitable and will lead to increased employment.
i stress the need to pay particular attention to biodiversity in the context of creating green jobs across europe, especially in the implementation of the natura 2000 networks.
− i voted for the report on the job creation potential of a new sustainable economy because i believe that member states need to move towards a competitive, efficient and low-carbon economy.
i therefore call on the union to develop a sustainable industrial policy and to involve the industrial sector in eco-innovation, in order to reduce the dependence of economic growth on the consumption of resources and energy and to reduce polluting emissions.
i believe that to create jobs in the 'eco-efficient' economy, we need to invest in energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy and green technologies in buildings, transport and agriculture.
call for a european employment strategy to achieve a sustainable economy as part of the eu 2020 strategy and draw attention to the role of regional authorities.
improving the functioning of food chains should include differentiating and reviewing hygiene rules; decentralising and simplifying certification and control systems; promoting direct producer-consumer relations and short food supply chains; involving producers and consumers in the development of quality and fair trade criteria and environmental sustainability criteria for public procurement practices in the food sector (food services) as a means of increasing food quality and local economic development, while reducing food transport distance and dependence on agrochemicals; reducing losses along the food chain, most of which are linked to 30% of imports from member states; reviewing the european food chain, which should help 43 million people to develop closer links between local food producers and european food consumers; and closing the gap between the european food supply chain and the food supply chain, which should help 43 million people to achieve a better quality of life.
the union must provide a safe environment in which differences are respected and the most vulnerable protected.
i believe that sustainable rehabilitation can only be achieved by growing one's own economy.
radioactive waste must be handled and stored in the safest possible conditions.
this theme will allow leaders to discuss enablers for economic growth in areas like energy efficiency, private sector development and trade, agriculture and food security;– environmental protection, particularly focusing on climate change and biodiversity protection; – peace and security, which is an important issue, including addressing crisis situations, the combating of terrorism, piracy and transnational crime, and the links to governance and human rights.
the commission is also implementing the white paper ‘adapting to climate change: towards a european framework for action’.
furthermore, the commission intends to launch by 2012 a blueprint for europe’s waters which will be based on a review of the implementation of the water framework directive, a review of the water scarcity and droughts policy and a review of the vulnerability of water resources to climate change.
in order to prepare this blueprint the commission is launching a number of activities, including a pilot project on the development of prevention activities to halt desertification in europe and an integrated assessment study of the vulnerability of european water resources to climate change and adaptation measures.
the fight against climate change is a priority for the european union.
the effects of climate change are becoming more visible.
it is so shocking that after the speech this morning by the president of the european commission, mr jose manuel durao barroso, on the state of the union and our european projects, we are now discussing the state of the media within the union and in particular in a number of countries: the commission has already carried out a number of studies on the effects of the single market on the environment.
the cost and sustainability of the latter are increasingly in question, however, due to the economic situation and the increased rate of ageing.
if it were possible, we would all like to see animal testing abandoned, but its use is still necessary to protect human health, animals and the environment.
the resolution adopted by parliament is intended to reduce the differences in the degree of protection of animals used for scientific purposes in the member states, since we are all aware that this is necessary for the protection of human and animal health and the environment.
together with the broad economic policy guidelines, they form the integrated guidelines for the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
however, it is expected that the impact of the economic crisis on employment has not yet reached its full potential and therefore current efforts to ensure a sustainable recovery and to strengthen the job creation potential of european economies and to help people to get into work are welcome.
with the 2020 agenda on the table, with targets for the adoption of new technologies that reduce carbon emissions, the employment strategy should be designed not only for the short term, but also for the medium and long term.
i would also like to point out that, as is well known, environmental protection associations have been warning for some time that the ecological situation of the jordan river is critical.
but there is a danger that the river will dry up in 2011, with dramatic consequences for the already fragile ecosystem of the area and, in particular, for the dead sea.
in this way, hundreds of thousands of palestinians, jordanians and israelis will be affected by an ecological catastrophe.
but beyond the ecological aspect - my colleagues have also stressed this here - an aspect which must of course be dealt with urgently with the help of our union, the situation of the jordan river is of particular importance as a factor in promoting regional cooperation.
the problems they face are environmental, humanitarian and international security, and these are interconnected.
the main innovation proposed is the concept of a two-tier planning approach: maintaining a ten-t core consisting of the relatively dense networks of railways, roads, inland waterways, ports and airports, which constitute the overall network, mostly derived from the corresponding national networks, overlaid by a core network, which would embody a genuine european planning perspective, focused on systemic enhancement of the resource efficiency of the transport network and a significant overall reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from transport.
the european parliament has repeatedly expressed its view that these foods should be banned, for a number of ethical and environmental reasons, and we will continue to have a strong and united position on this during the negotiations on the new food regulations.
at the same time, from an environmental point of view, the impact of increased meat consumption could be devastating, and large numbers of cloned animals would affect natural biodiversity, increasing the vulnerability of animals to epidemics and thus threatening food security.
moreover, looking at the bigger picture, we should insist that the wto rules also take into account such ethical and environmental considerations.
we cannot allow experiments that jeopardize the health of citizens or the environment.
− member states and the european institutions have a duty to develop and support the implementation of the necessary measures to create an appropriate political and social environment for the implementation of measures to include roma communities in education, health, social protection and labour market inclusion.
i believe that the eu and the member states need to take account of the ageing population in order to cooperate in establishing a sustainable system for financing care for the elderly, as well as adequate training for staff working in the system, with an appropriate level of pay, which will allow the quality of the services provided to be improved.
in calling for jointly planned, cross-border solutions to the issues of pollution and over-exploitation of water resources, the resolution underlines the confidence and peace-building outcomes that can follow on from israeli, palestinian and jordanian cooperation in facing the problem of the river jordan’s degradation.
in addition, turkey's participation is vital in the implementation of union-wide energy infrastructure development projects such as nabucco.
the maintenance of natural ecosystems, the regulation of climate, water and air, soil fertility and the production of food, fuel, fibre, medicines, all depend on biodiversity.
the european commission, but especially the member states, must actively engage in the conservation of the natural capital necessary for the sustainable development of communities, in terms of ensuring renewable resources, landscape and recreational value, protection and ensuring the ecological balances necessary to maintain a healthy environment.
the good news would be an increase in the amounts allocated to the environmental financial instrument.
additional investment platforms are needed and we need to find ways to encourage biodiversity-positive investments and, conversely, discourage investments that affect biodiversity, both in the public and private sectors.
i also share the rapporteur's view that the commission should consider all factors relevant to the sustainability of projects and introduce systematic monitoring of projects.
i am referring to the key instrument in the union for the protection of biodiversity and ecosystems, which is the natura 2000 network, which covers 18% of the union's land area, and in romania, for example, 17.84%.
given that we have to achieve this, we have to protect biodiversity, i believe that the commission should supplement the funds allocated to biodiversity protection in the new multiannual financial framework, starting in 2014, as well as a mid-term evaluation of the current budgetary framework, especially as the target of halting biodiversity loss by 2010 has not been reached.
the main pollutants affecting marine biodiversity are the dnieper, don, dniester and danube rivers, which each year dump 600,000 tonnes of phosphorus and 340 tonnes of inorganic nitrogen into the black sea.
first, on common rules on biodiversity, the commission is working with the member states and stakeholders on developing guidelines on key sectors affecting nature, for example wind energy, ports and estuaries.
we are also planning a communication campaign on natura 2000. the new biodiversity strategy will focus very sharply on strengthening integration with key eu policies affecting biodiversity, agriculture, fisheries and regional development.
we see this as a key gap in our policies for resource use and sustainability.
we very much share your concerns on soil degradation and its environmental consequences.
finally, it is comforting to see that the commission and members of parliament have the same views on the urgency and importance of halting biodiversity loss and restoring ecosystem services.
we also seem to concur on the reasons that, regretfully, led to our failure to reach our eu 2010 biodiversity target.
we cannot face eu citizens in 2020 admitting that the eu did not exhaust all its options in attempting to stop biodiversity from being lost in europe.
i will just finish by sharing with members of parliament the slogan of our eu-wide campaign for biodiversity, launched this year, which in this year of biodiversity is ‘we are all in this together’.
eco-conditionality is part of the common agricultural policy and has many implications for soil conservation; it is also a control and sanctioning mechanism that leads to a reduction in direct support in the event of non-compliance with the standards set in the field of environment, public health, animal and plant health, and animal welfare.
eco-conditionality refers to the requirement to maintain land in good agricultural and environmental condition.
i believe that cross compliance should apply to direct income support payments as well as to most environmental payments applied in rural development and that member states should set this at national or regional level, in accordance with a common framework existing at european level.
in this context, i call for the promotion of solidarity and efficiency in the field of energy resources, transport and agriculture infrastructure, broadband infrastructure in rural areas, priority areas that can ensure job creation.
we can do this by harmonising rules, for example on consumer contracts, and we can streamline procedures to make them less costly for businesses conducting cross-border transactions, for example, concerning waste management fees, copyright levies, vat reporting obligations and invoicing.
security of energy supply has become a priority for the eu, and this is most welcome.
we need to continue diversifying energy routes and supply sources.
security of energy supply has a different meaning depending on whether you are romanian, dutch or finnish.
our various geopolitical situations require a european approach and the european approach requires full completion of the energy market.
what is a scoop, though, is for a politician to say that politics should back off from energy policy, and i am saying that loud and clear.
in romania, the shaping of our energy strategy is in the hands of a few people in the security council led by the president.
it is time to ask for more transparency, accountability and democracy in the way our member states deal with energy policy.
it must be supported in particular by the european union because it offers the only viable alternative to the russian energy monopoly.
the european union's energy security depends on diversifying energy sources and supply routes.
i believe that the european union should invest more in energy infrastructure and energy efficiency, and as far as gas energy infrastructure is concerned (i am referring to the creation of new gas pipelines, and here i stress the importance of the nabucco project for the energy security of the european union) it would be important for the european union to invest in new gas storage facilities, in improving interconnections between member states and equipping them with reverse flows, but also in gas production facilities from renewable energy sources.
i would like to stress that the treaty of lisbon has created a new framework for solidarity between member states in the event of an energy crisis and i would like to welcome the work done by the rapporteur, mr vidal-quadras, because this regulation is indeed a step forward in increasing the energy security of the european union.
we all know how important energy supplies are to the european union.
the key to ensuring europe's security of energy supply is improved energy infrastructure, interconnections and reverse flow capability, storage facilities, and most importantly, monitoring and management based on solidarity between member states.
it would also be important to continue the debate on the future energy community.
madam president, since 2006 when the first interruption of gas supply from russia took place, energy security has become a top item agenda on the eu’s activity.
in spite of the fact that this is widely recognised, in practice the eu is incapable of stopping its increasing dependence on energy supplies from actors with strong political agendas, who do not hesitate to exploit the eu’s increasing vulnerability.
however, to conclude, it would be wrong to say that there is no current energy security system – there is, it is just that it is individual and not collective, with each eu country wanting to protect itself through preferential relations with individual suppliers for whose favours they are sometimes ready to compete fiercely.
the adoption of this report significantly improves the legislative framework for eu energy security policy.
the diversification of energy sources is a priority in view of the energy crisis facing europe.
it will connect the european market to gas resources in the caspian region through the azerbaijan-georgia-romania energy corridor.
in view of the energy security guarantees provided by this agreement, i hope that the eu will give it the attention it deserves.
in addition, all measures to ensure the proper functioning of the internal energy market should be accompanied by dynamic energy diplomacy.
second, there is cancun, with the lessons drawn from the eu failure on climate change in copenhagen.
− the european union needs a sustainable gas market, diversification of networks, a transparent and solid internal market, and secure monitoring of supplies from third countries.
− the eu's energy security policy should enable it to anticipate, not just react to, gas crises such as the one in 2009. the eu's growing dependence on external energy resources, mostly from politically unstable and unpredictable states, could harm the economic interests of the member states.
the eu's energy vulnerability requires a comprehensive energy policy that combines internal and external dimensions.
all measures to ensure the proper functioning of the internal energy market should be accompanied by dynamic diplomacy aimed at strengthening cooperation with the main producing, transit and consuming countries.
− in a world dominated lately by oil price fluctuations and natural gas supply disruptions, the european union is increasingly concerned about energy insecurity.
we are becoming increasingly aware of our vulnerability to these shocks and therefore concrete steps must be taken to adopt an efficient energy policy.
i voted in favour of the report because i believe that energy security must be seen as an essential component of the overall security of the european union and that ensuring the continuity of gas supply is a strategic objective of the european union.
− gas emits the least co2 of all fossil fuels, making it a key player in europe's transition to a low-carbon energy system.
currently, a quarter of europe's primary energy consumption is gas, with almost 60% of the volume of gas consumed being imported.
while the eu's 2020 targets for renewables, energy efficiency and greenhouse gas emissions reductions could help stabilise gas demand growth, the decline in domestic production could nevertheless lead to a situation where the eu's dependence on gas imports stays at the same level or even increases.
the gas crisis between russia and ukraine in january 2009, which led to a 30% reduction in gas imports into the eu for a period of two weeks, clearly demonstrated that, in the current situation of increasing import dependence and supply and transit risks, the review of the existing gas security directive and the completion of the creation of a fully liberalised internal energy market are needed, and that there is a strong need to adopt measures to strengthen the security of gas supply in the eu.
- i voted for this report in view of the high volume of trade and the long-standing links between turkey and the european union: turkey has become a key trading partner of the eu, ranking seventh in the eu's top import markets, fifth in the ranking of export markets and an investment base for the european business environment, with two thirds of global foreign direct investment (fdi) coming from the eu, with increasing integration into the eu's supply and production chain, often in high value-added segments.
turkey should take the initiative to swiftly implement the intergovernmental agreement on the nabucco pipeline, define a common external energy strategy and open negotiations on the energy chapter, which would improve energy cooperation.
given its geostrategic position, turkey is one of the countries with an important role to play in diversifying the eu's energy sources and supply routes.
i also encouraged turkey to invest in the huge potential of its renewable energy sources.
the black sea region is of particular geostrategic importance for the eu's energy security and diversification of energy supply, given its proximity to the caspian sea, the middle east and central asia, and following the accession of romania and bulgaria, the eu has become a major player in the region.
we must act to stop the loss of biodiversity caused by human action.
i believe that farmers have an important role to play in achieving biodiversity goals.
i also believe that additional financial resources will have to be made available for biodiversity conservation programmes.
− 2010 is the world year of biodiversity.
biodiversity is the natural capital of the world and is essential for the existence of human life on earth and for the well-being of societies, both directly and indirectly through the ecosystem services it provides.
i stress the importance of biodiversity conservation in the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, not only because of its potential for job creation but also because of its contribution to the efficient and sustainable use of natural resources.
i am concerned about the failure to achieve the global target of reducing the rate of biodiversity loss by 2010, as set out at the 2002 world summit on sustainable development, and to achieve the 2015 target of reducing poverty and hunger and improving human health and well-being, as set out in the millennium development goals.
i believe that the most important reason for european citizens' inaction in tackling biodiversity loss is their lack of knowledge, as shown by a recent eurobarometer survey: only 38% of europeans are familiar with the term 'biodiversity', while 28% know the word but not its meaning, and 17% believe that biodiversity loss is already affecting them.
- this report is closely linked to the biodiversity report and i obviously voted in favour of it.
the scale and frequency of disasters are often facilitated by policies that create an inadequate relationship between man and the environment.
− strong and sustainable economic growth in a stable environment contributes to prosperity and quality jobs and is the surest and most sustainable way out of poverty.
in this connection, i believe that developing countries should: - put more emphasis on combating the exploitation of child labour, with a view to creating quality and sustainable jobs for adults in return and to allowing children to receive an appropriate education; - give priority to actions contributing to the fulfilment of basic social needs and promoting the protection of vulnerable children and women, severely affected by the crisis, as well as at-risk young people, low-paid, unskilled and migrant workers, rural workers and persons with disabilities.
there are many aspects of this report which will bring benefits, but i especially welcome the call for further research into the environmental impacts of pharmaceutical products, and the effects they can have on ground water, for example.
− if we look at energy prices and analyse the general increase in recent times, we have several causes for this.
we believe that this will have a moderating effect on energy prices in europe.
i was able to stress to the energy ministers earlier this month that the rules for the internal energy market are consciously aimed at consumer protection and that we want to do everything possible to clearly define public service obligations for quality and prices transparent, non-discriminatory and verifiable.
the issue of billing is discussed in the energy citizens' forum with the aim of exchanging best practices, benchmarking, best practice.
the third energy package also contains new provisions on the frequency of meter reading and also on the subject of intelligent consumption measurement.
there is a public consultation entitled 'towards a european charter of energy consumers' rights' which was drawn up three years ago.
we will continue to work on this with the energy ministers.
i would like to refer to the transparency of bills concerning the energy consumed by european households and i would like to ask you whether you intend to create a common framework, some recommendations on the minimum information that must be contained in the energy bill, so that it is both easy to understand and sufficiently clear to consumers.
the liberalisation of the energy market is only meaningful if there is competition, transparency and the possibility of directing the supply to the place of consumption.
we welcome your interest in developing an intelligent energy infrastructure keyword smart grids .
a study funded by the commission concluded two years ago that smart grids could reduce primary energy consumption in the eu energy market by almost 9% over ten years.
on the other hand, consumers can also better control and manage their energy consumption.
the role of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer), which will be operational in the spring of next year, should also be highlighted.
all in all, we want to achieve europe's energy objectives not only on a europe-wide basis but also in regional cooperation.
i would like to ask you, because smart energy networks will also contribute a lot to increasing energy efficiency, they will help to identify energy-deficit areas and areas where there is a lack or insufficient energy infrastructure and that is why i would like to ask you what investment prospects you are considering, i am referring here to the mid-term review but also to the future financial perspective.
sustainable economic and social development is achieved through the use of various territorial advantages.
research and development policies would lead to better exploitation of the vast natural potential of these regions with direct impact, for example, in the field of sustainable energy and tourism.
these areas, more than any other regions of the union, face particular challenges generated by difficult access, climate change, regional integration, demographic change.
these areas must have adequate resources and capacity for sustainable development, for access to services of general interest.
connie hedegaard is unable to be here today because she is in new york in the context of the ongoing climate negotiations.
the icao assembly will be held, as you know, from 28 september to 8 october, and climate protection is, in principle, at the top of the agenda.
the icao council, which met last week to prepare a resolution on air transport and climate protection, was unfortunately unsuccessful.
the eu's unilateral commitment to reduce co2 emissions by 20% below 1990 levels also includes emissions from aviation.
air emissions have almost doubled since 1990 and are expected to continue to rise.
for 2020, we expect them to be 70% higher than in 2005. by 2050, it is estimated that the number of jobs will have increased by between 400% and 500% compared to 2005. the european union's action to tackle the climate impact of aviation has been a focus since the european parliament and the council decided in 2008 to integrate aviation emissions into the eu emissions trading system from 2012. this concerns all flights to and from the eu.
they all have to contribute to climate protection in the european emissions trading system, unless the home countries have comparable systems to reduce emissions from international aviation.
the eu's position for the forthcoming icao negotiations was confirmed by the council at the beginning of september, with the adoption by icao of a 10% greenhouse gas reduction target for international aviation by 2020 compared to 2005 and the establishment of a common framework to support market-based actions to reduce aviation emissions by icao.
the eu is prepared to exclude flights from third countries from the ets on a bilateral basis if that country implements appropriate climate protection measures for transport.
you know that we disagree with the united states and other icao members on the issue of air traffic emissions.
for mutual recognition of climate change measures, is directly opposed to the implementation of european measures.
but we will not allow our partners to undermine eu legislation, especially as we believe that this measure, which will account for one third of global aviation emissions, is a key contribution to the fight against climate change.
we cannot accept that those who want to do more to combat climate change need the permission of those who want to do less.
there is no veto over the climate protection legislation of other states.
but it is also impossible for serious climate action to create a competitive disadvantage.
if we were to apply eu rules only to european airlines, it would be discriminatory on grounds of nationality, it would undermine the fight against climate change and it would be economically pointless.
mutual agreement is the magic word for continued inaction in the fight against aviation emissions and climate change.
on the contrary, we need a common approach and a global reduction target to reduce aviation emissions in a sustainable and long-term way.
statistics compiled by the european environment agency showed that in 2005, 20% of total carbon dioxide emissions were generated by air transport.
research into new engines and fuels will obviously reduce these emissions.
i believe that these agreements should explicitly contain provisions on the reduction of aviation's impact on the environment.
article 25a (1) of directive 101/2008 provides that, where a third country adopts measures to reduce the climate change impact of flights departing from that country and landing in the community, the commission will examine the options available to ensure optimal interaction between the community scheme and the measures available in that country.
article 25a (2) of directive 101/2008 also states that member states and the community shall continue to work towards agreement on comprehensive measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from aviation.
the inclusion of aviation in the eu its is an important step forward in the fight against climate change, because this change is occurring at a global level and the legislation in force needs to act at this level.
meeting this demand will not only reduce the competitiveness of european airlines but also hinder the fight against climate change.
i ask the commission and the council to involve the european parliament in the negotiations with third countries to obtain the mandatory inclusion of companies from these countries in the emissions trading scheme.
i believe that areas such as energy security and efficiency, investment, innovation and climate change should be on the agenda of the european council.
i welcome the fact that at the european council in october the eu will reaffirm its firm commitment to combating climate change and agree on the eu position at the cancun conference.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
- i voted for this report because biocides to combat harmful organisms and pathogens are going to be safer, including from an ecological point of view.
the new regulation must take account of three fundamental areas: environmental protection, consumer protection and safe and practical implementation by producers.
- i voted for this report because 'biocides' to combat harmful organisms and pathogens are to be safer, including from an ecological point of view.
the new regulation must take account of three fundamental areas: environmental protection, consumer protection and safe and practical implementation by producers.
i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that the eu must act in solidarity and effectively to ensure that local people have access to health and education services in the first place, and to exploit the tourist and economic potential of europe's mountains to create jobs without compromising the ecological balance.
three projects submitted by the chisinau municipality in the field of public lighting, the use of renewable energy resources and ecoremediation have passed the first selection stage only after one year, which is a problem of excessive bureaucracy.
the deep-sea drilling licences must be strictly controlled, but this is not enough to prevent black tides, real ecological disasters that the european union cannot accept.
efforts to protect the environment must be pursued in a sustained manner and the european union must play its role as protector of its citizens and of nature, in harmony with which we all must live, by regulating oil extraction activities.
oil spills, which have occurred in the past, would have catastrophic consequences for the environment, while also harming fisheries or tourism.
for this reason, european environmental liability legislation must also include damage to marine waters.
the deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico and the spill of a significant amount of oil into the atlantic ocean have and will have a major impact on global climate.
the council and the commission must act clearly and transparently by adopting measures to guarantee the safety and security of oil extraction operations and a high level of environmental protection and the prevention of ecological disasters in the european union!
the european union must maintain its position on climate change and at the same time protect and facilitate the proper exploitation of oil fields in order to guarantee the need for fossil fuel.
the review of environmental legislation and of health and safety legislation relating to deep drilling is a welcome and necessary process.
the human, social and environmental costs of the deep water horizon disaster are impossible to quantify in financial terms.
i would like to begin by stressing the urgent need for the european union to adopt a clear and united position on biodiversity at cop10 in nagoya.
ensuring environmental sustainability is one of the millennium development goals, with direct and dramatic implications for people's lives.
pollution and the unreasonable exploitation of agricultural land, forests, and water resources are causing climate change that is threatening the earth's natural resources.
i believe that the historical responsibility of developed countries for the material and ecological state of the planet should be an additional argument for policies that counter the current trend of encouraging the unsustainable exploitation of natural resources in developing countries, dependent on the export of raw materials.
if we think about the environmental, social and financial consequences of the destruction of biodiversity, we cannot underestimate the importance of the forthcoming nagoya conference.
the ecological disaster in hungary, which killed four people, hit seven towns and affected the ecosystems of several rivers, threatening to affect the danube and danube delta in romania, provides a sad backdrop for today's discussion, but also a serious call for stronger action to protect the environment and biodiversity.
the environment committee's resolution on biodiversity contains many important elements, but i would like to highlight a few that i consider essential.
europe can be divided into nine distinct biogeographical regions based on similarities in climate, topography, geology and vegetation.
the biodiversity in this region is extremely rich.
since 1991, the danube delta has been a unesco world heritage site, and the danube area comprises several special protection areas and special conservation areas under natura 2000. as the danube and danube delta constitute a unique and fragile ecosystem, which harbours rare plant species threatened by pollution, we believe it is important that the european commission sometimes improves its capacity to predict and respond to floods, severe drought and accidental pollution.
the european union has taken several measures to protect diversity, biodiversity.
in the context of this debate, i would like to highlight the important role of the teeb project, funded by several european countries, which calculates the financial value of nature and the costs of biodiversity loss.
i would like to mention just a few figures recently presented by teeb: the cost of deforestation is about $4.5 trillion a year; according to other, equally recent estimates, over a quarter of the world's original biodiversity has disappeared by the year 2000, and by 2050 a further loss of over 10% is expected.
this year is a crucial moment to strengthen international efforts and commitments to halt biodiversity loss.
we must seize this moment to set clear vision and targets for biodiversity and its sustainable conservation beyond 2010. we need to define a strong common position and have the european union actively involved in the future international negotiations.
a long-term global vision must take into account the links between biodiversity, ecosystem services, climate change, desertification, economic prosperity, and the health and well-being of citizens.
the achievement of the proposed biodiversity objectives and targets is conditional on the mobilisation of the resources necessary for the proper implementation of measures for the conservation and sustainable use of natural resources.
in this respect, romania supports greater involvement of the private and public sectors in finding innovative solutions and mechanisms for biodiversity financing.
the lisbon treaty reaffirms that the union is acting for the sustainable development of europe.
the eu economy is a highly competitive social market economy with full employment, social progress and a high level of environmental protection and improvement as its objectives.
the economic and financial crisis has dramatically affected the social climate, with the main concern of european citizens today being their jobs and quality of life.
sustainable social policies, including health, should be at the heart of the state's priority functions in a context of sustainable and inclusive growth.
i ask the european commission that the future economic, social and territorial cohesion policy of the european union allocate significant amounts to the transport sector, in particular to intermodality and also to the energy efficiency of housing.
we need a single european regional policy that will bring sustainable growth, job creation and modernisation across the union.
as the body of the resolution points out, europe is not immune from such incidents with devastating environmental impact either, because most oil drilling and extraction takes place in the north sea.
the current environmental liability legislation contains a number of important shortcomings and i therefore consider it necessary to introduce new legislation to take into account the risks inherent in offshore exploitation and to regulate liability in the event of accidents in the oil sector.
the absence of an oil disaster compensation fund requires that in future the commission include mandatory financial guarantee provisions in the environmental liability directive.
the european commission is currently reviewing eu environmental liability legislation and should propose solutions to avoid environmental disasters such as the recent one in hungary, created by the dumping of a large amount of red mud.
− i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu strategic objectives for the 10th conference of the parties to the nagoya convention on biological diversity, primarily because i am convinced that the preservation of biological diversity is a factor in sustainable development for developing countries.
and the fact that neither the global biodiversity target for 2010 to significantly reduce the rate of biodiversity loss, nor the eu target to halt biodiversity loss, has been met, makes further action to achieve them all the more urgent.
i agree that biodiversity conservation issues are only sporadically present in public debate, and therefore support the motion in the body of the resolution for a more sustained and applied effort to promote biodiversity conservation measures among citizens.
just as important, i think, is the effort to make biodiversity conservation part of civic education in our countries.
− given that halting biodiversity loss is not an urgent priority on the european and international political calendar, i welcome the implementation and adoption of a set of concrete, science-based indicators to measure progress on biodiversity towards the european union's strategic objectives and targets.
this has led to a waste of resources and created additional problems for the countries concerned.
calls on the member states to take concrete measures to create decent and sustainable jobs, to promote adequate income and social protection systems to prevent and reduce poverty, in particular extreme poverty, and to develop long- and medium-term strategies that include a gender perspective and are mainstreamed in all relevant policy areas.
however, i would draw the attention of the commission and the member states to the need to develop an eu industrial policy that is sustainable and creates new jobs.
this will help to eradicate job insecurity, low wages, often undeclared, the lack of social protection for casual workers and a work environment lacking minimum standards of health and safety and protection of workers against accidents.
− i believe that member states must fight to be able to offer women jobs, the possibility of trade union protection of rights, as well as decent pay, maternity leave, fair and regular work schedules and a non-discriminatory working environment.
i believe that the sustainability of the pension system, credit facilities for self-help projects and programmes to create jobs and alternative incomes can improve conditions for women in precarious employment.
we really need to be in solidarity with the hungarian state, especially at this time when the ecological disaster has spread and the toxic substance discharged from the plant's tanks has already reached the danube waters.
for this reason, i ask the european commission to be directly involved in the management of the situation, to support the hungarian state by all means and to ask the responsible authorities to submit documents and data on the following issues: a report on the effects of each chemical compound identified in the ecosystems, a report including the quantities spilled and detailing the effects of the spill on fauna and flora, as well as a report on the measures taken by the hungarian authorities, more precisely the amount of chemicals that were dumped as a countermeasure and the effects of the new substances on the environment.
the european commission is the only one able to request this information in order to prevent the ecological disaster from spreading to the other member states bordering the danube and, where appropriate, to take immediate action to combat the effects of this disaster.
that is why i am going to put a written question to the commission, because i expect that, in addition to the preparation of a strategy to prevent such disasters in the future, it will present us as soon as possible with concrete measures to be applied immediately in the event of an ecological catastrophe in hungary.
we already have a full environmental acquis in the european mining waste directive.
obviously, companies have had way too much leverage in negotiating with national authorities over what constitutes hazardous waste that should fall under the strictest safety standards.
this case also demonstrates that the commission should be given more means to ensure correct implementation of environmental law, especially in central and eastern europe.
last but not least, i should like to emphasise that the basic principle should be that polluters pay for the environmental damage they cause.
this is why i am unsure that the use of the eu solidarity fund for natural disasters would be appropriate, as it may undermine this principle at the core of the environmental liability directive.
we regret to note that after ten years, major risks to human and environmental safety still exist in europe.
this is the result of insufficient or poorly implemented environmental and disaster prevention regulations.
the criteria for classifying toxic and hazardous waste must be revised.
note that red sludge, such as that produced by the kolontar accident, is not classified as hazardous waste.
i express my solidarity with the people affected by the ecological disaster in hungary earlier this month.
economic activity is not, in itself, dangerous, as long as strict environmental protection rules are respected.
a team of experts from various countries has travelled to the country to assist the authorities in their efforts to counter the devastating effects on the population and the environment.
i regret the loss of life caused by the dumping of industrial waste in hungary.
but as far as industrial waste with the potential to be destructive to human life and the environment is concerned, we have rules in the european union.
but unfortunately we find that these rules are not respected in every member state; i therefore propose that the commission should set itself the objective of checking the quality of the national institutions responsible for applying european rules on the disposal of potentially hazardous industrial waste.
i think that we need, first of all, major investment in infrastructure of all kinds, whether it be transport, energy or telecommunications.
to achieve the objectives of the 'eu 2020 strategy', the eu should reduce its energy dependence on its traditional suppliers.
in the first half of this year, the eu27's energy trade deficit increased by eur 34.3 billion compared with the same period last year.
the european council should therefore include on its agenda for 28-29 october the future industrial policy and energy security of the eu, as well as proposals on mitigating the effects of climate change and demography.
the simplistic argument of short-term economic benefits did not hold, and the sustainability of european society prevailed, which is impossible to achieve without a healthy demography, and therefore implicitly without greater protection for mothers and children.
− the transposition of the eu 2020 strategy into national programmes by member states must contribute to the achievement of a competitive, social and sustainable union, with citizens and environmental protection at the heart of policy-making.
a priority should be to support a healthy business environment and the achievement of a functioning market economy in ukraine by encouraging their property and vat reforms and their efforts to combat high-level corruption, among other priorities.
this is why i see the association agreement as a powerful instrument of reform, and it is why we should continue our negotiations on the establishment of a deep and comprehensive free trade area and on ukraine’s accession to the energy community treaty.
- ladies and gentlemen, at its meeting on 14 october the council adopted conclusions on the position of the european union with a view to the cancún climate conference, at which the global framework for climate protection is to be discussed.
on the basis of this text, the european council meeting in october next week, on 18 and 19 october, will establish the european union's position for the 16th conference of the parties to the united nations convention on climate change.
as the council has just indicated, the european union hopes that the cancún meeting will lead to the adoption of a balanced set of decisions contributing to the establishment of an international regime for climate protection after 2012. several bilateral meetings and contacts will take place before cancún and will be an opportunity to explain our positions to our partners.
mr. minister, i would like to ask you if you are considering linking the climate change and pollution reduction targets to the millennium development goals, because, it is true, there are developing countries who feel that it is too expensive for them to move to a process of reducing emissions, but this can mean creating jobs and, by implication, a sustainable economy.
so i ask you if you're going to make a link between the millennium development goals and climate change.
additionally, we have engaged with moldova in a dedicated dialogue on human rights and in an energy dialogue, and are negotiating an aviation services agreement.
at the same time, we need to ensure that this policy is adequately funded for the next programming period, thus generating a new approach that aims to promote the optimal development of all maritime activities in a sustainable way and covering all sea basins.
so we'll get much more benefits with less impact on the environment.
the transnistrian issue is also very important for the stability of the republic of moldova and the entire region, and the eu has a major role to play in implementing a negotiated and sustainable solution.
the strengthening of macro-financial assistance to the republic of moldova, the encouragement of structural reforms, the fight against corruption and the stimulation of the investment environment, as well as the entry as soon as possible into the operational phase of the dialogue on visa liberalisation for moldovan citizens - are essential elements of european support for a state whose place is in the european union.
− with one third of eu citizens living in coastal regions, and this trend increasing, i believe that the climate challenge must be a major concern in european maritime policy.
i therefore believe that we need to approach the exploitation of the potential of the seas from an ecologically and economically sustainable perspective.
like other european policies, the integrated maritime policy can contribute to an important objective of a competitive, social and sustainable union with a high level of employment, and the maritime sector can be even more attractive for young people or other jobseekers.
as eu trade policies have an important role to play in meeting the millennium development goals, i believe we need to put more emphasis on supporting central and south american countries in fighting poverty, increasing purchasing power and sustainable development.
while the anti-terrorist operation in chechnya was officially declared over last year, violence and the climate of impunity continue there, but even more so in neighbouring dagestan and also in ingushetia.
we pay tribute to all those who have lost their lives and to those who continue their work in such an environment.
european research must find solutions to the great challenges facing society: ageing populations, climate change, energy supply and energy efficiency, raw material shortages, the sustainability of economic and social development.
a sustainable, smart and inclusive economy, in order to achieve the objectives of strategy 2020, is achieved by encouraging the research and innovation sector.
in this context, the union and the member states should take measures to ensure the sustainability of pension systems.
it is also necessary to increase eurostat's sustainable development indicators in all member states.
research and innovation are two of the cornerstones of the europe 2020 strategy for improving competitiveness, sustainable growth and job creation.
i recall that in 2009, when the european union's economic recovery plan was first discussed, the commission committed to allocating one billion euros to energy efficiency in housing.
i have asked, through an amendment, that the level of management expenditure and the costs associated with the creation and implementation of the instrument should not exceed 5% of the value of each use, so that the bulk of the sum does not go to financial intermediaries but goes to investments for projects related to energy efficiency in housing and the use of renewable energy.
i congratulate mrs van brempt on her report and believe that energy efficiency should be at the top of the energy strategy of the european union.
the 'energy 2020' strategy, launched yesterday by the european commission, is an important step towards a secure and competitive energy market in europe.
it offers solutions to important problems such as diversifying supply routes and sources, reducing energy consumption or coordinating with third countries.
the european energy recovery programme has as its main objective to facilitate the financing of investments in this area.
effective implementation requires that all environmental legislation is complied with and that project promoters meet their funding commitments.
in conclusion, i would like to stress the importance of public-private partnerships, which are a key element in implementing solutions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
the european energy programme for economic recovery provides a financial package of eur 3,98 billion for 2009 and 2010. the creation of a special financial instrument for the use of the funds from this energy programme that could not be committed by the end of 2010 was imperative in order not to lose the rest of the financial package.
a particularly important aspect mentioned in the regulation on the european energy programme is the balanced geographical distribution of projects, which is an essential element in order to ensure the impact of this regulation on economic recovery across the union and which recognises that in certain member states there have been projects that have either not been funded or have been only partially funded.
last but not least, i would stress the importance of renewing these types of financial instruments aimed at the union's long-term energy efficiency.
− access of local and regional public authorities to investment project financing for renewable energy and energy efficiency projects needs to be improved.
i welcome the exchange of experience between local and regional authorities in the member states in developing cost-effective energy efficiency projects and in meeting climate change commitments.
- i voted for the strengthening of the osce, based on the need to achieve a congruence of the three major dimensions underlying the organisation: political-military, economic-environmental and human.
− research makes a fundamental contribution to economic growth, job creation and clean and sustainable energy.
i believe that much more research is needed to measure the impact of environmental and climate policies on employment, and i call on the commission to give priority to this area in the eighth framework programme.
− given that european producers are at a competitive disadvantage compared to producers in third countries because their production costs are higher, largely due to the need to comply with very high standards in animal health and welfare, food safety, environmental protection and working conditions, i consider the european commission's involvement in ensuring an adequate supply of feed grain to be unwarranted.
mr president, mr rapporteur, honourable members of parliament, mr balz, ladies and gentlemen, members of the european parliament, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, the committee on the environment, have all made a very good report.
it started with a severe economic downturn worldwide following the outbreak of the financial crisis in autumn 2008. in this environment of subdued inflationary pressures, we continued with our policy of lowering our key rates further.
in this sense, the euro system over the past 12 years has operated as an anchor of stability and confidence and has done so during the most recent times, despite the challenging environment created by the global financial crisis.
the ecb has, both through its monitoring stance and its non-standard measures, been instrumental in the fire-fighting to overcome the crisis and thus in laying the foundations for sustainable growth and job creation.
the commission must also propose specific targets to reduce the competitiveness gap between european economies and, not least, aim to invest in green energy.
considers it necessary to ensure a balance between the process of economic consolidation and the protection of investments through jobs and sustainable development.
we also have to take into account the need to prevent and combat fraud, but until this strategy is finalised, i believe that the extension of the transitional provision on the minimum vat rate until 31 december 2015 is a decision designed to ensure certainty for the business environment, to prevent structural imbalances in the european union and to encourage the harmonisation of tax legislation.
the new vat strategy should aim to reduce administrative burdens, remove tax obstacles and improve the business environment, especially for smes.
for a europe that strives to overcome today’s health and inequalities, this is not sustainable.
– the environment committee has made some important improvements to the commission's proposal which, in its original form, would not have prevented all forms of advertising of prescription drugs directly to patients.
coal is an important part of the european union's energy mix.
these development plans should aim at job creation and investments in energy efficiency and renewable energy production.
i have already heard the views of my colleagues who have stressed the importance of coal for the energy security of the european economy.
the only resource that my country and other countries had immediately available to increase energy production was coal.
the plans for vocational retraining and ecological rehabilitation of areas take a long time and, especially in the current crisis situation, it would be normal to also make use of the european structural funds, taking into account the social, economic and ecological importance for the european union.
and then - another piece of context - we're talking about the new energy strategy of the european union.
in preparing this document, the rapporteur has achieved an important step - that of finding an answer to two questions: the environmental question and the question on social protection.
at the same time, the closure of the mines will also have a significant influence on the energy sector.
the importance of these areas for economic and social development is recognised both in the european union and in ukraine through cooperation in various areas of common interest: environment and climate change, health, green energy, information society, industry and agriculture, etc.
− cooperation between the european union and jordan in the field of scientific and technological cooperation is one of the priorities of the eu-mediterranean cooperation through the european neighbourhood policy and the eu strategy for strengthening relations with neighbouring countries and is closely aligned with the jordanian government's executive programme on promoting a sustainable socio-economic reform process in the country.
in this context, i believe that aid will have to be directed more towards covering social and environmental consequences.
the transitional period granted for the making of these mines profitable or their closure is important and has the role of, on the one hand, achieving the vocational retraining of the population involved in the coal industry and, on the other hand, achieving a gradual transition to less polluting energy sources.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
sustaining economic recovery and securing our societies for the future remains the overarching priority in 2011. our efforts will continue along three main tracks: strengthening governance, completing financial sector reform and accelerating our implementation of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
for europe to remain competitive and secure more and better jobs, the transition to a low-carbon, resource-efficient society must be carefully planned.
therefore, bringing together the policies on climate change, energy, transport and environment will be a priority.
a particular focus in 2011 will be on energy efficiency.
we have been devising big strategies such as the climate package, the energy package and the 2020 strategy: schemes after schemes.
we should focus on simple things which have an obvious impact on europe’s competitiveness, such as resource efficiency, cutting energy costs, reforming the agriculture policy, and the future of transport.
we also look forward to the legislative initiative on smart energy networks.
i would conclude by saying that the digital agenda and energy efficiency, areas that contribute both to job creation and to the competitiveness of the european union, together with social europe, should be our main priorities for 2011.
this debate is particularly timely as the eu's economic recovery has remained fragile and member states still face a deteriorating labour market situation.
it is clear that greece is one of the countries where more flexibility could help to boost the business investment climate, as is the case with spain.
the current economic crisis and structural factors such as globalisation, technological progress, an ageing population and the transition to a low-carbon economy have demonstrated the need to adapt european employment policies and have challenged the community institutions to come up with relevant solutions to increase unemployment and fight poverty.
europe needs to develop its competitiveness in an increasingly competitive international environment.
given that the energy-climate change package already imposes certain targets on member states on reducing polluting emissions and increasing energy efficiency, i would like to ask you what measures are you taking to support companies in the energy-intensive industrial sectors to modernise their installations so that they become more energy-efficient and less polluting?
it is clear that this has nothing to do with the sovereignty of member states in deciding tax matters because, even within the ccctb environment, they will be able to decide on corporate tax rates, based on their needs, their social systems, public services and so on.
please support us, commissioner, in the revision of the energy taxation directive to achieve a reduced vat rate on electricity used for irrigation.
an international transaction tax on the globalised financial sector is the best way to fund international objectives in areas such as development aid and climate change.
− i voted in favour of the conclusion of the protocol, which will allow the republic of moldova to participate more closely in certain community programmes, providing an opportunity to promote cooperation in the fields of culture, education, the environment and technical and scientific cooperation, as well as to strengthen political relations through the eastern partnership and to accelerate negotiations on the new association agreement.
i welcome the participation of the republic of moldova in certain community programmes, which allows the promotion of cooperation in areas such as culture, education, environment and technical and scientific cooperation, as well as the strengthening of political relations through the eastern partnership and the acceleration of the negotiations on the new association agreement.
participation in certain community programmes for moldova will encourage this neighbour country to implement its reforms, offering an opportunity to promote further cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific links, in addition to the reinforcing of political relations through the eastern partnership and the negotiation of the new association agreement.
as the market continues to develop and innovation cycles become shorter, equipment replacement is accelerating, making waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) the fastest growing complex waste source, with the volume of new weee expected to increase to 12,3 million tonnes by 2020. the essential aspects of this reform of the directive are: - the open scope; - the distinction between rohs and reach; - the modification of the criteria for exemptions; - the criteria for deciding on the length of the exemption/grace periods; - codecision for future restrictions instead of comitology; - specific provisions on nanomaterials.
i voted for this report because the new proposal for a directive is simpler, will give producers an easier tool to use when classifying their products under the directive and will take account of the socioeconomic impact linked to the protection of health and the environment when amending the criteria for exemptions.
− electronic equipment produces the fastest growing waste stream in europe, and reducing the carcinogenic and toxic substances from this waste stream must be a top priority.
the open scope of the legislation, as recommended by the environment committee, is a much better approach than that proposed by the commission.
but we still need to adopt ambitious legislation which will encourage the rest of industry to follow the lead of others and to innovate in order to ensure better environmental protection.
the union's energy strategy should focus on energy efficiency, reducing primary energy consumption and energy poverty, promoting renewable energy and the union's energy security.
however, it is essential that the union's energy strategy is also linked to industrial policy, transport policy, research and innovation policy and climate change policy.
we call on the commission and the member states to develop the necessary financial and fiscal instruments for energy efficiency, in particular in the building sector, and to give priority to energy efficiency and smart energy infrastructure in the future multiannual financial framework.
the union must attach greater importance to the eastern partnership and in particular to the black sea region, a region of particular geostrategic importance for the union's energy security and for the diversification of its energy supply routes.
we invite the commission and the member states to continue the implementation of the european southern gas corridor project, in particular the nabucco project, which could significantly improve the security of energy supply.
energy is a major priority that cannot be delayed and it is important that the future action plan 2011-2020 makes a significant contribution to strengthening the common policy of the european union.
we need close cooperation, particularly in the field of energy infrastructure, and adequate european funding.
i believe that, in addition to public and community funding, in order to develop a strategic infrastructure at union level, which will drive the expansion and integration of all local, regional and european energy markets, we must pay greater attention to the private sector and investments from here.
this will help us to secure the much-needed funding for the future of any energy policy.
in my view, improving the eu's renewable energy potential is one of the most important elements of the report.
infrastructure is another key element for a functioning energy market.
the agri interconnector, one of romania's first contributions to the development of energy infrastructure, is low cost and offers an alternative.
diversification of sources, a new energy infrastructure, increasing the share of renewable sources are important for the union's energy future.
but at the same time we must not abandon the use of old energy sources, of course, improved by innovative technologies, according to the possibilities and needs of each member state.
we must not have a situation where there is a surplus of energy on the european energy market because it cannot be bought because of high prices.
it is time to talk about a real european energy strategy.
currently, there is a lack of implementation of eu energy legislation.
through the provisions of the lisbon treaty, the european union has a firm legal framework for developing a functioning single market, guaranteeing security of supply, sustainability, network interconnection and solidarity.
in this context, the new member states, which are much more vulnerable to external disruptions to energy supply, need the support of the european union to face these challenges.
the proposed energy strategy should promote a diversified combination of energy sources, namely renewable energy and nuclear energy, in the long term.
however, this strategy cannot be viable unless the transmission network is strengthened to support market integration and the development of large-scale sustainable energy production.
these abandoned lands could also be exploited for renewable energy.
the example of romania, which is the one i am most familiar with, is instructive: some three million hectares remain unused, and the energy lost on this area is about 187 terawatts per hour.
the call to the commission to propose a policy framework and support the continued promotion of the use of sustainable second generation biofuels in europe is timely and i hope it will be taken up by the ec.
mr president, being an optimistic person, i consider that a step forward is now possible at cancún in the form of a balanced package that will allow countries to take faster, stronger actions across all areas of climate change.
it is therefore of high importance to re-establish europe’s leading position within the international climate negotiations by introducing the climate diplomacy principle, and for the european union and its member states to define and implement a principle of climate justice, advocating therefore an equity clause in future international climate negotiations.
i stress the importance of establishing the mechanism that regulates the funding of the financial aspects of climate change.
new innovative sources of revenue, such as a financial transaction tax, green funds or private sources will be necessary to raise the money required in order to implement climate change adaptation and mitigation projects and to achieve green growth, which contributes to a good life for citizens, and fair growth.
let us also not forget the gender dimension in climate change policies.
climate change is certainly the greatest challenge facing humanity today.
at copenhagen, developed countries were expected to support developing countries' action plans to combat the effects of climate change through various means.
the importance of an international agreement to reduce carbon emissions is essential.
at cancun, the eu must express a common position on the objectives it has to achieve and take into account that the success of the 2020 strategy is conditional on meeting the climate change objective.
in this context, i would stress the role of partnerships aimed at developing the potential of sustainable energy at regional level and encouraging regions to use renewable energy.
in my view, the european commission's 11 november communication is welcome and i would particularly like to welcome the emphasis in this document on the need to complement development cooperation with concrete measures that could trigger sustainable and inclusive growth in this region.
while a new tax code is a good step towards improving the fiscal environment, this should not become a burden, especially on smes, which play such an important role in any healthy economy.
the partnership with ukraine is also a natural one for romania, given its important role in the black sea region and the common challenges in the field of energy security.
copenhagen was one of them, and the whole planet was waiting for the european union to take the lead in the fight against climate change and to lead reluctant states in the same direction.
there are national governments that are not really ready to make strong commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and one sure explanation could be the economic and financial crisis that has slowed their momentum to engage in developing an ambitious climate policy.
however, tackling climate change at both local and global levels must be a continuing concern for the world's states.
it is not right that developing countries should be left to pay the costs of global warming while the industrialized countries are pursuing a pragmatic and individualistic approach.
cancun must be a legally binding global operational agreement to help keep global warming below 2 degrees celsius.
nor can the european union's singular effort to combat climate change guarantee the success of an agreement for the period after 2012. we need to convince other parties to make more ambitious commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
last but not least, i want to focus on the relationship between international trade and climate change.
it should be borne in mind that in europe, european industrial and commercial companies are subject to strict compliance with social and environmental standards.
if the european union complies with binding standards, it must be able to demand the same from its trading partners, in particular emerging countries, and to promote quality and sustainability requirements, especially for food products entering its territory, in order to maintain fair and equitable trade.
in this respect, the high standards of the european single market in health, safety, environment, worker and consumer protection constitute a specific european model, which should serve as a source of inspiration at international level and in multilateral contexts and should be reflected in the ongoing negotiations on bilateral trade agreements.
− public broadcasting services must remain independent of the political environment and must have adequate financial resources to ensure quality and accessible information programmes for all citizens in any area of the country.
− the new energy strategy for europe aims to implement the lisbon treaty on a single energy market, security of supply, energy efficiency, reducing import dependence and increasing domestic energy production.
i support this resolution because the european union needs the swift implementation of energy legislation and overall energy strategies.
we need a long-term vision of energy policy to ensure the proper functioning of this market, supporting modern integrated networks, improving the exploitation of the union's energy efficiency potential, promoting research and development and innovation in the field and placing the benefits for consumers at the heart of european energy policy.
i therefore voted in favour of this report, which is a first step towards a comprehensive community energy policy in the context of the eu 2020 strategy.
− the eu's energy security policy should enable it to anticipate, not just react to, gas crises such as the one in 2009. this must be done in parallel with the achievement of the stated targets of a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and a 20% reduction in consumption by 2020. the task is not easy, especially since the financial effort for environmental objectives alone will amount to €58 billion.
add to this the financial effort to reduce the eu's growing dependence on external energy resources.
internal and external aspects must be combined to make the eu energy-vulnerable and its policies must be adapted accordingly.
all measures to ensure the proper functioning of the internal energy market should be accompanied by dynamic diplomacy aimed at strengthening cooperation with the main producing, transit and consuming countries.
− i voted in favour of the resolution on the new energy strategy for europe 2011-2020. under this resolution, the main objectives are to move to a low-carbon energy system and to guarantee the security of energy supply for all member states.
these two objectives must ensure both the eu's competitiveness and the distribution of energy at affordable prices, with secure supplies.
i believe that extending the rules of the eu's internal energy market to neighbouring countries and efforts to diversify energy sources and transport routes for energy imports are essential to guarantee energy security.
− the european union has set itself a series of very ambitious targets for the next decade, one of which is to increase energy efficiency by 2020. it is an objective that will allow for increased investment in the field and, by implication, create new jobs in both rural and urban areas.
in this context, i believe that it is useful to provide financial incentives for such projects, but also to launch campaigns to inform citizens about energy efficiency and the use of resources that consumer products and products with an energy impact can offer.
− i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution of 25 november 2010 on the un climate change conference in cancun to meet the global target of limiting the increase in annual average surface temperature to 2°c (the '2°c target').
the scientific case for climate change and its effects is more than clear, so it is crucial to create a legislative framework to ensure that these measures are implemented.
− i believe that the european union and the member states must define and implement the principle of climate equity and therefore the introduction of an equity clause in future international climate negotiations.
i think the biggest injustice would be if the world were unable to limit climate change, because especially the poor people in poor countries would suffer.
− trade in goods and services generates around 20% of global greenhouse gas emissions.
support the continuation of trade policies aimed at differentiating products and services according to their climate impact.
i voted in favour of this resolution because it identifies further steps that will allow the european union to continue on this path, reinforce the positive interaction between trade and climate protection, the instruments that ensure trade-climate coherence and encourage fair prices in international trade while avoiding carbon emissions.
i want to stress that the european union cannot take a leading role in the fight against climate change unless it strengthens the competitiveness of its economy through energy saving and the development of renewable energy sources.
these are two sectors with high potential for industrial development, innovation, spatial planning, job creation and can improve european energy security.
− i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the rapporteur's text is moving towards bold commitments by the european union to combat climate change.
the resolution proposes to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by up to 30% at eu level.
in my capacity as virtual rapporteur for the s&d political group, i also stressed, by submitting amendments to the original text, the need to create a world environment organisation and to introduce environmental criteria into the gsp reform.
− to play a leading role in the fight against climate change, the european union needs to strengthen the competitiveness of its economy through energy saving and the use of renewable energy sources, two sectors that can improve its energy security and have high potential in terms of industrial development, innovation, spatial planning and job creation.
this is because trade in goods and services is responsible for about 20% of global greenhouse gas emissions.
but the eu has already taken the first steps in the right direction with regard to illegal imports of wood, biofuels, and aviation emissions.
it should be borne in mind that in europe companies are subject to strict social and environmental standards.
the eu must be able to demand the same from its trading partners, especially emerging countries, and promote quality and sustainability requirements, especially for food products entering its territory, in order to maintain fair and equitable trade.
in doing so, we will ensure that the foreign policies we put in place effectively contribute to sustainable social and economic development and that businesses abide by our internationally agreed norms and values.
europe faces a difficult task because, alongside the effects of the current crisis, it will also have to face other major challenges, such as adaptation to globalisation, demographic change, climate change and energy security issues.
we need to support large, high-impact projects at european level that will generate growth, create jobs and ensure sustainable development of regions.
particular importance should also be attached to investments in infrastructure of all types, namely transport, it&c, social, educational, research and development and environment, which will allow for an adequate level of accessibility for all european citizens and give them equal opportunities for development potential.
i believe that the europe 2020 strategy must promote a sustainable development agenda.
for example, if one of our major objectives is to increase the share of renewable energy, but we also want to be more energy efficient, then the question of researching how to store electricity, keep it ready and then make it available when i need it is very important in order to be even more efficient in the generation of energy.
we want a new approach to multi-level governance that truly serves the union's core objectives, namely a people's europe characterised by economic growth, social progress and sustainable development.
another example is the recent large-scale ecological disaster in hungary.
the emphasis on the pre-legislative stage in the decision-making process and the added value of policies and best practices applied at local and regional level for the development of eu territorial strategies contribute to ensuring their effectiveness and sustainability.
the amendments will create a hostile environment for traffickers, protect victims and make the prevention of trafficking more rigorous, because fundamental rights must be respected.
in the coming programming period, successful models in the 'knowledge triangle' need to be promoted and applied to ensure the sustainable development of the regional strategic framework programmes for research and innovation.
the report recommends that member states and the ec pay greater attention to supporting major projects covering two or more operational programmes with a major impact at european level: generating added value, creating high-quality jobs and protecting the sustainable development of regions.
then we will also have a discussion on the 2050 low-carbon strategy that we will present by march – including, as i said, the 2030 target because, if we know where we are going to be by 2050, it is also very clear that there are some trade-offs involved.
you all know that cancún is a pragmatic but very important step in climate policy and the climate debate.
after long negotiations, the united nations climate change conference in cancun concluded with a positive compromise.
the result is not a record, but it is an important step towards tackling climate change.
i welcome the decisions taken as they will facilitate the progress of the negotiations in the next period and ensure important progress, in particular on the components targeting developing countries and those most exposed to the effects of climate change.
between 50 and 125 million european citizens are affected by energy poverty.
that's why we think that energy-saving and energy-efficient policies in this area, social housing, should be a priority.
we therefore believe that innovative financing schemes and tax incentives are needed to make energy efficiency investments attractive and to provide long-term institutional support.
unfortunately, the 400 representatives of local and regional authorities said that it was not known at local and regional level that it was possible for all member states to use 4% of the european regional development fund's national allocation for energy efficiency in buildings.
i therefore conclude, commissioner, by asking you to use the mid-term evaluation to allocate more funding to energy efficiency programmes and, in particular, to promote the possibility of using up to 15% of the european regional development fund for energy efficiency in the future financial perspective.
i would also like to stress the importance of promoting energy efficiency it brings significant benefits to the whole economy.
i believe that the development and commercialisation of new, cutting-edge energy technologies is indispensable.
the competitiveness of european energy-consuming businesses in the context of global competition must be maintained.
support agreement on a common methodology for measuring national energy efficiency targets and monitoring progress.
i also welcome the work of the commission 'towards a single energy network'.
i can hardly imagine a municipality applying directly to the commission for money, but opening up regional programmes more to the energy renovation of existing buildings seems to me to be a very important step for the next financial period at the latest.
on the subject of existing buildings, i would like to point out one thing: it has been said many times that increasing energy efficiency saves money.
so that means we need to invest in the next 10 years so that in the next 40 years, we can reduce energy expenditure and reinvest.
now, for the first time, we have the opportunity to invest in energy efficiency so that we and our children can see the return of lower energy expenditures in the decades ahead.
by the way, the latest decision of the european council in march of this year, literally 'and moving towards 20 per cent increase in energy efficiency' is already a little less consistent.
the march 2007 decision refers to projections of 2020 energy consumption from which 20% should be deducted.
let me give you three columns of numbers, and you'll see what we have to solve here for problems that haven't been raised before: energy consumption in italy in million tonnes 2007 the projection for 2020 is up to 208 and then minus 20%.
or a very small country, luxembourg, with energy consumption in 2007: 4.6 million tons.
by telling member states to make national energy efficiency plans now, voluntarily, but the 20% applies to everything.
energy efficiency measures are essential if the eu is to achieve its climate change targets.
we have a target of reducing energy consumption by 20%, but whereas for the other two targets we have directives that clearly state how the target will be achieved, for energy efficiency there is no such instrument.
that is why i insist on the need for an energy efficiency directive.
in addition, to achieve the desired results, energy efficiency needs to be promoted at all levels, in all national and european policies.
innovation is one of the keys to success in this perspective, which is why i believe that the future research framework programme should make energy efficiency a priority.
last but not least, i believe that public authorities need to set an example in this regard and transform the buildings they own into energy efficient buildings.
moreover, member states may promote energy efficiency through requirements imposed in public procurement procedures.
the european union must act to secure its energy future and protect its key energy interests.
to this end, the role of energy efficiency measures is critical in ensuring that the climate and energy targets are achieved at the lowest cost.
i believe that there is a need to launch broad consultations with local and regional representatives to set out well-defined directions in the field of energy efficiency and to provide support for the development of projects and access to the 9 billion euro made available by the commission through cohesion policy.
by using these funds wisely, we will be able to achieve the 20% energy efficiency target, which will greatly contribute to the sustainability and competitiveness objectives in the european union.
in addition, reducing consumption through energy efficiency is the most sustainable way to reduce dependence on fossil fuels and will generate a significant reduction in imports (approximately 25-26%).
– the benefits of reducing energy consumption and dependence in europe would be at once economic, environmental and political.
the energy efficiency action plan therefore has far-reaching implications.
i was rapporteur for the opinion of the environment committee on the contribution of ict to energy efficiency, and i know that one of the most important tasks here is to facilitate the integration of renewable energy sources into the power supply.
smart grids can help to achieve this, whilst smart metering in households can make us conscious of when we can save energy and so help us to reduce consumption.
however, concerns are raised by the scientific opinion of the scientific committee on health and environmental risks on the evaluation of the migration limits for chemical elements in toys, which states that the method used to measure the migration of chemical elements is not really reliable.
european citizens expect the european institutions to take stronger action, not just for financial stability, but above all for the return to sustainable economic growth.
it is time for the eu to take the necessary steps to ensure sustainable economic growth by investing in an industrial policy that ensures job creation and competitiveness and by making adequate investments in research, education and health.
i would also like to thank them for the very positive european energy radiating from this house during this debate.
− i would like to welcome this report on energy efficiency as it will increase energy security and it will serve to create social and economic advantages for the eu’s economy.
the s&d group have pointed out that energy resources are not evenly distributed among member states.
we must always consider european solidarity when legislating for energy efficiency.
it has been said that economising on energy is one of the quickest routes to energy efficiency.
promoting energy efficiency will create employment and it will save member state governments billions in heating costs on an annual basis.
i strongly welcome the creation of a lower carbon intensive society but we must be careful to strike the correct balance between member states based on their capabilities and resources.
i am concerned that member states such as romania will be expected to perform on a level playing field with other member states such as sweden, who have a proven track record in the area of energy efficiency.
financial perspective 8 will be a critical financing tool to encourage and promote energy efficiency from 2014 to 2020.
in writing.
− the energy efficiency report is very important for the adoption of the eu action plan in this area for the next few years and will have a huge impact on ways to reduce co2 emissions, economic growth, job creation in it, construction and services.
these consumers should benefit the most from energy efficiency improvements, but more financial resources are needed to make the necessary investments.
we also voted to establish energy efficiency funds at national, regional or local level.
these funds could play a fundamental role in the development of smes and companies providing energy efficiency services.
i voted against the legally binding target of at least 20% energy savings by 2020 because this eu-wide binding could have negative effects on the single market.
i believe that the transition to a sustainable and green economy will proceed without excessive legislation.
− energy efficiency is the most cost-effective and fastest way to reduce co2 and other emissions.
the commission will present a new revised plan at the beginning of 2011, which should contain the following elements: - a binding community target of at least 20% energy efficiency by 2020; - measures to combat energy poverty introduced in all energy policies; - the revision of the energy services directive in 2011; - encouraging investment in smart grids and the member states' compliance with the requirement of the third internal market legislative package to install smart devices in 80% of households by 2020; - member states to set annual targets for the renovation of buildings; - the commission to propose policies to achieve near-zero energy losses in buildings by 2050; - the commission to analyse innovative financing models, such as the development of sectoral funds to achieve energy efficiency targets.
i would like to begin by congratulating mrs andrikienė on the effort she has put into the report and i would also like to say that i voted in full in favour of amendment no 25, because i consider the climate of impunity in russia to be extremely dangerous.
the new bill will increase the climate of fear and hostility in a country where persecution of lgbt people is already under way.