it is therefore natural that the protection of the watercourse and its wider environment from pollution should be one of the main pillars of the above-standard cooperation of the participating countries.
at a time when europe is looking for renewable, clean energy sources, the danube river offers a powerful, inexhaustible source of this energy.
it is only necessary to dust some hydropower plans, assess them in terms of environmental impact, efficiency and return and implement them.
i am also convinced that this project will contribute to the development of transport, that it will contribute to the protection of the environment, that it will become a suitable platform for closer cooperation between the regions concerned in many areas.
however, i would also like to point out that the development of this strategy should place greater emphasis on environmental protection, and in particular on the protection of drinking water.
in this context, the future strategy should pay attention to improving groundwater supplies and to the removal of pollution from the danube.
the danube is already a traditional macro-region with great economic, social and cultural potential, whose integration and sustainable economic development need to be systematically and effectively deepened.
i see transport infrastructure, sustainable economy and environmental protection as key areas.
however, when formulating the strategy, we must not forget about transport safety, environmental safety, flood protection and the fight against cross-border crime.
the three pillars proposed by the commission, connectivity, environment and socioeconomic, are to form the basis of the whole strategy.
and this aspect will become increasingly important in the face of global warming and climate change.
the danube region needs to be protected against flooding and its sustainable development for future generations ensured.
last year, a very positive step was taken when the era amended the regulation on the european regional development fund to make it available to all member states to reduce the energy performance of buildings.
the eu failed especially in demonstrating a unified and efficient approach to climate change treatment, as well as in strengthening its leading political position in this agenda.
i consider, therefore, taking this resolution, an act of utmost importance, in order to demonstrate the unbroken spirit and determination of the eu as the leading force in the world in combating climate change.
we have to enhance and promote further activities aimed at climate change treatment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in supporting the resolution, i express my wish for the establishment of a 'climate diplomacy' at international level, the main objective of which should be the protection of creation.
parliament also announced that the eu's collective contribution to the mitigation efforts and adaptation needs of developing countries should not be less than eur 30 billion per year by 2020, with the understanding that this figure may increase as new knowledge emerges about the severity of climate change and the scale of its costs.
beyond all environmental romanticism, we must not forget our european industry.
reduction targets must be measurable, noticeable and verifiable by all, in the interest of climate justice.
the existence of an agreement guaranteeing sustainable trade is important to preserve these resources for the future.
the events of recent years have shown us that the energy security of the european union is more a wish than a reality.
the energy systems of the member states of the european union are not sufficiently compatible, they are not sufficiently interconnected.
for these reasons, the forthcoming council regulation on the notification of investment projects in the field of energy infrastructure can be considered a natural and necessary step in the continuation of the energy policy of the european union, responding to the current developments in the field of energy supply in the european union.
the treaty of lisbon, which has strengthened the european union's competences in the field of energy policy, should be actively used to overcome difficulties and to prevent potential problems on the energy market.
the provision of information on investment projects in energy infrastructure will contribute to identifying supply and demand gaps in the sector and thus to better shaping the common energy policy in a spirit of solidarity and to bringing member states closer together in the energy market.
for the reasons stated above, i agree with the view that some adequate information on planned investments needs to be gathered in order for the european union to be able to make informed decisions on energy policy on the basis of a coherent picture and its state in all member states.
− we all know that only by working together at european level can we meet the major challenges of the 21st century: climate change, the risky and expensive sources of raw materials and energy, economic globalisation and threats to our security.
the use of qualified majority voting in the council and the creation of a number of new legal bases in areas such as tourism, sport, energy, civil protection, administration, cooperation will be intensified.
however, when preparing the 2011 budget, we will need to set the new formula sensibly in order to ensure the sustainability of the budget in the period ahead.
i would like to stress that the best way to make the budget sustainable is to create it on the basis of real needs, not on the basis of inflation rates.
i am convinced that budgetary savings will be achieved through a medium-term strategy on property and buildings, which will contribute to the sustainability of parliament's budget.
it is therefore good that states and media suppliers provide crucial information on their energy supply capabilities to the european commission, which can then assess shortcomings in the european union's energy networks and security policy and inform individual countries about the reserves they have in their energy systems.
in this context, i think we need to support the initiative of the council and the commission to provide and collect information on energy for the benefit of the european union.
the organization of our business environment is cumbersome and rigid.
but it is certainly in our common interest to have a well-organised transport system and a well-functioning railway infrastructure as a viable alternative to road transport, which is undoubtedly a major burden on our environment.
in my opinion, nuclear energy has not been given its rightful place in this report.
solutions aimed at developing alternative bio-, wind- and solar energy are long-term and ultimately not guaranteed to be profitable.
and we need to move quickly in our energy strategy, recalling the effects of last year's gas crisis and the threat of climate change.
nuclear energy is the largest non-carbon energy source in the union and one third of our electricity needs are already met by electricity from this source.
the european economic environment as a whole has been shown to be diverse, heavily regulated, but very cumbersome compared to competing economies.
in the coming period, therefore, in addition to efforts to consolidate the euro area's public finances, we must also seek to restructure and significantly simplify the rules of the internal environment.
this requires, in particular, a higher and more sustainable level of integration of the european economy.
in particular, it should be noted that european products not only meet strict hygiene, safety and veterinary standards, but also take into account the principles of sustainable development, climate change prevention and respect for biodiversity and animal welfare.
representatives of the european union institutions often and gladly declare publicly that they place great emphasis on protecting the health of their citizens, nature and the environment.
the arguments of mining companies that they will ensure that the conditions for gold mining are such that there will be no more health risks or environmental damage have so far proved futile.
commission, it is time to show the citizens of the european union what you really care about, whether it is the environment, the health and lives of our citizens or the profits of mining companies.
anyone who has experienced and seen the consequences of the ecological disaster caused by the failure of technology in baia mare and the subsequent release of toxic cyanide solutions into watercourses with far-reaching effects on the living fauna of the tisza river in hungary, but also the danube in bulgaria, must do everything to ensure that something like this can never happen again in the european union.
the adoption of the resolution must be about the general and comprehensive protection of european values in the field of our ecological and environmental policy.
cyanide extraction methods are associated with a high risk of ecological damage and thus a threat to human life, health and the environment.
i am convinced that in the interests of protecting human health and the environment, and given that cyanide extraction methods can involve several states in accidents, it is necessary and necessary to establish uniform legislation at european level.
− mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the full use of information and telecommunications technologies is a prerequisite for a more competitive europe and sustainable growth.
electric cars are considered one of the solutions to meet strict environmental standards because they produce no emissions.
these and other similar issues are not a matter for two eu countries to debate, but are in our common interest to make our environmental policy more sustainable.
it is very important that we meet our 2020 targets for reducing carbon emissions and increasing energy efficiency.
the ict sector can be of strategic importance for the european union's energy saving and for the competitiveness of european industry.
part of such an environment is the social protection of those who have decided to help their spouse in business.
first of all, i am pleased that the european union has discovered the potential for significant energy savings in the operation of buildings.
relatively rapid and efficient energy savings can be achieved by improving the thermal insulation capabilities of building envelopes, including by additional insulation of older buildings.
however, heat leakage from heating buildings is not the only waste of energy in buildings.
in terms of energy consumption, heating water for personal hygiene or indoor air conditioning is also an important item in civilized societies.
but in these areas, the path to energy savings will be a little bit more difficult, more complicated.
it will be a way to increase the efficiency of rather complicated sophisticated systems that provide regulation and exchange of energy between different media in the building itself.
since most buildings are unique in terms of their unification, the internal energy regime of each building must also be more or less individual, designed and implemented appropriately for a particular workplace or household.
therefore, a significant increase in the complexity and design requirements must be part of our objectives in order to properly scale up smart energy solutions for the building.
the energy savings of buildings are very important, but the question of the energy savings of buildings is also important.
this is a subject that we have to deal with because the energy crisis is developing in europe.
the european union has committed itself to reducing its energy consumption by 20% by 2020 and to using 20% of its energy from renewable sources.
emellett oda kell figyelni is energy efficiency issues, főleg az építőiparban, as the építőiparban sector is one of the largest energy consumers (40%) and one of the largest carbon dioxide emitters.
this is particularly important in central european countries where there is a past system of heritage and early-warning of the lack of buildings due to wasteful use of the available energy.
and the switchgear, the modern heat seals and the energy-saving devices.
in europe, the use of energy-saving buildings is increasing, thanks to the popularity of electricity and state aid.
the rigorous functional audit in the inlo directorate-general and in the security service, which we agreed upon when the budget was adopted in december, can bring significant and sustainable savings for future budget periods.
the draft report was voted on 16 march in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, where it was unanimously adopted, and in the context of the recommendations of the rapporteur.
the introduction of the various eu support funds, which often distort the market environment, has forced the introduction of compulsory state aid notification.
i am therefore convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that in a healthy business environment, this title does not justify any, indeed any, support for airlines by governments and therefore by the citizens of the european union.
the euro must not be allowed to lose its prestige, and everything must be done to ensure the sustainability of the monetary union.
when building the eu 2020 strategy, sustainable development policy should be given a strong role.
while the energy diversification solution for central europe is underway, it is also necessary to ensure a greater use of alternative energy to mitigate climate change.
however, it should also be recognised that the capacity of current alternative energy sources is limited.
in the long term, nuclear energy is the energy source that can provide sufficient energy with the lowest carbon emissions, and therefore the associated issue of safe fuel storage and operation must be given great weight.
it is also essential to encourage further research into modern energy technologies, such as fusion reactor innovation.
however, they have a small public administration and a simple business environment that allows them to develop the natural competitiveness that is inherent in many people.
a simple, transparent business environment, less bureaucracy, more space for the autonomy, entrepreneurship and creativity of our citizens, that is the best way out of today's problems.
the key finding for the whole debate is, i think, expressed in the introduction to point 2 of the draft opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy, which states, and i quote, 'that the challenges set out in the commission's communication are not new and have not been successfully addressed so far'.
- bulgaria, in its accession treaty, has undertaken, like slovakia and lithuania, to provide a part of its nuclear energy production in detail.
in such cases, when a nuclear power plant and the thermal energy generated are inoperative, the power generated must be taken into account.
i know there's been talk about how little money we have and how much we should spend on everything, but i have to tell you that i would really like to see funding for research programs that are going to improve the energy supply... (the president cut the speaker off)
thank you, mr. president, and i apologize for the misunderstanding.
i would like to make a few comments as a member of the committee on industry on research programmes aimed at ensuring the sustainable security of energy supply.
the next point i would like to make is that there is a widespread phenomenon in the labour market which is not a good thing and cannot be dealt with exclusively in the field of road transport, namely the issue of pseudo-private entrepreneurs, which is a real european problem, which is deteriorating the competitive environment and the labour market.
i would very much welcome the timely publication of information on large projects on the internet, allowing direct access to project documentation, especially to environmental impact assessments, the importance of which is often taken lightly or even avoided by the operators.
such a trend must be decisively prevented by a bold and well-thought-out innovation policy that guarantees the competitiveness of the eu economy as well as the transition to a knowledge-based and low-carbon economy.
a complex organisational business environment with many regional specificities and cross-border barriers.
− explanation of vote: i welcome the fact that the international renewable energy agency has been discussed in plenary and i am glad that i could vote in favour of it.
i believe it is important to establish an international centre as soon as possible, which will try to help and advise 75 countries outside the eu on the introduction of renewable energy, the design of targeted programmes, and provide training and advice on best practice and funding opportunities.
i would also stress that the irena programme should be signed by all eu member states (20 have signed so far) so that everyone can become part of this international cooperation, so that by exchanging experiences we can further develop our practices in the field of renewable energy sources.
to meet our 2020 targets of reducing carbon emissions and increasing energy efficiency, every opportunity must be seized and the agency can play a major role in this.
these investments in improving the judicial and legal environment of the european union must be seen as a necessary cost to achieve the very important common goal of improving the satisfaction and legal certainty of all our citizens.
by 2020, road freight transport is forecast to grow by 55% and road passenger transport by 36%, which will increase energy consumption and co2 emissions from transport.
another challenge is to reduce rising co2 emissions through these tools.
the sustainable future of transport report outlines the key challenges facing the transport sector today and provides policy advice and recommendations on how best to address these challenges.
it is therefore essential to improve the quality and efficiency of all modes of transport - road, rail, river, sea and air - while strictly respecting the necessary principles of environmental protection.
sustained demand growth and congestion in urban areas are responsible for up to 40% of co2 emissions and up to 70% of other harmful emissions from motor vehicles.
the effective promotion of low co2 technologies in transport is therefore a natural need for environmental protection.
therefore, it is necessary to continue patiently to work towards the broadest possible balanced reform of the financial system so that the new rules eliminate gambling behaviour from both the political environment and financial institutions.
i would like to particularly note the statement by the european group of ethics, which is aware of the european food safety agency’s scientific findings and recommendations on food safety, animal health and welfare and environmental impact, as well as the indications of the current gaps in the knowledge about animal welfare and the health of animal clones and their offspring.
i would like to begin by supporting the efforts of the rapporteur, mr holger krahmer, to achieve the european union's environmental objectives as consistently as possible.
however, under certain conditions, a temporary slowdown in economic growth may be an acceptable price for a substantial improvement in the environment of citizens in heavily affected regions.
we must therefore continue to press progressively, in a sensitive but firm manner, for the modernisation of production technologies aimed at reducing industrial emissions and engage in a constructive dialogue with industry representatives on the fixing of this philosophy in their development plans.
iceland is a highly democratic country which brings to the european union a wealth of experience in the use of renewable resources, geothermal energy, environmental protection and can contribute very effectively to the enrichment of the environmental and energy sector policies in the european union.
today, pollution can no longer be broken down into individual environmental elements, but must be managed in an integrated way.
these institutions are responsible for a significant proportion of all emissions, so we can say that industry is one of the most important components of the economy, but also one of the most polluting.
the ippc directive is designed to regulate the monitoring of emissions by industrial and agricultural companies.
i also support the idea that minimum requirements should be set to ensure that emissions are properly controlled.
to talk about the southern region of the serbian state of kosovo without waiting for the opinion of the international court of justice on the legitimacy of its status in the international environment is, i think, from the point of view of international law, quite problematic.
a functioning market and a competitive environment would naturally solve this problem.
it is a complex business environment with a particularly delightful bureaucracy that in the european union effectively stifles creativity and entrepreneurship, qualities that are characteristic of people in europe as well as in the usa, japan, china and india.
a simple, transparent legal environment with little bureaucratic burden would certainly provide europe with a new strong impetus to further boost economic growth.
i see the way forward in the implementation of progressive and sustainable policies to provide adequate long-term care in a spirit of intergenerational solidarity, eliminating age discrimination and full inclusion in society, even in old age.
the ever-increasing number of counterfeit and pirated products in international trade increases the potential to jeopardise the sustainable development of the world economy, causing not only financial losses to the original producers but also interference with the intellectual property rights of authors and those involved in production and production, and posing a threat to consumers and jobs in europe.
therefore, every effort should be made to ensure a sustainable recovery and to strengthen the job-creating potential of european economies.
at the same time, linking growth and job preservation to the development of a green economy also creates the conditions for preventing climate and environmental problems.
the recurrence of natural disasters over the years, especially floods in different parts of europe, suggests that some of the new sustainable jobs can also be created in the field of preventive flood protection.
as has been said many times in today's debate, and will certainly be said again, the jordan river is of immense cultural, ecological, economic and, of course, political and therefore strategic importance.
conservationists say that the exploitation of jordan has almost completely destroyed its entire ecosystem.
supporting enterprises involves ensuring a reasonable regulatory environment and simple administration.
i would like to begin by acknowledging that both the european commission and the relevant committees of the european parliament, the committee on legal affairs and the committee on constitutional affairs, recognise that the legal environment of the european union is extremely complex, in many cases not even transparent, and that very decisive steps need to be taken to improve and simplify it.
they are often concluded by states within a wider framework of cooperation covering other areas that seem to be of greater importance to the partners, such as energy security, the fight against terrorism, police cooperation and trade.
the conservation of biodiversity and ecosystems is of invaluable value to society.
our concept of commitment is to preserve our planet in a way that will provide a livable environment for future generations.
biodiversity is in drastic decline.
if we do nothing, researchers say, that number could increase tenfold by 2050. ecosystem destruction can also result in the release of significant amounts of greenhouse gases, which can further increase global warming and reduce the earth's ability to capture carbon dioxide.
the natura 2000 network, which consists of special areas of conservation (sacs) designated by the member states, is the eu's main tool for the conservation of biodiversity.
its main objective is to contribute to biodiversity by protecting natural habitats and wild fauna and flora.
investments in health and education generate a general increase in the well-being of people in developing countries and are a prerequisite for sustainable development for all sections of society.
the gas safety regulation responds to the problems revealed by the energy and gas crisis at the beginning of last year.
the proposal for a regulation prepared by the commission proposed a wide range of measures with the ambitious aim of achieving a higher degree of energy security for the whole of the european union.
gas is the lowest carbon-emitting fossil fuel and therefore plays a major role in europe's fight against climate change.
but we must not forget the social climate of this country in order to build good trade relations, to combine research, to take joint action on environmental protection and so forth.
the union should frame its energy policy in a spirit of solidarity, thus ensuring the security of energy supply throughout the eu in line with the new possibilities provided by the lisbon treaty.
this is evidenced by the lack of commitment to enforcing environmental directives consistently and properly and by the reluctance to initiate infringement proceedings against member states.
if we are genuinely concerned about passing on to our children and future generations the environment at least partially as we know it today, we cannot afford to continue to procrastinate, to avoid action.
i therefore support the proposed actions which can lead to the prevention of irreversible damage to the environment.
the environment and its biodiversity are currently being challenged by a mode of production and a lifestyle that sees nature as a commodity and a means of satisfying human needs.
so while we may be ignoring the ethical and ecological importance of biodiversity, we should at least be consistent in our appreciation of it.
to prevent value and economic losses, appropriate legislation is needed and the importance of biodiversity must be promoted among the citizens of the european union.
indeed, most citizens no doubt consider biodiversity loss to be a serious problem, but unfortunately do not think that it affects them personally.
therefore, citizens cite a lack of knowledge about what can be done as one of the important reasons for their inaction in combating biodiversity loss.
the policy for mountain regions, islands and sparsely populated areas should be comprehensive, integrated and balanced and should include recognition of the differences between areas and the corresponding right to a specific mode of development in the local, regional or national legislative environment: recognition of the disadvantages suffered by the inhabitants, local authorities and entrepreneurs and the definition of specialised activities for the preservation of traditional modes of employment, the promotion of multiannual comprehensive programmes aimed at the valorisation of traditional production capacities, the promotion of the diversification of the economic activities of the population by the development of capacities for tourism, whether as a complement to traditional ways of life, the maintenance and improvement of the availability of technical facilities and services, the measures against the exodus of young people, the preservation of a specific cultural identity and homogeneous values specific to each area and, of course, the protection of ecological and ecological balance.
i therefore fully support the creation of a specific european integrated framework for dealing with mountain regions, in line with the principle of territorial cohesion, which is one of the main objectives of the european union, but i stress the need to complement the policy framework with a specific legal dimension linked to the release of... (speaker was interrupted)
i agree that emissions reductions must continue, so if we have rules that can help reduce them, let's try to put those rules into practice.
indeed, the inclusion of aviation in the emissions trading system is not such a burden for aviation that it cannot accept it and develop further.
it is important to recognise that other modes of transport also have to respond to different constraints related to the need to reduce emissions, therefore we expect that aviation should also adequately bear some of its responsibility for reducing emissions.
although biocidal products are part of our daily lives as disinfectants and preservatives, they can pose significant risks to humans, animals and the environment if used incorrectly or not authorised enough.
in order to protect health and the environment, it is therefore necessary that products from european as well as non-european manufacturers comply with uniform eu standards.
we must therefore use tools that are effective, but also take care that they do not endanger our environment.
i welcome the package of proposals to create a more efficient, integrated and sustainable financial supervisory system within the eu, which aims to address the failures of european financial supervision that were revealed during the recent financial crisis, and we know that we were all surprised.
the european union needs to develop a strategy as soon as possible to prevent any environmental disaster like the bp oil spill in the gulf of mexico from happening in the future.
marine biologists have told us that the local burning of oil and the chemicals used to clean up the pollution do more harm to the environment than the oil itself, since this type of oil breaks down relatively quickly.
as a member of the committee on the environment, i am deeply concerned by the results of recent studies which have produced alarming statistics on the loss of biodiversity in the european union.
i would also like to stress the need to target information to the private sector on the economic benefits of fighting to protect biodiversity and the return on investment in protecting it.
the loss of biodiversity is already reducing the level of well-being of citizens and causing billions of dollars in economic damage, which is expected to reach several trillion by 2050.
for the s&d group.
the fight against poverty requires not only active support for income systems and social protection, but also the creation of decent and sustainable jobs for disadvantaged working groups.
the legal environment in the member states for recovery varies.
i know that the wounds of the disaster will heal in kolontari and devečeri for a long time to come, but we must also consider that there may be more of these neglected, dangerous tanks of chemical and other waste throughout europe.
it is becoming clear that dumping industrial or mining waste in landfills is not a good solution for society or the environment.
we should therefore seriously consider the requirement that any industrial or mining activity be allowed only if it includes in its production or production cycle the immediate and complete disposal or neutralisation of the waste generated.
as many as nine people may have died in this ecological disaster, which became the worst in the history of hungary.
the highest priority in my view is to mitigate the consequences of the disaster and consequently to take a responsible approach to revitalizing the river ecosystem, together with preventing possible disasters in the future.
the european union can play an important role in this context, because it is not only its right but also its duty to insist on strict adherence to high environmental standards, because i can imagine that similar dangerous rocks are found in other member states.
i think the whole european public was shocked by the ecological disaster that took place in hungary two weeks ago, and i would like to express my deep sympathy and sincere condolences to the families of the victims, as well as to the citizens of the slovak republic.
i think that the european union, the hungarian government and the company in question, which has caused the whole ecological disaster, must be involved in the current situation and in the solution.
the ever-increasing number of counterfeit and pirated products in international trade increases the potential for jeopardising the sustainable development of the world economy, certainly also causing financial losses to the original producers, as well as interference with the intellectual property rights of authors and those involved in production and production, and of course also posing a threat to consumers and job losses in europe.
we need a system that contributes to european innovation and sustainable development, enhances the union's competitiveness and strengthens its position in international trade.
for the efd group the proposed regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation no 663 of 2009 responds to the european parliament's repeated requests to create a new single-purpose financial instrument to support energy efficiency and renewable energy initiatives.
in particular, the support for measures to improve the energy efficiency of buildings in the construction sector, which consumes up to 40% of the european union's energy annually, gives this initiative its rationale and meaning.
the european energy programme for recovery, with a financial reserve of around eur 150 million, as well as the multiannual programme of the dg for climate, which was created with a similar objective, are examples.
therefore, i think it is good to consider pragmatically how we can best use the saved funds to extend the scope of the european energy recovery programme with a new and, it seems, necessary, single-purpose financial instrument to support energy efficiency and renewable initiatives.
the new efficient financial instrument will thus help public authorities at municipal, local and regional level to implement projects in the field of energy saving and the use of renewable energy sources.
but it seems to me that we should focus on creating a favourable environment for those who want to invest in new technologies and innovation rather than discussing justified costs and accounting procedures.
the rate of replacement of these devices is therefore also accelerating, with the result that waste from electronic and electrical equipment is becoming an increasing environmental burden.
it is a type of waste which is complex and very often contains hazardous substances, the disposal of which is not yet satisfactorily completed.
however, in the case of pvc in particular, i think that this will have to be balanced very delicately in the search for the right compromise between objective environmental protection requirements and the interests of the manufacturing sector.
i would like to begin by supporting the rapporteur's efforts to open a debate on the media environment in the european parliament.
i think it's a very useful theme, especially in the age of digitization, in the age of revolutionary changes in this environment.
in some places, private media is weaker or is broken, fragmented, so it doesn't create a concentrated pressure or a concentrated media environment, and public media is then able to provide more information and influence public opinion more.
but equally, if not more, inefficient are the so-called alternative energy sources.
but experience has taught us that it is not good to rely on just one source of energy.
if europe's energy security is our priority, then it would be a mistake to give up one of the possible sources of energy.
the energy invested in education affects the efficiency of the justice system.
the keyword of the programme is post-crisis economic recovery and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the effort to achieve smart and sustainable growth is also commendable, and i understand that the programme cannot go into all the details, but we need much more ambitious formulation and action in the fight against poverty and for social inclusion at the moment.
on the other hand, it should consider extending article 122, which talks about solidarity - it enshrines mutual aid in the event of natural disasters or energy crises.
the experience of recent years, when the interruption of gas supplies from ukraine and widespread power cuts in several european union countries have shown us that our energy system does not have sufficient reserves to overcome crisis situations, has shown that the extension will require large-scale investments and therefore will require a coordinated and thoughtful approach when deciding on its changes in order to use the invested resources as efficiently as possible.
the report presented responds to this in a very comprehensive way, dealing with virtually all aspects that will have to be taken into account in solving energy problems.
in addition to ensuring security of energy supply and promoting development and research, the need for greater energy efficiency and the use of energy from renewable sources is also not forgotten.
in its complexity and balance, i think this report is a good starting point for further work to improve the european energy system.
the lisbon treaty will build the eu's energy strategy on four new pillars in the future.
these are the single energy market, security of supply, energy efficiency and the interconnection of european energy networks.
when we want to formulate our new energy strategy, we have to keep in mind some challenges.
the european union's energy dependence is growing along with its population.
by 2030, europe will have to source 65% of its energy imports from outside the eu.
member states should review their overall approach to nuclear energy.
we must continue to work on the development of nuclear energy, otherwise we will not be able to meet our climate change objectives.
it's been two decades now that international forums have been talking about climate change.
the kyoto protocol expires in 2012, and the fiasco of last year's climate conference in copenhagen offers no hope of an early change for the better.
the october climate talks have only confirmed the rift between the so-called developed world and the so-called developing world, and so there is a lot at stake in cancún.
first, domestic emissions must be significantly reduced.
carbon offsetting is certainly not the answer in this regard.
if rich countries buy concessions from poor countries to continue producing emissions, it doesn't help the climate.
the un climate change conference is being held in mexico in december, and the copenhagen summit is expected to be even more important.
and the 2012 kyoto convention is very important, so it's very important that we have a global climate, and everyone has a clear goal.
at the outset, it should be noted that the cancun climate change conference is another great opportunity to do something for future generations and at least partially correct what we failed to do in copenhagen.
i'm no expert on the environment, and theories are splitting, but i believe something needs to be done.
let's stop discussing whether climate change is real or not, and talk about how to fight it.
let's stop debating whether climate change can be stopped, and instead do something about it.
we will strongly support emissions reductions, involve regions, cities and rural areas in environmental protection, strive to create more green jobs and support investment in research and innovation.
of course, to make it meaningful to bring jobs, know-how and more significant investments to african countries, it is necessary to achieve better political stability, a standard legal environment, acceptable rules for entrepreneurs who will be willing to develop their activities in african countries in an honest way.
a major obstacle to such an environment is, for the time being, the rampant authoritarian regimes whose behavior discourages all decent people from any cooperation.
i would stress the need for the commission to conclude agreements containing clauses on democracy, human rights and respect for social, health and environmental standards, while ensuring effective monitoring of compliance with and application of those standards in practice.
the lisbon treaty gave us a new legal basis – article 83. this gives us the means to establish a common approach with a view to creating a more dissuasive environment for traffickers and, at the same time, stronger protection for victims.
we must do everything we can to contribute to a more dignified living environment for the potential victims of this crime, citizens who often live on the periphery of society.
however, the competitiveness of the european union as a whole can be achieved provided that economic growth is genuinely sustainable.
but there is only one budget in each family, and gifts are bought from what is left over after the family has eaten, dressed, and paid all the housing and energy bills.
the proposed revision of the energy efficiency action plan outlines several ways in which the european union could contribute to meeting its ambition to reduce greenhouse gases by 2020. the philosophy of the present study is based on the logical consideration that if we manage energy rationally and take the necessary affordable measures to reduce energy waste in all sectors of energy consumption, we can achieve significant savings in production costs as well as in environmental pollution.
the proposed measures concern not only the energy infrastructure, i.e.
the generation and transmission of energy, but also the construction industry, industrial production and transport.
it is certainly good that the european union has some sort of summary list of measures that could gradually increase the efficiency of energy use.
but in view of the european union's target date of 2020 to reduce the amount of greenhouse gases produced in europe by 20%, it might be worth considering what measures, to what extent, at what cost, with what effect, we are prepared to implement within the current capabilities and competences for the next 10 years.
i am not saying that we should give up on pushing for change, on increasing efficiency in energy production and transport, but given the cost, the time to plan, design and then implement, i think that by 2020 there will be little change in this area, as well as in some of the other measures proposed.
i therefore believe that it would be good if the commission could already at this stage select from this vast base of organisational, time and financial measures on which we can concentrate in order to create a strong initial impetus for the adoption of an energy management philosophy as a part of the thinking, first among the professionals and then also among the general public.
i think that's a way to improve energy efficiency.
review of the energy efficiency action plan energy efficiency is one of the most effective ways of reducing co2 and other gas emissions.
the economic environment has changed significantly since the adoption of the energy efficiency action plan 2006. i therefore see a clear need to review the eu's energy efficiency policy and align it with our current priorities.
while emissions and renewable energy values are easy to measure, energy efficiency data are more difficult to calculate.
the statistics they provide enable us to monitor changes in our energy policy.
we know that there is a huge potential in energy efficiency in buildings.
in terms of legislative measures to support energy-efficient solutions, the us and china are far ahead of us.