and the last point i want to make here is that we must always include the issue of climate change in our international meetings, and here i naturally expect close cooperation between the two commissioners responsible for these two areas.
so let us not waste time when bosnia and herzegovina and albania, one or the other, meet the criteria for visa liberalisation.
but we've actually done a lot for the environment these days.
connectivity let this be a lesson that europe needs better connectivity of air, rail and road transport, that we need funding for high-speed trains, less pollution.
i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of union legislation on the conservation of biodiversity.
president van rompuy, i would like to remind you that we are about to attend two important international conferences on the environment: one in japan in october on biodiversity and the other later this year on climate change.
in such disasters, the world as a whole is more polluted, animals and plants die from pollution, and people suffer.
we urgently need answers to the questions: what is a dense red substance, is it really dangerous to health, is it really not on the european list of hazardous waste and how can we prevent similar accidents?
in general, the implementation of environmental legislation in the union is extremely weak.
mr commissioner, today we are committing ourselves to the development of energy by 2020, but that is far too short a time.
the procedures for placing energy facilities in space take several years.
if we are to achieve climate change and sustainable energy goals, we need to set the policy framework much further into the future.
we need an energy strategy document at least until 2050. nuclear energy is increasingly present as one of the energy sources of the future and i would therefore like to highlight three tasks which i see ahead of us at european level in this respect.
first, we must ensure that nuclear power plants are safely decommissioned and that radioactive waste is disposed of in accordance with the polluter pays principle.
this could benefit from the synergies of knowledge and help countries that are just starting to use nuclear energy and those with objectively smaller administrative bodies.
nuclear energy is just one of many possible energy sources and the decision-making processes must be the same as for coal, renewables, gas and oil.
commissioner, you have made the union much better prepared for the climate conference this time, and i thank you for that.
i also want to respond to proposals for the union to unilaterally reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 30%.
only then will climate change be an opportunity and not a burden.
finally, on the issue of financing climate efforts of developing countries, i would like to emphasise that we already have a financial mechanism in place in the european union, i.e.
the european emissions trading scheme, the so-called ets.
i woke up on saturday morning with a great deal of relief, because i learned that both agreements had been accepted, and that, of course, gives me faith that it is still possible to stop global warming below two degrees celsius.
so we're in a big time crunch now, a big time crunch mainly because we still don't have the numbers, we still don't have concrete commitments on how countries will reduce their greenhouse gas emissions.
the european union is still the only region in the world that has legislated to limit its emissions.