it was a failure and the question is how we can now take back the initiative in the fight against climate change.
can spain lay the foundations for a binding climate agreement in mexico, where we do not deepen the gap between the world's poor countries and the world's richer countries?
for example, is it possible to try to secure funding for climate action that does not take money from the regular eu aid for poverty reduction?
it is not enough, of course, for the candidate for climate commissioner, connie hedegaard, to refuse to admit that the copenhagen summit was a failure.
how will the spanish presidency and the commission create the conditions for a binding climate agreement in mexico?
will you secure the funding for the new climate action in the developing countries, so that it is not just a repackaging of aid to go to poverty reduction and so on?
will you dispel the distrust of the developing countries by highlighting the value of the kyoto protocol as a basis for further work on a global climate agreement?
an important instrument to achieve this is continued investment in the emissions trading system.
a transatlantic market for carbon emissions could be the start of a global market.
at the same time, in europe we must continue to strengthen our own carbon market and stop giving away free trade rights.
we must invest in new technology and, thirdly, we must set a price floor for carbon dioxide.
market mechanisms can achieve climate goals, not more bureaucracy.
if we are to put the copenhagen summit behind us, take new steps and put all our energy into future action, we must first focus on europe 2020. the measures are there and we must have strong proposals on energy efficiency and how we invest in new technologies.
we need to have a climate jobs strategy.
finally, a 30% reduction in co2 emissions is a given if we are to win not only the battle over climate but also the battle over markets.
this is a key step in the development of climate action.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
when companies move to other countries because they employ in those countries with poorer conditions, working environment and trade union rights, then there is a reason to review the design of trade agreements and other instruments.
the issue of climate change, for example, is split between a number of portfolios; that is most worrying.
the issues of industrial policy and energy policy, meanwhile, will be dealt with by commissioners from just one political group; that is also most worrying.
what we need now is balance and support for sustainable economic growth, and it is important that this is reflected in the eu 2020 strategy.
i hope it will be sustainable.
- in the autumn we voted against barroso because he does not share our view on the importance of good working conditions, equality and the transition to a sustainable society.
however i could not vote against the whole commission since the commissionaire-designates for absolutely crucial and key issues such as climate, environment, development, humanitarian aid, agriculture and fisheries all were regarded as very competent and committed.
the un year of biodiversity should start this way.
over the coming weeks, the commission will put together the eu’s new common agenda for sustainable growth and recovery via the eu 2020 strategy.
our european model of society, the combination of a free economy with a high degree of social protection, must be preserved in a sustainable way, and this will take growth.
open trade policy will be an important element, both as a contribution to european economic recovery and as a vector for the external projection of our principles: openness, social and environmental protection and sustainability, and constructive engagement on the world scene.
we must, especially now that we are about to decide on korea and compulsory origin labelling and as the demands for climate tariffs are increasing, consider how we can ensure that there are fewer and not more trade barriers.
what we now have to do is to develop a new lisbon strategy, namely the eu 2020. it is important, then, that we understand that social cohesion and sustainable development are a prerequisite for economic growth.
the seventh and eighth framework programmes must concentrate on research and development in renewable energy.
the work should be targeted at the few specific areas where the fundamentals of sustainable growth should be addressed.
i am very pleased to see this commitment from the commission to promote best practice and increase the efficiency of the european energy market.
energy efficiency is crucial for both jobs and growth in europe and a prerequisite for us to meet the 2°c target.
the two most important conditions in this context are smart energy grids and a free and functioning internal energy market.
anything else would be unworthy and a very unfortunate start to the cooperation we need between parliament and the commission in the context of a functioning internal energy market.
- the report by mrs lenz (a7-0214/2010), on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (c8-0214/2010), on the common position established by the council with a view to the adoption of a european parliament and council regulation on the protection of the environment (com (2010) 0406 - c8-0214/2010), we would like to stress, however, that we believe that the eu member states should be called upon to condemn human rights violations in general and we regret that the un human rights council has not been able to deal with serious human rights situations in other countries than those mentioned in the resolution, such as cuba, with several countries.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the majority of meps rejected the priority to be given to ecological sustainability and voted in favour of an amendment to the proposal that policy towards non-eu countries should be guided by the community's fisheries interests.
the greens are happy about many of the amendments to the report that we managed to get accepted, such as fundamental principles on demands for sustainability on those that will have the right to fish, demands of environmental impact assessments on fisheries operations, the statement that the eu should not compete with local fishermen under the fisheries agreements, but only be allowed to fish from a surplus of fish, and also the motion to all eu institutions to put illegal fishing on top of the international agenda in all relevant fora, to protect the oceans as well as food security.
unfortunately there were also some completely unacceptable and contradictory paragraphs approved in the final text, such as the objective of the external parts of the cfp is to protect and promote european fisheries interests, that ecological sustainability should not be prioritised over social and economical sustainability and that all policy areas should contribute to fulfilling the cfps objectives.
− mr president, i would like to thank the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for its work on this dossier.
i want to ask the question: will the commission work towards an ambitious and legally binding climate agreement being signed in cancun in december, or will it continue to advocate a process where cancun is seen as just a step towards an agreement being signed in south africa or perhaps in some other country far in the future: 2011, 2012, 2020 or at worst even further in the future?
however, before we formulate a common eu policy towards the arctic, we should spend more time assessing the current state of the arctic ecosystem.
achieving the transition to sustainable renewable energy and climate-smart societies will require more than wishful thinking, it will also require major investments.
the budget simply needs to be adjusted to match the political priorities in terms of solar and wind, energy efficiency, etc.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
at the present time we are dealing with a financial crisis, leading to a jobs crisis, in combination with a climate crisis.
an economic growth based on social and environmental grounds is crucial to kick-start europe, but i am afraid that the council and commission’s proposals for governance – however welcome – will be too vague and will not help to achieve the set targets.
first, we must be clear that climate change is still a heavy priority.
thirdly, i am pleased that in his report sven giegold stresses the importance of having a clear environmental and climate perspective even in times of crisis.
instead, we should promote economic recovery by focusing on renewable energy sources, environmentally friendly transport systems and the development of green technologies.
only by making such investments can we create growth that is sustainable in the long term.
i welcome a task force, but we should not waste too much time because we know a number of the concrete actions that we should take: decrease and eliminate red tape; ensure that we invest more at european level on research and science; change the budget so that it allows for more growth and innovation; ensure that we can advance further with the knowledge economy by implementing the services directive and expanding the services directive to new areas; ensure that we have mobility in the labour market; ensure that we develop the financial markets to make them more stable, but not protectionist – because i would like to say to the commission that creating new protectionism regarding financial markets does not help the european economy.
what we need now is action on statistics, otherwise, in biblical terms, we will build our decisions – our house – on sand, and we know that this is not sustainable.
then on sustainable and inclusive growth: we know that ‘sustainable’ should mean environmentally friendly; it should mean socially inclusive.
we need economic growth and we need it spelt out in the conclusions of europe 2020. on climate, this road map and this way of talking: we will end up going round in circles.
one thing that is immediately needed is energy efficiency.
find the courage to put forward the proposals on energy efficiency.
i am personally convinced that agriculture and forestry are the most important factors we have in terms of reducing co2 emissions, especially in terms of binding carbon to trees, plants and roots and fixing it in the soil.
we must not go to corrupt leaders who are self-serving, nor should we waste money on projects and initiatives that are not forward-looking and of poor quality.
i also believe that, apart from cross-border environmental issues, agricultural policy is not suitable for community decision-making, especially after the enlargement of the eu to 27 countries.
but as long as the eu's common agricultural policy exists, i want the decisions to be as good as possible for the obvious purpose of tackling climate change.
i have great sympathy for several of le foll's proposals to address the climate threat, the great destiny of our time.
climate change, in particular, makes it difficult to develop a variety of criteria and fixed amounts for grants.
- cyanide is used in sweden's gold mining industry in closed systems in an environmentally sustainable way.
high safety standards will help to avoid the environmental impact of cyanide.
cyanides are toxic and it is essential that their use is within the framework of established environmental guidelines and that the coating is carried out in closed processes.
this is routine in europe, and the risk of hazardous emissions is thus minimized.
we seriously need to address the issues of competitiveness, of productivity and of sustainable economic growth, but still the leaders of europe are bickering about what action to take.
we have decided on a set plan, new energy technology.
the most cost-effective means to reduce greenhouse gases is to move forward with a strategy for energy efficiency.
i therefore call on the commission and the member states to put energy efficiency at the top of the agenda in action.
we need the promised energy efficiency action plan, promised for so long.
we need energy in infrastructure, the energy equivalent of fast trains, super grids and high-tech smart grids are needed, and we have the money for this.
second, we need to start the transition to climate-smart societies.
it is incredibly important that the commission gives connie hedegaard the space to actually be a climate politician who can help make a difference in europe at the cancún meeting.
the eib's strategy for securing sustainable growth in the union over the long term is of the utmost importance, as has been repeatedly demonstrated with regard to green development, including investment in the so-called tens.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
however, we would like to stress that there are things in the report that we sympathize with, such as the fact that eu export subsidies for european agricultural products have had a disastrous impact on the food security of developing countries and on their development of a sustainable agricultural sector.
however, the report in question contains elements which i cannot support, such as the introduction of a financial transaction tax and the use of the vaguely defined term 'environmental rights'.
- i voted against the report on the supplementary budget for 2010. increasing the secretarial allowances of members by eur 1 500 per month to cope with the increased workload brought about by the lisbon treaty is not sustainable.
it may be about transport systems, it may be about energy supply, it may be about other important solutions where the member states cannot stand alone but where the eu and the commission must act.
i also hope that the commission is prepared to put forward proposals which show that we are taking the transition to a sustainable society seriously.
– mr president, i used to say that we had a triple crisis in europe with financial markets, jobs and climate.
an energy-efficient europe is also a driving force of innovation, and the energy equivalent of fast trains, supergrids and high-tech smart grids is needed to improve europe’s competitiveness.
it is also essential that the eu takes responsibility and maintains its credibility, and thus does not pledge money for various purposes without sustainable financing.
we must be clear that this must not interfere with aid to the poorest countries or with the millennium development goals, whether in the field of climate change, the so-called 'banana company measures' or cooperation with the industrialized countries.
it's no more strange to have a color-coded nutrition warning than it is to warn consumers who buy an energy-intensive car or an energy-intensive refrigerator.
− i support efforts to make rail freight more effective, because of its environmental advantages compared to road freight.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
the problems of over-fertilization, algal blooms, toxic waste and endangered biodiversity are growing.
the levels of environmental toxins and heavy metals are also high, despite successful reductions in emissions of lead, mercury and ddt, for example.
the baltic sea ecosystem is complex and cannot be fully exploited without the cooperation of scientists across national borders throughout the entire catchment area down to the inland sea.
this work will be a joint research programme between the baltic sea states, including indeed scientists from russia, to meet the environmental challenges in this area.
the eu and the baltic sea countries will then jointly invest close to sek 1 billion in environmental research.
at the same time, it is our societies that contribute to the problems when emissions and waste leak into the water.
this type of coordinated environmental research is part of the process of creating a sustainable, dynamic and resource-efficient europe.
mr president, today we will be voting on two historic resolutions in this chamber, one dealing with the necessity of strengthened economic governance and a second one which is needed to make the eu 2020 resolution more ambitious: a strategy for sustainable growth and jobs.
secondly, we believe that the current crisis in the growth and stability pact has shown that the growth and stability pact does not work appropriately and needs strengthening, but this has to be combined with sustainable economic growth.
i am not sure that the outcome of these meetings, despite all the fine words, will lead to a view of savings which means that we should not immediately put ourselves in a position where the recovery is broken, but that we should be wise, long-term and solidarity-oriented, and that we should also invest in things which produce sustainable growth.
another victory is that energy, fat, saturated fat, sugar, salt and sweeteners must be listed on the front of the product.
we should not break the principles of protecting threatened species in the un’s international year of biodiversity.
we are very pleased that guido milana has taken so many problems seriously in this report, especially those relating to animal health, local environmental problems and the need for an integrated maritime policy, and in particular that the report recognises the problem of farmed fish eating fish requiring wild fish to be farmed and that it states that the eu should give priority to the farming of herbivorous fish.
we believe that neither individual states nor the eu should manage eco-labelling, but that the eu should have such good environmental laws that origin labelling should be sufficient as a guarantee of a high environmental and animal standard.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
that is why it is so important that we do not lose sight of the question of the transition to renewable energy, to a different kind of society, that is to say, the one we talk about so often here and sometimes manage to get broad majorities for when we have to decide on resolutions.
we're not going to solve the economic crisis unless we also solve the issues that are related to our environmental vulnerability.
social europe is also part of the struggle to do something about the financial market and the fight for the environment.
we must devote all our energy to remedying this.
- we have chosen to support the report by josé manuel fernandez to highlight the importance of environmentally friendly management of bio-waste in europe in mitigating climate change and combating environmental degradation.
plants which employ many people and at the same time cause a large proportion of air pollution, thus affecting the environment and health.
the main problem is that we are extending temporary exemptions for large combustion plants, even though they account for 90% of industrial emissions of sulphur and nitrogen dioxide.
in the meantime, the commission has been working on a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the dangers of ionizing radiation.
forests are of vital importance in maintaining biodiversity and in global climate and water cycles.
nowhere are the three pillars of sustainable development clearer than in relation to forests.
in addition to their environmental value, the economic and social value of forests is immense, as i know well from my own country in which forests cover almost 60% of our territory.
first of all, wood is a wonderful, renewable material that we use too little, not too much.
if this legislation leads to people choosing to produce things in plastic instead of wood, then the environment will be the big loser.
at the same time, we also face the enormous challenges of climate and of making natural cycles work.
let us not see agriculture as an environmental scourge and an environmental problem.
if we managed our own fisheries resources at least to maximum sustainable yield (msy), european catches could double, while maintaining viable and strong stocks.
i am also concerned about the digital environment in terms of technological barriers.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2007-2013).
the european union must take this very seriously, because it is reducing the resilience of our marine ecosystems, which are desperately needed today to absorb carbon dioxide and thus become a link in the chain of what we need to prevent climate change.
we can no longer let the different sectors operate independently as if nature were not interconnected, and the objectives we have to slow down the loss of biodiversity must also be taken seriously in fisheries policy.
if we are serious about europe becoming a world leader in research and development, climate, energy and green jobs and having a more common foreign and security policy, then you cannot just drop this kind of spending when you have national budgetary problems.
projects such as iter, climate policy, a new common foreign policy, the proud flagship projects of eu 2020 or a forthcoming enlargement - all of these cannot be financed within the current framework.
− we believe it is important to provide sufficient funds for the new eu strategy for growth and jobs, eu 2020, but also to ensure that the eu budget can meet the needs of aid, combating climate change, etc.
in addition, the lisbon treaty has given the eu a number of new competences, including in the fields of foreign policy, sport, space research, energy and tourism.
the new basel rules create the conditions for stability and sustainable growth.
the eu is given a range of new tasks: the external service, new financial institutions, energy and climate.
mrs herczog pointed out that the committee on industry, research and energy did not receive any speaking time.
we want to see a europe that is economically, socially and climate-friendly, so we have voted for investments in the environment, investment in human capital and control of financial markets, but always within the limits of existing resources.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: we have today delivered on our priorities by voting for higher funding for research, justice and more money for climate change, but also for a reduction in funding for agricultural subsidies, export support, tobacco farming and milk funds.
as i want to see an economically, socially and climatically sustainable europe, i have consistently voted for investments in the environment, individuals and the control of financial markets, but always within the limits of existing resources.
instead, we need the right conditions for food production in europe, proper animal welfare and incentives for farmers to produce green energy.
it is a modest budget, but it also contains the necessary investments in research, energy and youth activities, and allows the creation of a new eu external action service and new financial supervisory authorities.
however, it is also a budget where many of the eu's new priorities lack adequate funding, such as the eu's new strategy for growth and jobs (eu2020), climate policy, and eu foreign and aid policy, in particular support for palestine.
that attitude is simply not sustainable.
however, when you look at the text, it is already in the preamble, ‘desiring to promote cooperation between service providers and rights holders with respect to relevant infringements in the digital environment’.
the integrated maritime policy is a very welcome approach because the seas are interconnected and all sectors that use the seas have a collective impact on the marine environment.
this makes it disastrous and irresponsible to continue making decisions on the marine environment without taking into account the cumulative impact of fishing, dredging, shipping, wind and wave power, tourism, etc.
on the marine environment.
the marine strategy framework directive is the environmental pillar of the integrated maritime policy and it stipulates that all member states should have achieved good environmental status in our oceans by 2020. to achieve this, it is essential that member states implement integrated maritime management in practice as soon as possible, with decisions being taken in a single place.
member states now have an obligation to achieve good environmental status in the oceans by 2020. only by bringing together the decisions that affect the oceans and carrying out marine spatial planning, what in english is called marine spatial planning, will this become possible.
fishing operations must also carry out environmental impact assessments.
e mutual trust is keeping the doors open between our countries and this will lead to profitability and cooperation and above all a more pleasant climate between countries.
the european energy recovery programme is an instrument used to finance energy efficiency and renewable energy investments.
launching energy efficiency projects creates new jobs, makes the economy greener and, moreover, reduces our dependence on oil-producing countries, which is particularly important in these times of crisis.
it is also important that we, as the commissioner says, focus on reducing administrative burdens, removing tax obstacles and improving the business climate, especially for smes, while ensuring that we create a system that is robust against fraud.
although the cod fishery in the bay of biscay collapsed as recently as 2005 and commercial fishing was forced to cease altogether, there are still short-term economic incentives to jeopardise the long-term sustainability of the stock.
it is important to remember this now that the eu and the world have decided to achieve msy, or maximum sustainable yield, for all commercial fisheries within about five years.
for both environmental and competitive reasons, it is not sustainable to ensure the survival of unprofitable coal mines through public support schemes.
the subsidies are being removed, but in an orderly fashion, taking account of both employment and the environment.
the regions concerned will have to face a difficult challenge with the abolition of subsidies, but at the same time the proposal opens up the possibility of wide-ranging social and environmental measures to make this regional conversion process as efficient as possible.
a large-scale investment in active labour market measures and in thorough environmental remediation is a prerequisite for the final result to be acceptable for these regions.
thirdly, there has been a split of opinion on the environmental and sustainability aspects of parliament's position.
it means that at the government level we are tying money to activities that are neither profitable, nor can provide the jobs that are being talked about, nor contribute to an improved environment.
we consider that the follow-up to the agreement is inadequate and that the agreement does not take proper account of the environment in relation to overfished stocks.
at the same time, we believe that it is necessary to make substantial efforts to promote employment and the environment in the regions affected by the closures likely to result from the removal of subsidies.
the subsidies are being phased out, but in an orderly fashion, taking account of both employment and the environment.
as a social democrat, it has been important for me to advocate a strategy for energy policy and energy supply in which the consumer perspective is clear, in which there is therefore transparency also in the market where energy is traded, and in which the climate crisis has consequences for our decisions to switch to renewable, sustainable and secure energy sources and energy systems.
there has been better and clearer legislation on consumer rights and, as the commissioner says, on the right to buy energy at reasonable prices so that households can afford it.
something must be done about energy poverty.
there has also been a clearer wording on the climate issue, although there is still a lot to be done.
i also think it is important that the responsibility of the member states for the energy mix, for example, is clearly identified in the strategy.
the main disappointment is that the report lacks binding targets for energy saving and efficiency - it is a pity.
energy saving is one of the best ways of reducing dependence on imports, strengthening competitiveness and creating jobs.
mr president, we have enormous problems with the energy market and the grid in europe, not to mention that energy production is mainly based on fossil sources.
we have budget negotiations that go in a totally different direction from this energy strategy.
we had to fight – excuse me, i do not want to be taken out of the chamber – like hell for the eerp, energy efficiency and alternative fuels, and in research we have the same problem.
it was not just copenhagen that was frozen, but the whole environmental debate.
it can be said that the climate issue is further down the political agenda today than it was before copenhagen.
that is exactly what the un climate chief, christina figueres, asked when she spoke to us, who are going to cancún from the european parliament, in a videoconference.
together with other concrete decisions in cancún on deforestation, on technology transfer and on a path forward for a second commitment period under kyoto, this could pave the way for an international climate agreement in 2011. i don't think we should have low expectations for cancún.
we want to get away from a logic where a euro of trade gains is equivalent to two euros of environmental losses, or two euros of social costs.
the reports also contain many concrete proposals, such as the excellent proposal by mr saïfi for a world environmental organisation, the proposal to give the ilo more power, the proposal to introduce border duties as a means of reducing unfair competition and climate emissions, and the proposal to consult local communities before investing.
i would stress here, however, that the real costs must include environmental dumping.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact of the directive is not undermined.
in this case, it may even be more effective to use anti-dumping measures to prevent carbon leakage within, for example, the ets.
in this case, it is much easier to initiate an anti-dumping proceeding when a european company is facing unfair competition due to a lack of environmental responsibility in other countries.
in order to avoid further budgetary crises and to manage the financing of key priorities such as climate policy and eu 2020, more flexibility is needed in the eu budget for the coming years.
in order to avoid further budgetary crises and to manage the financing of key priorities such as climate policy and eu 2020, more flexibility is needed in the eu budget for the coming years.
- in yesterday's vote in the european parliament, i voted in favour of the resolution on the cancún climate change conference (cop 16).
i did so because the resolution deals with a highly urgent subject - that the eu should show wise political leadership in the climate negotiations.
developing countries are particularly affected, and world leaders must do everything possible to ensure that climate change does not jeopardise the mdgs.
such a tax is not the way forward and will not help developing countries to combat and adapt to climate change.
we all have the same deadline to meet, and it's 2012. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
victims should receive the help they need and, above all, it is important to create a safe environment that makes them choose to cooperate with the police.
we need binding energy efficiency targets as soon as possible, and this is important for a number of reasons: economic, competition, employment, environmental and climate reasons.
it is about saving energy or making it more efficient, and the question is what are we really talking about?
that is, we should not use our energy resources in such a way that we get an inadequate return on them.
it's pretty obvious, and several of you have been into the balance between energy production and the cost of it, risk taking with it and the consumption of energy.