we also hope we will have an attractive ecosystem for new listings and a more efficient trading landscape.
we have overcome pandemics, we have addressed our climate obligations and we have come together in the face of russian aggression in ukraine.
the only way we europeans would not get squeezed is to revive the spirit of the great jacques delors, opening up the markets of the future for european competition: energy, digital, artificial intelligence, defence and capital markets.
it is not only vital for our prosperity, but also crucial to win the fight against climate change.
the climate policies of china and the united states contain an abundance of carrots for their industry, while we here in europe all too often grab for the stick.
by not merely fixing the climate goals, but also nailing down the way in which these goals need to be achieved, we are leaving too little room for our companies, too little room for innovation and for creativity.
in order to prevail in the fight against climate change, we need a europe with focus: to focus on bringing down greenhouse gas emissions; to support companies who develop and use these clean technologies; to become more technologically neutral in our policies.
and let us not forget: to create the necessary social support for these climate policies by making green investments accessible to all, not just to the happy few.
in the coming months, this will include finding agreement on the key pending climate and environmental files, such as co2 emission standards for heavy-duty vehicles, carbon-removal certification, and ambient air quality, among others.
we also look forward to discussions on the assessment of the 2040 climate target, which we will table in february, as well as a strategy in march on how to better protect europe against the impact of climate change, such as droughts and floods.
i think it is important that, when you have the presidency of the european union, you can also reassure the whole european population and give a direction to the protection of the environment.
europe is being built with a union that is a leader in the fight against climate change, because progress, if it is not sustainable, cannot be called progress.
mr de croo, combating the climate emergency requires courage and leadership: courage and leadership to meet our green pact emission reduction commitments, and courage and leadership to pass the air quality directive and save the lives of 300,000 people who lose it prematurely every year.
if there is one member state which is very firmly in the position we have taken in the european parliament, in particular in terms of investment, including social investment, public services and a sustainable transition, it is belgium.
it is not about nature or farmers or ambitious climate policy or our industry.
finally, we expect belgium, of course, to set an ambitious climate policy that everyone can take part in.
at the regulatory break in environmental and climate legislation, which some want, including you, mr prime minister, let us propose an energy transition that creates jobs from a healthy environment, insulation and renewable energy for cheaper energy bills, biodiversity, local agriculture without gmos.
to achieve its climate and biodiversity objectives through a new green and social pact, to make social europe a reality that protects and invests in its citizens, for a democratic europe where fundamental rights prevail, we must prove to european citizens that europe is their home, that they can rely on it and, above all, that they have a say in future european policies.
we’ll continue to engage with our regional and international partners on all that, and we do remain committed to a lasting and sustainable peace based on a two-state solution and we are ready to reinvigorate all efforts to revive the middle east peace process.
we will prepare the ground for a lasting and sustainable regional peace, and the only way for that is a two-state solution based on international parameters.
i think it is difficult for us to adopt a report which does not call for a revision of this treaty on sustainability to bring it into line with the european reform of the chapters on sustainable development, which we adopted under this mandate, and with the investment part as well.
the paradox is that canada is willing, without ratification by all the member states of the european union, to review the chapter on sustainable development and i call on our institution and the european commission to move in this direction to allow member states to join the coalition of states that have ratified it, if necessary, but we cannot adopt this report.
with their eu climate madness, they want to shape our whole lives, with their eu migration pact, they want to bring millions of africans to europe every year without anyone ever asking.
the only response from the heads of state to angry farmers is to remove an environmental measure.
they expect to live with dignity from their work and be accompanied in their ecological transition.
we expect you, national and european leaders, to finally understand the social and climate emergency, of which farmers are the first victims.
both substances will be critical in the industrial processes needed to advance the eu’s transition to climate neutrality, and the new legislation will help promote a green transition closely connected to safety and health at work, which seems to me absolutely indispensable – we do not want to save the planet and at the same time make people sick and threaten their health and safety.
i am satisfied that tomorrow we can vote for a balanced agreement which places the health of workers at the top of the agenda but at the same time gives our own european lead and battery sector the opportunity to help achieve the climate targets.
respect for production, which includes fair remuneration, but also the end of food waste and ecological bleaching, respect for life and the earth.
a free trade that respects neither producers, workers, consumers nor the environment.
for it not to be a new neocolonial instrument, a global green pact is needed to ensure the food sovereignty of peoples, fair trade, and the objective of achieving the sustainable development goals.
they aim to equip teachers to deal with common challenges, from inclusion and equity to digital education or sustainable development.
issues like academic freedom or the need to uphold the climate targets and green deal objectives require parliamentary involvement.