we made energy leaks to putin while he was preparing for the second phase of the invasion of ukraine.
it comes with the obligation to put attention and resources, to prevent civilian victims, to prevent human suffering, and to prevent destabilisation, also through an accelerating climate crisis, together with diplomatic services, together with civil society and together with the local population.
the ecological transition can happen with realistic measures and tolerable requirements for european farmers.
we politicians have a responsibility to create legislation and resources to combat hatred, but also to contribute to a good debate climate that shuts out hatred and threats.
a uachtaráin, as our rapporteur, the esteemed professor and the commissioner said, geothermal energy is a tremendous yet often-overlooked resource.
it is the local, secure and renewable energy source that can play a pivotal role in decarbonising the heating sector and meeting our climate and energy goals in certain areas.
the heating sector, responsible for half of europe’s energy demand, is a major contributor to greenhouse gas emissions, with over 60% relying on fossil fuels.
we need simplified permitting procedures, access to sub-surface data, and support for low temperature district heating networks, to make geothermal energy a cornerstone in our clean energy strategy.
first of all, i would like to thank dr krasnodębsky for the report he has prepared, which i think is very much in the right place, because geothermal energy certainly has a great future.
we also have the largest producer of orchids in europe in prekmurja, which produces orchids based on geothermal energy.
we should certainly make more efforts, and more financial measures, from the european union, too, because when we compare it to the sun and the wind, we can safely say that geothermal energy is abandoned and is a great, untapped opportunity.
madam president, geothermal energy is one of the most accessible local energy sources and has been known and used for thousands of years.
geothermal energy could meet over 75% of europe's heating and cooling energy needs and over 15% of electricity consumption by 2040. it also has enormous potential in the production of heat energy and if used properly, it can dramatically improve the energy efficiency of our buildings.
it can provide clean energy to power sustainable production in various sectors of industry.
the crisis caused by the leap in our energy bills is showing us that we must use every available and profitable source we have access to.
investments in education and science are key to creating an environment where talent thrives.
and one last message must be put to an end: the european sector has been experiencing a campaign of disrepute for years, which is not condoned either by its efforts to scale up or by the innovations it uses to improve its working techniques or by the data that prove it is an example of sustainability.
these improvements more data, more information, more certifications reinforce the contract and confidence that professionals in this sector have with consumers and enable them to choose genuinely sustainable products on the market.
the community institutions have another step forward with this regulation in order to align themselves with a sector which has faced the challenge of triple sustainability - economic, social and environmental - at the forefront of many others, and which cannot continue to accept campaigns that ignore this trajectory or measures that need much more argumentative support than a populist slogan.
more cooperation and guidance are needed for successful implementation of this regulation in the online environment.
the long-awaited eu corporate sustainability due diligence directive is nearly finalised, and this is the momentum for the eu’s participation in this critically important un process.
is ignoring environmental, food security, food safety and animal welfare rules a foreshadowing of what we can expect if mercosur continues?
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
today, european farmers are talking about climate policy enough to cause their farms to collapse.
energy poverty is a big problem.
you're leading a crazy, irresponsible climate policy that's not good for the human race.
i think cutting our consumption or emissions by 90 percent in 50 years is an absolute number that i don't know who came up with or why.
but i was more affected by it in agriculture, by 30 percent, where we want to cut emissions from 2015. and i'd be interested to know that now that we want to do this, we're going to have some measurements of the cows now, how much gas they're producing, and we're going to be discussing how much they can or can't or what we're going to do.
mr president, hearing the phrase climate goals, i am convinced that some people in the european union think they are masters of the planet, and in fact we are just part of biodiversity.
we can't control the climate processes.
you don't think the ice age was caused by our ancestors who lit fires and produced carbon dioxide?
you saw what happened in brussels, you saw what happened in paris, if you continue with these irresponsible actions like the climate goals, a wave of discontent will flood all of europe.
last but not least, how to coordinate our climate policy at least with our partners across the atlantic, the north american free trade community.
it is true that many visible demars have been enthusiastically lobbying for energy dependence on russia, which has since allowed russia to finance its war on ukraine.
the russian agency has infiltrated institutions, the media, civil society organizations, the military and security services, banks and energy companies, universities.