environment and climate protection through modern technology and in cooperation with those concerned i would like to re-write the work we have done in the two reports.
i am speaking today for the rapporteur, jessica polfjärd, and i congratulate her on a report which has passed through the environment committee and the plenary and the trilogy without much controversy.
the polfjärd report is about ozone-depleting substances.
we had a huge problem with the ozone hole in the '80s.
as a doctor, i know that skin cancer through the ozone hole has increased very, very much.
we have now very well managed the problem through an international agreement and the replacement of those substances that cause the ozone hole.
i think in both reports and i will say something again about the f-gas report we have succeeded in supporting modern technology that can help us fight environmental problems.
f-gases are up to 25,000 times more harmful to the climate than co2, and that's why we have a construction site here.
this is a very, very important step for climate protection.
but we had a construction site: after the decision of the environment committee, the craft rightly complained.
without craftsmanship, there is no energy transition.
the problem was that when we were fixing equipment and when we were talking about spare parts, for example, or when we were talking about when an existing device is no longer working and you have to put f-gas in it to make it work again, we had a much too short transition period in the environment committee.
i think in the end this is a good result climate and environmental protection with the craft and with the industry.
– mr president, we are tomorrow going to vote on the revision of the f-gas regulation, which indeed i think is a very good example of a regulation that is improving our circumstances for our environment, but at the same time improving european competitiveness and european industry.
the current one was already reducing our f-gas emissions and, just reminding, f-gases are very potent greenhouse gases.
so, in the number of molecules we don't emit as much co2, but some of those have an impact on the global warming potential, even up to 24 000. so that means one molecule has 24 000 times more of an impact on global warming than one molecule of co2.
already the existing regulation is reducing the use and the emissions of f-gases – and more or less two thirds of that is being reduced – with this regulation and achieving zero emissions by 2050, it means that all the f-gases will be out of our economy and will be replaced by natural alternatives, and that is a very clear prospect for all the investors from now on.
this is also one of the first sectors that is then really achieving zero emissions that we have promised to achieve for the entire economy by 2050. in that sense, i think it's another good example of how this law can work.
and that not only makes this a very good environmental law, but it also makes it a very strong law for european competitiveness.
i think that is a very important message to give, that environmental legislation can go hand in hand with good economic regulation.
i'm looking forward to then the implementation by the commission, to move as fast as possible to achieve net zero emissions by 2050, and in this sector to achieve zero emissions by 2050.
member of the commission.
– mr president, honourable members, indeed today we discuss the compromises reached on two very important climate regulations, as it has just been eloquently pointed out.
it is an ambitious agreement that will decisively contribute to our climate objectives.
on f-gases, the new rules before you today will strongly reduce f-gas emissions.
this high ambition is great news in view of our climate targets for 2030 and reaching climate neutrality by 2050. in particular, the use of the most important group of f-gases, the hfcs, will be phased out by 2050, and we will strongly reduce other relevant f-gases such as sf6, the strongest known greenhouse gas.
this will transform a number of sectors of our economy, including the air conditioning and heat pump sector, the electricity sector using electrical switchgear and the medical sector of asthma sprays, so that they are no longer depending on the highly-warming greenhouse gases.
i perfectly join what has been said on how you can combine europe's competitiveness, industrial competitiveness by improving our environmental approach and also by achieving our objectives.
business as usual is no longer possible, and the european industry has an opportunity to become the first to supply these low-carbon and climate-neutral solutions globally.
already today, we are witnessing that the offer of fully climate-friendly heat pumps and switchgear on the eu market is increasing by the day, and many of these types of equipment are produced here in europe, with a number of large new plants that have opened in recent months.
not least, this transition will bring significant financial benefits for citizens to with, for instance, more energy savings and less operation costs for many types of equipment, including heat pumps.
turning to the ozone-depleting substances regulation.
going ahead with the successful phase out of ozone-depleting substances is also essential for our climate agenda.
thanks to the montreal protocol, we can expect that the ozone hole will recover by approximately 2070 and prevent a major impact in global warming.
up to one degree of climate warming will be prevented by mid-century because of the global elimination of ozone-depleting substances.
the eu will now be able to capture the large potential to save emissions from old insulation foams in houses for renovation or demolition, a measure that will certainly stimulate the recycling sector.
but the compromise goes further, thanks to your efforts, in particular regarding the more hands-on approach to reduce feedstock use in chemical production, the main remaining use of ozone-depleting substances in the eu.
for this reason, i ask all distinguished members here today to strongly endorse these compromises so that we can move on to implementation and make sure these emissions savings and other benefits can be achieved as quickly as possible.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
– mr president, dear colleagues, the deal reached on the new f-gas regulation sets us on the path towards the ambitious goal of reducing emissions by the equivalent of 40 million tonnes co2 in the next six years, and achieving a full phase-out by 2050. standing here on behalf of sara skyttedal, rapporteur for the itre opinion, i have to say that this path is not only ambitious, but also realistic.
the groups to the left in this house tend to view climate legislation in an astonishingly naive and short-sighted way, where the highest bidder has the most climate-friendly policy.
i'm really happy that the new f-gas regulation instead follows the long-term balanced prescription of the centre-right: a climate policy that sets ambitious targets, but also delivers on them on account of securing the competitiveness of european industry.
– mr president, commissioner, colleagues, for ozone-depleting substances i think we have reached a very good deal.
we will protect more the ozone layer, which is perfect, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, jessica polfjärd.
and we strike a balance that’s very important between existing and emerging, more sustainable technologies.
we don’t impose a major risk on the energy and healthcare sectors within the eu, and i’m happy for this.
this initiative significantly enhances transparency around product sustainability, guiding consumers toward choices with detailed information on durability and reparability.
i believe this clause will safeguard the digital development from being stifled, fostering a balance between environmental goals and technological progress.
we must ensure a european single market in accordance with our values and principles, finding harmony between consumer protection and the environment without compromising the competitiveness of our businesses.
our growth is not sustainable.
we need nothing less than a restructuring of our economic model so that we can buy better, more sustainable products that last.
believing in the potential of each member state, managing the legislative formula of the green transition responsibly and in good faith, is the first important step in recognising a pragmatic and realistic approach to environmental change processes.
the commission has come up with a number of green legislative proposals with an immediate impact on farmers, both in increasing the bureaucratic burden and in new requirements aimed at combating climate change.
it is rightly calling on the european union to exploit the potential of geothermal energy to a much greater extent because it has one huge advantage.
it's a stable renewable resource that's weather-independent.
the earth is always emitting heat and energy.
even these systems are capable of storing excess energy from other renewable sources.
i myself have been living for several years in a city in northwestern czech republic, in litomerece, which is a pioneer in the efforts to harness geothermal energy in our country.
it is unacceptable, as you have said, that in 2023 there will be no stable energy supply and heating for every household in the union.
we have begun to rebuild the technologically obsolete housing and heating systems of homes, which is frustrating, but let me tell you, madam speaker, that we would very much like to vote on this report, and we consider it very, very important that the energy crisis finally begins to be eliminated, but the fact that the left continues to use such an important context to promote such ideological battles and popular ideological issues under the gender mainstream, i find problematic.
but above all, it is a transversal, inclusive and cross-sectional approach that we need to address the challenges of the environmental and digital transition.
strengthening investment in infrastructure and public services and in energy-efficient housing is a first step that will need to be further intensified.
women were most affected by energy crises, pandemics and inflation.
please give a chance to sustainable and competitive european agriculture.
but the main problem with this 2040 climate plan is something else entirely.
have you told farmers and people that after energy, transportation, housing, we're going to auction off meat, milk and other staples?
mr president, mr commissioner, it is extremely important that the european union remains consistent with the idea behind the european green plan and that by 2050 we become the first climate-neutral continent in the world.
cutting greenhouse gas emissions by 90 percent by 2040 is very ambitious, but i'd like to know, and i'm not clear enough how they plan to achieve these ambitious plans.
so when planning such ambitious climate targets, we need to be clear and concrete.
so we logically expected that you would stop thinking about new climate ambitious targets and bureaucracy and instead correct the climate package that you accepted, for example, lowering the price of emissions permits or proposing to lift the ban on combustion engines.
at a time when the european union is no longer competitive due to high energy prices, are you considering another ambitious climate plan and want to spend up to 600 or 700 billion euros a year on it?
there are places in europe where people are simply already full of these unrealistic climate ambitions and your cabinet.