many people have chosen heat pumps precisely because they produce heat in a very cheap and efficient way without any dirty or toxic emissions.
we are not denying the attention to environmental protection, nor are we criticizing research into alternative technologies.
i repeat: reducing greenhouse gases and looking for more sustainable and natural solutions in the refrigeration and heat pump sector is our vision.
it will be crucial to assess in the next term whether this legislation will meet the expectations of operators, actors and the environment.
do we not think that companies and workers need stable, clear regulations that protect the environment and not neglect to defend their businesses?
as a young man, i heard almost daily in the news nasty reports about the hole in the ozone layer, and that led to action.
the montreal protocol to save the ozone layer is a good example of how if we put our shoulders together somewhere, we can solve problems.
the ozone layer is recovering under the montreal protocol.
yet substances that affect the ozone layer and break down the ozone layer remain a major concern.
especially since they are contributing so much to the climate crisis.
but we need to do much more work replacing ozone depleting gases used in manufacturing processes.
fluorinated greenhouse gas sf6 is 25,000 times more harmful to the environment than co2 when it enters the atmosphere.
this is equivalent to the annual co2 emissions of the netherlands.
it is also wise in industrial policy, because in europe we have developed, thanks to our innovative power, in recent years a technology that is able to completely replace this harmful gas in the power lines of our energy networks with a sustainable alternative.
but the bottom line is that we are now paving the way for this technological success story to be passed on to the eu and mass production of the parts with the new, climate-damaging replacement gases to begin.
i would like to thank all the visionaries at the berlin site and all the colleagues in the commission, the council and parliament who have contributed to this important milestone for a climate neutral europe.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to briefly illustrate some of the objectives of the contribution we have made as a committee to industry, always working, as i have done, in the conviction that the environmental protection policies we are pursuing are not only compatible with competitiveness but can also boost the competitiveness of our production system.
mr president, honourable commissioner, dear colleagues, the scientific evidence have already confirmed fluorinated gas and ozone-depleting substances which are used in everyday-life appliances, like refrigerators and air conditioners, are highly potent human-made greenhouse gases, with some of the worst global-warming potential, often several thousand times stronger than co2.
by strengthening rules to massively reduce greenhouse gas emissions from fluorinated gas and ozone-depleting substances by regulation, we prevent almost 500 million tonnes of further emissions by 2050, and it is much more than the equivalent emissions from the netherlands.
the regulations we conclude today will provide the european market and citizens incentives to use climate-friendly alternatives, and also contribute to further stimulation of the global market in order to accelerate this path of transition in third countries.
we have also to make climate-friendly technologies more widely available to accelerate the replacement of these substances with alternatives.
we all know that this year hundreds of thousands of europeans died prematurely, and many more suffer from heart and lung diseases or pollution-induced cancers.
the longer we wait to reduce air and atmosphere pollution, the higher the cost to society.
we need urgently to adopt more effective, efficient and immediately applicable measures to improve and protect the quality of our life and the environment.
the green deal is our strategy to reduce the harmful effects on the environment, climate change and even the ozone layer that protects the earth from harmful radiation.
the chemicals that reduce the ozone layer can be reduced in many areas of our lives and activities.
the good news is that the ozone layer can be improved with good measures.
of course, with the use of newer, less emissions-reducing smoke-making devices.
healthy, locally grown food is the best solution to reduce emissions.
mr president, dear commissioner, i remember talk of the ozone hole, and then we people got together and made the solutions in 1987 in the montreal protocol which phased out many substances that were responsible for the hole in the ozone layer.
i only heard two critical groups here, so we are together here making decisions that we also don't need f-gases that are 2.5% of our greenhouse gas emissions, and that number has doubled since 1990 unlike greenhouse gases in general.
i’m very happy with the majority here, and then that balanced outcome that we can work for the people, for the climate and for our industries.
yes, we must fight climate change.
so it's right that we're not going to use fluoridated greenhouse gases until 2050. these so-called f-gases are damaging the climate, and that's exactly what we want to prevent.
europe requires more than eur 500 billion of additional investment funding annually to ensure its sustainable competitiveness and resilience.
the report also mandates the commission to carry out a holistic assessment of the financial markets legislation with respect to commodity derivatives, in light of the learnings from the energy crisis.
on commodity derivative markets, parliament introduced review clauses in mifid that will allow us to assess their functioning also in light of the recent energy crisis.
but those who criticize this and who remain silent about israel's crimes in gaza are playing a hypocritical game and are not contributing to a sustainable solution in the region.
you want to promote fair mobility, then don't let that part of the negotiations go to waste, show that you can: make good compromises that will move europe forward, strengthen it and protect its people.
they're humiliated because they have to waste hours and days at border crossings.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
we have made progress in our climate policy.
in this regard, on top of the work on the remaining legislative files, we will continue our clean transition dialogues with the industrial sectors crucial for european future competitiveness and those sectors which are undergoing the most profound green and climate transition, including the discussions and dialogues with farmers as was proposed by madam niebler and mr mureşan.
this is happening at a very difficult time, during war, in the price and energy crises, in the recent inflation, in the climate and migration challenges and in the rise of crime in many member states.
with a view to european food security, it is necessary to ensure that we can continue to feed ourselves and that we take farmers on our path towards greater sustainability and not move production to third countries with lower social and sustainability standards.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
for three out of four eu citizens in the eu, the environmental impact of their product is important.
and to counter this urge, the climate crisis and the consumption of resources, we have to make it happen.
we must direct this great purchasing power to sustainable economies and to sustainable farms.
and we have to make sure that consumers are not being led backwards into thinking they're consuming sustainably, and the product is actually climate-damaging.
in the future, no clothes, no cosmetics, no cars or any world cups can be called climate neutral if they are not.
the vote tomorrow will finally let consumers know that sustainable products are also truly sustainable.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
both india and the eu are needed in the fight against climate crisis and in advancing global security.
the partnership is necessary, for example, for development and transformation to sustainable energy, for promotion of human rights and democracy and rules-based international order in the indo-pacific region and elsewhere.
india and the eu share many challenges, from the climate and ecological crisis to security, environment and rapid global technological developments.
india’s geopolitical positioning and domestic policy choices, particularly on climate and environmental issues, have implications for the indo-pacific region, and indeed for the rest of the world.
the eu and india have a common interest in each other’s security, prosperity and sustainable development, and together can contribute to a safer, cleaner and more stable world.
in 2021, the eu and india adopted a connectivity partnership and together with the eu’s global gateway strategy and the european investment bank, we are making progress in key sectors such as energy, urbanisation, digitalisation and transport.
we call for redoubling of the efforts in non-proliferation for nuclear weapons and, in a relatively energy-deficient country, we still ask it to reduce its dependence on russian oil.
but i think we need to propose alternative energy as the replacement.
its technical proficiency and technical advances in renewable energy are an obvious area for mutual cooperation.
there is such a huge potential, even for our european companies, in the field of sustainability alone.
trade and technology, european investment and knowledge exchange could explosively advance renewable energy such as hydrogen or solar.
the commission believes that we need 620 billion euros of additional investment to make our economy competitive and climate-friendly.
mr president, we want the belgian presidency to continue the same path as the admittedly successful pedro sánchez presidency, with climate change, economic recovery and enlargement as its priorities.
the european union must act immediately on climate change.
it is urgent to create a pact for social progress and employment which guarantees a better future for the people, while respecting the sovereignty of each state, its economic, social and productive development, overcoming structural deficits, ensuring employment for all, raising labour and social rights, providing quality public services in health, education, social security, housing, culture, promoting effective economic, social and territorial cohesion and protecting the environment.
first, moving to a risk-based, differentiated approach to ensure realistic and sustainable debt reduction.
second, building in strong incentives for investments and reform to support sustainable growth.
in the current uncertain economic and geopolitical environment, let us not lose sight of the ultimate goal: a reform framework that allows for gradual debt reduction while making space for the massive public investments that europe needs to successfully address the challenges before us.
this is why the commission made a proposal that is more country-specific when it comes to achieving sustainable debt levels, which i welcome.
yes, ‘sustainability’ – or ‘stewardship’, as i call it as a christian democrat – means respecting our planet.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a large majority in this house recognizes the climate emergency and has voted to commit to carbon neutrality by 2050. at the same time, the russian aggression is confronting us with the need for a major effort to support ukraine and ultimately for our own defence.
voting for these rules is a slow suicide for the european union, environmental, economic, geopolitical and democratic.
but your debt policy here is financing climate change and mass migration with exponential rising costs without added value.
the commission has already made a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of the environment.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of workers from the risks of the environment, which is to be implemented by the member states, is to be adopted by the commission.
do not think of returning home the enemy's scalp for the short-term electoral consent of the next election, because the future of integration is at stake, with the goals of ecological and digital transition.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
because the solar industry creates millions of jobs, just like other energy transition industries, heat pumps, battery cells, electrolysis, etc.
this means that we must face the reality of the fossil climate crisis and finally see the transition to climate neutrality as an opportunity.
mr president, mr commissioner, a productive system can only compete in the medium and long term, be resilient and robust, sustainable and viable if it provides affordable goods and services to people who live with dignity and enjoy the same opportunities.
the digital and climate revolution we are facing requires knowledge and skills.
the transition to an emissions-neutral economy is therefore impossible with underemployment, an injustice which coincides with the fact that 77 per cent of european firms report having difficulty finding qualified people for new occupational profiles.
we all agree that we are in an economic environment which needs us to improve and further develop our competitiveness.
and what has been said about the social environment, about a fair balance between work and free time and family – that’s what makes a job a quality job.
the commission’s position on deep-sea mining in international seabed is very clear, and as stated in the eu biodiversity strategy for 2030 and our international ocean governance agenda adopted in june 22, we advocate for prohibiting deep-sea mining until scientific gaps are properly filled.
furthermore, as required under the united nations convention on the law of the seas, the necessary provisions in the exploitation regulations for the effective protection of the marine environment must be in place.
the european union, via its research and innovation framework programmes, has invested more than eur 80 million in research projects related to the impacts of deep-sea mining to the marine environment and to environmentally friendly technologies.
studies clearly show that our current understanding of deep-sea ecosystem functioning and recoverability is still very limited, and that there is considerable uncertainty about the effects of mining on these processes.
long-term studies are needed to gauge the full range of impacts of mining on ocean biodiversity and ecosystem services, and their potential for recovery.
our concerns with deep-sea mining therefore relate to the protection and restoration of the marine environment, deep-sea biodiversity and the mitigation of climate change.
we are very concerned by norway’s decision and by the consequences it could have on the environment, including on fish stocks in that area.
the need to ensure sustainable use of marine biological diversity of areas beyond national jurisdiction was what brought us this agreement.
moreover, norway is a contracting party to the so-called ospar convention for the protection of the marine environment of the north-east atlantic, including arctic waters, against the adverse effects of human activities.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the use of the sea as a source of energy.
so it could be that in a few years we could get critical raw materials from norway instead of china, russia or the congo from proven sustainable deep-sea mining.
tears of joy have flowed here in this house when you declared a climate emergency, thus creating another basis for making citizens pay, pay and pay again.
does the commission really need new problems in terms of emissions protection, as we are discussing now?
and we need to create an environment where victims can be confident in their actions and offenders can be afraid of prosecution.
and i would rather this house put as much energy into solving the s&d corruption scandal as it does into this topic.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
we have a strong mandate, because all political groups voted for it, and we are asking the commission and the member states to support the development of geothermal energy.
we regret to note that geothermal energy still plays a marginal role in the renewable energy debate.
i have to say, it was a surprise to me personally, as we talk so much about green transformation, and an important topic like geothermal energy has been missed.
and the benefits of this energy are enormous: little impact on the environment, stable and predictable energy costs, low operating costs, long life and reliability.
in statistics, geothermal energy does not appear as a separate category, but as other renewable energy sources.
so this is basically an invisible sector in the energy market, which is negatively affecting competitiveness, access to finance, political support.
our report highlights the existing barriers to the development of geothermal energy and recommends the solutions that must be taken by the member states, the commission and the sector.
we call on the european commission to establish a geothermal alliance uniting the member states, the geothermal sector, the scientific community and civil society around the task of developing geothermal energy, exchanging best practices and implementing the future strategy effectively.
finally, i would like to highlight the particular role of geothermal energy development for energy transformation areas.
geothermal energy is an integral part of the path to a just energy transformation.
it can not only provide energy sources but also compensate for the loss of jobs in the mining sector and attract new business projects in industry, food and agriculture.
– madam president, honourable members, let me thank professor krasnodębski and welcome the own-initiative report presented today, which underlines the need to accelerate the deployment of geothermal energy across the european union.
we need various sources of renewable energy to grow fast if we want to achieve the eu's ambitious new renewable energy target of at least 42.5 % by 2030, adopted last year under the revised renewable energy directive.
it also implies making our energy system fit for enabling this fast transformation and ensuring that energy remains affordable.
geothermal energy so far has had a limited role in the european union energy mix, but it has potential to grow.
the adoption for the first time of binding targets for renewable heating and cooling under the revised directive will be a key driver for the uptake of technologies such as geothermal heat pumps and for further driving down their cost.
we have also been working to address the skills bottleneck, from the launch of a large-scale partnership on renewables skills to the introduction of new measures on training, certification and awareness in the renewable energy directive.
a second important angle is the role of district heating and cooling systems using geothermal energy.
they can provide affordable energy to whole cities, blend in new energy sources and provide flexibility services, for example in combination with heat storage.
the revised energy efficiency directive and renewable energy directive define a pathway to the decarbonisation of existing district heating systems and the development of new renewables-based ones.
this is also about good energy planning.
the new energy efficiency directive introduces new local planning requirements for the 1 000 largest municipalities in the european union, a strong incentive for geothermal projects where much of the complexity is at the planning and exploration phase.
in parallel, the new renewable energy directive will ensure that district heating systems are taken into account when planning electricity infrastructure.
a third aspect is related to competitiveness: with the introduction in the renewable energy directive of renewable energy benchmarks for the industry sector, we would increase interest for applications such as the ones highlighted in the report.
it is a great pleasure to stand here today and to consider a report on geothermal energy.
it was not a given that we could get it done, but we did, and we should be happy about it, because there are so many positive elements and consequences and prospects in this form of energy.
with geothermal energy, we can increase our independence from russian gas.
it's sustainable, it's constant, it's affordable, it's low impact on the environment, it's minimal land use, it's easy to integrate into the landscape, so "what's not to like?"
modernisation of district heating systems, access to data and faster authorization of this promising form of energy are needed.
this report today is a huge step forward in the proliferation of geothermal energy, so let us call on the commission to put a real turbo on this in the next term of office, whoever the commissioner is.
this is the right way to go in the face of climate change and in the face of putin's gas independence.
the commission has been trying to find a way to ensure that the european parliament is able to take action in the field of energy and energy policy.
the result was written in advance: total dependence on foreign powers, energy production lagging behind, unable to meet growing demand and supply stability compromised.
and now, after being the primary culprits of an energy crisis, you're rushing to explore geothermal technologies.
and even if by accident you make a sensible decision, as today with this proposal on geothermal energy, it is once again the citizens who will ultimately have to pay the bill for your many catastrophic decisions.
madam president, geothermal energy provides us with clean energy, which is always available, at a cost that defies all competition.
it can create jobs, create jobs, and contribute fully to our energy sovereignty.
it also helps to unlock territories which are now dependent on energy needs, especially overseas.
this shows once again that the energy transition must be planned and that we cannot rely on private interests driven by the profit trap.
so yes, today i fully support the objectives set out in this report to develop the use of geothermal energy in europe for heat, electricity generation and also for minerals.
this is of course important, given the earthquake and environmental risks.
it is time for the european union to fully develop geothermal energy.
the european economy is at a low level of competitiveness due to its failed sanctions and energy policies in brussels.
economic growth requires a new strategy and a source of energy available in as many places as possible at a low cost.
geothermal energy is like that.
geothermal energy is a predictable, affordable and green energy source.
outsourced technology independent of price movements in the energy market.
hungary, for example, has the largest geothermal heating system in the union, which was delivered last year and 12 cities are already using geothermal energy.
the commission has failed to find a european financial support framework for geothermal energy.
by june at the latest, we need green energy instead of green ideology.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the use of geothermal energy.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this report and endorse the call for the european commission to carry out a comprehensive assessment of the potential of geothermal energy in the european union.
the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the use of geothermal energy.
however, a map of european geothermal resources and the current environmental and economic conditions for exploitation is lacking.
we have a 100 percent renewable outpost of municipalities between pisa and grosseto and they're all geothermal.
a net-zero emissions europe by 2050 and our strategic autonomy also go through here.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, more than 15% of electricity consumption by 2040: this is the potential of geothermal energy for our continent.
the use of the earth's heat is therefore a key step towards achieving climate neutrality through a supply source which, unlike photovoltaics and wind, does not require raw materials from third countries and does not suffer from intermittent problems.
more work is needed to seize the opportunities geothermal energy offers.
climate neutral, inexhaustible, basic load-bearing these are just three of the many benefits of geothermal energy.
and that is why geothermal energy should play a much more important role in europe's energy supply than it has ever played.
we as the eu must be quick now, because geothermal energy has already come into practice.
the project is to power a whole new business district with geothermal energy.
if we continue to support such lighthouses in the future by the eu, and learn from good examples from other member states, our goal of achieving climate neutrality will become more concrete.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
in sudan, the conflict has exacerbated an already deplorable hunger landscape fueled by intercommunal violence, economic crisis, rising basic food prices and climate change.
we are now witnessing an environmental disaster on our western coast of the european union.
that is the task here and now, but in the long run we must also ensure that these environmental disasters do not happen.
we must minimize the risk of environmental disasters in the future.
mr president, i would like to thank all civil society, especially galician, for their efforts to collect and dispose of waste on the galician beaches.
we hope, commissioner, and you have said it right, that this new environmental catastrophe will serve to take effective european prevention measures to prevent further leaks and the environmental damage caused by these microplastics.
environmental impact must be avoided.
lords of climate change deniers, the best example: the spanish pp.
for example, i think one of the aspects is that it has developed significantly and i agree with it - environmental policy and all environmental aspects, but not the social and economic aspects, and we cannot leave them behind.
the three pillars are fundamental: a modernisation of the fleet, an approach to the energy transition, and the cfp must also be prepared for this.
catches and incomes are improving and impacts on the marine environment have decreased.
fishers are facing a multitude of new challenges – climate change, more and more competition for marine space, rising costs and the need to transition to greener energies, amongst others.
on small-scale fisheries, which was also mentioned, and article 17 of the cfp, the commission is working with member states and the scientific and technical economic committee for fisheries to assess the approach in member states for allocating their fishing opportunities to ensure the transparency of criteria applied and their conformity with the cfp provisions, and encourages, of course, the use of criteria that can foster sustainable fishing practices and support small-scale and coastal fisheries.
dear members of the parliament, dear colleagues, trust and engagement between all stakeholders from producers to policymakers is key to achieving our sustainability objectives and to strengthening our open strategic autonomy in the areas of fisheries.
and this will then contribute to a discussion between fisheries managers and stakeholders on future-proofing the policy in terms of both social and environmental resilience.
the vote will take place today, 18 january 2024.
the next item on the agenda is the discussion on the report by mr niclas autumn on behalf of the fisheries committee on the eu action plan: protecting and restoring marine ecosystems for sustainable and resilient fisheries (2023/2124(ini)) (a9-0437/2023).
i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
– mr president, members of the parliament, thank you very much for this enriching debate, which has helped us to clarify and share our views regarding the action plan, but also reaffirm once more that we all want to remedy the negative environmental impacts, because the future of our fisheries will depend on our ability to react and adapt.
if we want the eu to continue being a leading actor on global marine conservation, we need to lead the transition to sustainability.
i count on the commitment of this house to work jointly with the commission in the pursuit of the biodiversity goal, so we can offer our citizens the highest standards of marine conservation and supply of high-quality seafood, while ensuring the livelihoods of european fishing communities also in the future.
this is just crazy, and we need to stop this madness that under the guise of climate change is banning meat consumption and destroying our agriculture.
because the 50 billion could have been spent on the farmers who are suffering from the eu's climate policy, or on the many families who are faced with the choice of either heating or eating healthy because of high inflation.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
the commission has also proposed a new regulation on the protection of animals and the environment, which will be adopted by the council on 1 january.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
this hinders integration and economic development and also negatively impacts the environment.
the agenda is to discuss the commission's declaration on the eu's climate objective for 2040 (2024/2547(rsp)).
– madam president, honourable members, many thanks for all the efforts and the work put into climate action in the past weeks, months and years.
today is another step in the european union’s journey towards climate neutrality.
based on the best available science and a detailed impact assessment – as i’m sure you have seen – we are recommending that the 2040 target should be a 90 % cut in emissions.
well, at the risk of repeating myself, because the case for climate action is beyond doubt and requires planning in the here and now.
we’ve just lived through the hottest summer on record, and we’ve seen for ourselves the devastation that climate change brings and sadly, evermore in human lives.
one clearly is the leg of climate action and that we have to stay the course.
i am absolutely convinced we do need to make sure that we have the two, because the vast majority of our citizens see the effects of climate change, do want to have us take action, but are also worried about what that implies for their livelihood.
ladies and gentlemen, if we manage to pull this off, if we manage to do this, we will also increase our energy independence and strengthen our eu’s open strategic autonomy.
ladies and gentlemen, today’s communication lays some further foundations for future work to ramp up affordable, clean energy, to make our rules as easy as possible to navigate and to have a smart european approach to de-risk private investments in the key technologies of the future.
the eu’s emissions, at 7 % of the global total, are only one piece of the puzzle.
but as global leaders in climate action, we cannot call on other countries to do more to accelerate their transitions and not continue ourselves.
we’ll therefore also establish a dedicated commission taskforce on carbon market diplomacy.
we will offer our expertise to other countries that wish to create their own version of what i view as one of the most successful things we have done in the domain of climate action: an emissions trading system.
and this is one example of where, with other partners, we can race to the top both from a climate action perspective and from the perspective of a global level playing field for sustainable businesses to flourish.
tackling the climate crisis is a marathon, not a sprint.
so today it is not a decision where the commission says we know everything and we are pushing it now, but there is a dialogue on this goal but perhaps even more importantly, on the conditions for us to achieve even ambitious climate targets.
we are indeed seeing a great deal of interest in our emissions trading and in cbam.
the directorate-general for climate is flooded with requests from third countries.
this could be the most effective, cheapest and most effective climate action ever -- that we work with those who want to work with us and thus form a strong international group.
many people, especially those with low incomes, who work hard every day but have little savings and who are difficult to invest in at first, need more support not only from the climate social fund but also from national funds.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commissioner, you are proposing today and it was an obligation that we had set together in european climate law a target of reducing co2 emissions by 90% by 2040. this figure is based on science, and we therefore support it.
so supporting this goal, and also supporting the conditions that will make us succeed in achieving, in real life, in an acceptable, fair and competitive way, our climate goal.
by the way, in the climate law, we said ‘within six months of the global stocktake, we will come up with this discussion,’ and the global stocktake was in dubai.
people who are surprised now, maybe they should read why they voted for the climate law, because then you agreed with this time path.
if you are serious, looking at our historical responsibility and the possibilities of our co2 budget, basically even we should be climate neutral by 2040. that’s what science is telling us.
not only is it to achieve net zero co2 by 2050, and from then on, even to remove co2 from the atmosphere with the absurd goal of reducing that atmospheric co2.
no, the political climate madness is now set to start new high altitudes by 2040, a 90% reduction in co2 emissions compared to 1990. let's look at my country, the green climate world champion germany: deindustrialization is progressing rapidly because industry can no longer afford the world's most expensive electricity prices there.
the co2 reduction is still only a modest 36.8%, because electricity on many days a year, despite record renewable energy output, is the one on paper on many days, over 90% of which comes from coal, gas and oil.
we're just so excited about the co2 emissions going down.
the eu, however, has only 9.5% of global co2 emissions.
brics countries, on the other hand, are looking forward to increasing co2 emissions and a global gdp growth of 32%.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 90% by 2040 is the right thing to do and you are keeping your commitments to us.
unfortunately, our economy today depends on fossil fuels, and if we want to make it sustainable, we need investment.
we do not turn our backs on the new generations and the future of the entire world, threatened by the catastrophe of climate change.
we are the most sustainable continent in the world and we have a very challenging business.
we think of the classic and very competitive european energy industries: basic chemistry, steelmaking, ceramics, glass or cement.
it's not about reducing environmental ambitions.
it is to reconcile them with a sound industrial management plan for the european economy, because the risk we are facing, which will have a huge social impact, but above all, which will also reduce the cultural strength of our research and, therefore, our propensity for innovation, is to have a sustainable continent, but without companies, without industry, without research and, therefore, without a heart.
we want to be climate neutral by 2050 at the latest, and we have to achieve that goal, which we owe the europeans.
and for that we need an ambitious interim target: we must save at least 90% of our greenhouse gases by 2040 otherwise we will fail in our efforts, otherwise we will not make it possible for europeans to live here well in the future.
but it is also very clear that support for the poorest, especially those who cannot afford a climate-friendly life simply by moving to air-conditioned homes, is still lacking.
mr president, commissioner, we have a legal obligation to set a climate target for 2040 and to start the process towards adopting the target.
that is what we all agreed on during the negotiation about the climate law.
commissioner, your climate target is questionable.
even söder and aiwanger in bavaria want to be climate neutral by 2040. so, just 90% reduction is really not an overload.
the economy wants bold, long-term climate targets because they ensure prosperity and investment security.
mr hoekstra, ccs is not a solution to the climate crisis, as you said in november, and now you are doing the opposite: gas and coal power plants are simply going to run longer with ccs.
let's take what works -- that's cheap solar and wind energy and bold climate protection.
but that doesn't mean that we should be doing climate change work elsewhere.
this means that we are taking on our historic responsibility, and this means that we need to achieve climate protection, climate neutrality as soon as possible, at best by 2040. i also have a question for you, mr liese: you said yesterday that the commission has officials who are only thinking about torturing european citizens, european industry and european farmers.
your climate warfare has gone beyond the call of duty.
the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the subject of the european parliament's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
we have a large majority in this house against the left, which wants to ban nuclear power completely in the european energy mix.
climate action is urgent and we need urgent action, the commissioner said barely four months ago.
but less than a week after the farmers in europe blocked roads and set fire to everything in protest against environmental and climate measures, this commissioner is giving up everything to give them what they want.
by not abolishing fossil subsidies, by not reducing emissions from agriculture and by not stopping the promotion of meat.
we're not going to solve the climate crisis like this.
to stop climate change, to save the planet, and to give farmers a real perspective for the future.
climate neutrality by 2050 is our common goal.
the commissioner, a climate social fund and flexibility in enlarged emissions trading, an eu commodity strategy, the conversion of existing hydrogen gas pipelines, the option of modular nuclear reactors, no forced sanitation of buildings, less regulation of zero-emission technologies, a dialogue with european farmers all these solutions compatible with reality have been or are still being debated by parliament.
i am firmly convinced that climate protection must be based on working technologies, efficient and affordable.
the commission's proposal for our 2040 climate target is the absolute minimum of what is necessary and feasible.
the conservatives are now criticizing that we should first achieve our 2030 climate targets, but they are also the ones who are not missing out on the opportunity to sabotage the commission's right-wing climate policy instead of looking for real solutions.
if we continue to rely on combustion engines while gasoline and diesel prices go up because the cdu wanted to do that in the emissions trading, or if we invest massively in e-mobility, in public transport, in sustainable infrastructure, and thereby create sustainable alternatives that people can really use?
we must oppose this, we must expose these lies, for the protection of the social climate!
and many of my colleagues in the last debate have addressed the farmers' protests and justified them as farmers against climate policy.
we need to make a stronger policy to waste less water.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
from increased geopolitical tensions to climate disasters to the soaring global infrastructure investment gap – the times are challenging for europe and for the world.
the global gateway investment strategy is europe’s eur 300-billion injection to accelerate the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
together, we will unleash namibia’s potential as a frontrunner in green energy and help europe to become the first carbon-neutral continent by 2050. this example illustrates the kind of comprehensive, quality-based partnership that distinguishes global gateway from other partnership offers.
not only do projects of the belt and road often come paired with allegations of corruption or environmental damage, they can also lead participating countries into a debt spiral.
will we create the energy of tomorrow so that value is still produced in the countries where it is produced, which is the wealth of the world?
– mr president, madam commissioner, colleagues, i’m glad we have this debate, because we need the full energy and the creativity and the common efforts also of this house to promote the global gateway’s agenda.
global gateway is not development policy as usual: it is co-development policy, it is a transformative approach with clear priorities that are focussed on the digital transformation, the climate and realistic, resilient supply chains.
the united nations estimates that the additional amount required for achieving the sustainable development goals is $4.2 trillion a year.
the real race, however, is against the time that remains for us and our partner countries, who have the same right to participate in shaping self-sustaining economic development, to fight climate change socially.
instead of putting geopolitical rivalries on the backs of developing countries, we need to pool our resources and invest money with the help of existing multilateral institutions in a meaningful way and in line with the 17 sustainable development goals.
success depends on our ability to choose projects that are in line with the priorities of partner countries, including local and regional governments, but also on our ability to ensure that our efforts contribute significantly to the sustainable development goals and have a tangible impact on people's lives.
finally, to ensure the success of global gateway, we need to deploy partnerships that chart a coherent path to sustainable development and that create a difference for our global south partners from the offerings of our geopolitical competitors, such as china and russia.