the negotiations on the climate-damaging f-gases were certainly not easy, but they were worth it.
because with this agreement we are taking concrete climate action by cutting the use of f-gases.
by taking concrete action, we are benefiting the climate.
the agreement will reduce the eu's climate impact by as much as 2.5%.
this is more than the emissions of the entire eu aviation sector.
with this agreement we are taking an important step forward in the fight against climate change.
vote for the climate.
this is possible because eu rules today are totally unclear on what local authorities have to do with social and environmental requirements.
the climate, nature, the animals also need us to produce our own food in europe, because we are the greenest food cluster in the world and have the best animal welfare.
we must produce more and produce less and produce more and more europeans for the benefit of the economy, the climate, nature, animal welfare, farmers and european citizens.
geothermal energy, it's down in our underground and it's just waiting to come up and contribute to the huge amounts of renewable and very stable energy that we're actually talking about.
we have simply not taken geothermal energy seriously in time and have provided the necessary framework and tools to use it.
this means that we could have spent a lot of time at first agreeing on whether we believe in geothermal energy as part of the future energy mix in the eu.
geothermal energy is an important part of the energy of the future in the eu, and i would like to thank all my colleagues, negotiators and in particular our negotiator, professor krasnodębski, for a very good and focused cooperation.
the report also states that we want a strategy that actually promotes the proliferation of geothermal energy.
data, some of which actually exists but is not shared or available to those who can and want to start extracting geothermal energy as quickly as possible.
the report also states that a geothermal energy extraction project must be compared with all other energy types, particularly in terms of financing and insurance.
the climate struggle is not won without geothermal energy, and the earth is literally burning beneath us.
in less than two years, the heat from the earth will be felt in the old houses of aarhus, denmark's second largest city, because a project is underway which will supply the old houses of 20 percent of the old houses of 36,000 households with geothermal energy in a few years, and it will be the largest geothermal project in the eu.
it's a good idea, and we need more of these projects because it's renewable energy.
it is stable energy and it is energy that can help us get rid of the last parts of putin's gas that the eu still imports.
we need this so we can get more green heat to the benefit of the climate, to the detriment of putin.
bundtrawl can easily be sustainable.
let us not waste time debating whether or not to remove the veto from all eu countries.
technologies like crispr are a huge asset for both the climate, the environment and food security, and it will be a huge help to our farmers.
the climate campaign.
climate change has long since ceased to be something we should worry about our children experiencing.
climate change is destroying people's homes, wiping out entire cities, and killing people every day.
that we show that we're a green superpower when it comes to climate.
today the commission says we must achieve a climate target of 90% by 2030. if that were the case, we'd be climate neutral by 2040. but i am positively surprised, because i can feel the right wing and the black industry breathing down our necks.
they will stop all climate progress and slow down all green legislation.
we can put the health and safety of those workers who build our wind turbines, assemble our batteries and energy renovate our homes at the forefront.
when we see that the workers producing our batteries, making our renewable energy, or energy renovating our houses will be better protected.