madam president, the ecological disaster that is happening on the galician coast due to the microplastic pellet spill that fell into the sea from a flag-of-convenience ship needs the help of europe.
where sustainability criteria are introduced, their content is limited by the interpretation of free competition and, moreover, since they must be linked to the subject of the contract, general clauses on human rights, workers' or women's rights are excluded.
we need strategic autonomy and equal-to-equal relations for the mutual benefit of our peoples, with human rights, peace, disarmament, climate justice and multilateralism at the centre.
diplomacy and climate and social justice are the best tools for an autonomous human rights-based foreign policy for all peoples and everywhere.
that's why we can't waste time.
we must fight poverty and inequalities by reinforcing the social union, and ensure that the climate and digital transitions are socially just.
the energy crisis is total.
as social democrats, we believe in the importance of promoting sustainable and inclusive growth based on the principles of social justice and environmental sustainability, while strengthening the sustainability of public debt.
as social democrats, we believe in the importance of promoting sustainable and inclusive growth based on the principles of social justice and environmental sustainability, while strengthening the sustainability of public debt.
as social democrats, we believe in the importance of promoting sustainable and inclusive growth based on the principles of social justice and environmental sustainability, while strengthening the sustainability of public debt.
as social democrats, we believe in the importance of promoting sustainable and inclusive growth based on the principles of social justice and environmental sustainability, while strengthening the sustainability of public debt.
as social democrats, we believe in the importance of promoting sustainable and inclusive growth based on the principles of social justice and environmental sustainability, while strengthening the sustainability of public debt.
as social democrats, we believe in the importance of promoting sustainable and inclusive growth based on the principles of social justice and environmental sustainability, while strengthening the sustainability of public debt.
i think we're going to put out a piece that's very important for the future and sustainability of the music industry itself.
take the climate policy.
but the eu comes with a green european industrial policy and carbon caps.
quality employment is the most reliable indicator of a good economic ecosystem that starts with those who create jobs because they invest and risk their wealth: entrepreneurs and self-employed.
mr president, parliament has already taken a decision on seabed mining: we took it in the report on the eu's 2030 biodiversity strategy, which called for a moratorium on the international seabed authority until the effects of seabed mining on the marine environment, biodiversity or climate had been sufficiently studied and investigated.
so how is it possible that this proposal, which 800 scientists oppose and the norwegian environment agency has given a negative opinion on the assessment they have adopted, has been approved?
how will the norwegian government control the environmental impact?
we must therefore take decisions, we must act and i believe that we must urgently and again promote what this parliament's report on the eu's 2030 biodiversity strategy said: promote an international moratorium on mining within the international maritime fund authority.
while we can introduce taxes on profits in energy, we don't touch retail.
i would like to thank all the honourable members who have worked on this report and the vast majority of those who have intervened in this debate, who also show that the vast majority of this parliament is very clear that we, as political operators, are extremely responsible for the public opinion ecosystem and that we can set good or bad examples for the rest of the citizenry on what it means to use ideological pluralism and our freedom of conscience.
the commission has already adopted a number of amendments to the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment, which is the subject of a proposal from the commission to the council.
geothermal energy has a vast potential, which has not yet been fully exploited.
however, we need to move forward with this climate emergency so that these systems have more support, more strength, and more research to get the full performance out of it.
in addition, we have taken some steps through the green pact, including the new renewable energy directive and the energy efficiency directive, where binding objectives are set for the first time.
in renewable energy, heating and cooling they can facilitate, support and support the deployment of geothermal energy.
but for this we need an appropriate framework that clearly and clearly maps geothermal resources, simplifies and accelerates administrative permits, as in the renewable energy directive, and helps to provide financial security for these projects.
madam president, commissioner, as rapporteur for the s&d group on this report on the gender aspects of rising living costs and the impact of the energy crisis, i would like to congratulate alice kuhnke first of all on her commitment and great work.
since then, we've had an energy crisis.
we have also suffered from the rising costs of inflation, which has led to the united nations saying that we are facing the worst cost of living crisis in a generation, which has greatly increased energy poverty.
we call for a just energy transition and a green transition.
we call for the guarantee of access to decent employment, decent housing, affordable energy and access to services such as health, education or care, which are essential to lift women and their children out of poverty.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
what was a relatively diverse media environment now entails only a few remaining media outlets that still have to endure harassment and threats.
in our resolution, we urge the authorities to stop the persecution, release detainees, including human rights lawyers, and ensure safe working environment for media workers.
the eu regrets to see that the media environment in tajikistan remains constrained by an obstructive regulatory environment, political interference and lack of diversity.
it also states that ceta fosters climate action, in complete disregard of the negative effects of the investment protection provisions on climate policy.
and finally, it’s a lie: the report claims that the review of the trade and sustainable development (tsd) chapter can only happen after full ratification.
the first item on the agenda concerns the commission's statement on: recent ecological disaster on plastic grain losses and its impact on marine and coastal habitats from microplastics (2024/2513(rsp)).
other regions have been struggling with the endemic pollution by plastic pellets due to poor handling at every stage of the supply chain, and such pollution may not have been always as visible as in major accidents, but it has nonetheless harmful impacts on soils and waters, on lives and livelihoods.
the primary focus is on prevention because once pellets enter the environment, they are difficult and costly to capture.
then comes the containment obligation to ensure that spill pellets do not leak to the environment.
and thirdly, if pellets pollute the environment, the clean-up must be ensured.
second, transport information to clearly identify those freight containers containing plastic pellets, and thirdly, safe storage to minimise the hazards to the marine environment.
the eu’s blue economy sectors including fisheries, aquaculture and coastal tourism are directly affected by plastic pellet pollution.
it is then that remediation solutions are necessary, so the commission will pursue the evaluation of the marine strategy framework directive, which already contains provisions to protect the marine environment against harm caused by litter.
the environmental liability directive, which offers limited protection in this regard, will also be subject to evaluation.
reducing microplastic pollution is also an objective of the eu mission ‘restore our ocean and waters’, which is developing and demonstrating innovative solutions to prevent, eliminate and monitor microplastics in our ocean and waters.
finally, i would like to point out the new international instrument on plastic pollution that is currently being negotiated.
let me stress the importance of including a legally binding provision to prevent release of plastics into the environment through the life cycle.
this entails the rapid adoption of the proposal on plastic pellets, and i am sure that we are all united in our determination to do all we can to avert such ecological disasters.
they are doing so because they want to protect their environment, their fishing, their shellfish industry and their livelihoods in the tourism sector.
this spillage has brought into focus the regulation on preventing microplastic pollution that’s currently being considered here in this parliament, a regulation that aims to see measures applied across the plastic industry chain to reduce pellet lost by up to 70%.
we must act to prevent such spillages, we must commit to containing spillages and to reducing their impact in the environment, and we must have a coordinated clean—up response to help and support those vulnerable communities who suffer and bear the brunt of these environmental spills.
the xunta has spent weeks denying the importance of pollution, caused by microplastics, which is a key priority for the commission and also for the socialist group, which leads this initiative in the chamber.
they are an environmental and potential health risk that must be combated, as the commission and the spanish government do.
plastic pollution must be tackled, and this problem that is now seen in galicia needs a strengthened european legislation, not concealment and lies as the popular party does.
the pollution of our sea with over a billion plastic pellets is a huge disaster for the environment, for marine animals and for local communities, but this disaster is not even 1% of the plastic pallets lost every single year.
socialists are playing the game of environmental disaster, even though beaches are national public domain.
they like to talk about the planet and climate change, but protecting the coastal heritage starts at the local, on the beach, on the rivers, especially in forest cleaning.
the same popular party that denies climate change and saw only a few plastic flakes in the prestige oil spill has said that pellets are not only not toxic, but they are edible.
the environmental emergency in galicia clearly indicates the need for ambitious european legislation to end the impunity of companies that refuse to take responsibility for waste and cleanliness and to require authorities to act immediately.
we certainly need to protect the environment and our fishing sector.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, plastic pellets are one of the main sources of microplastic pollution: they are scattered in the air, in the water and in the ground.
the commission's ambitious target of reducing plastic emissions by 70% is an oxygen leak for our marine and land ecosystems which are suffocating under the weight of pollution.
best practices for chain management, mandatory certifications, a harmonised methodology for monitoring and preventing microplastic pollution: these are the smart solutions that specifically set rules and tools for healthcare actors to use in the exclusive interest of health.
these are tragic images of millions and millions of pelicans polluting our environment, and i want to send a word of support and gratitude to our brothers in galicia, who have spent days and days trying to clean up their precious beaches.
the report, which i was able to prepare and present publicly to prevent microplastic pollution from pellets, aimed to improve the commission's proposal in three main areas.
we've all seen that once lost in the environment, these plastics are very difficult to collect.
all our efforts must therefore be directed to effective prevention measures that reduce or eliminate the loss of this material to the environment.
finally, i call on the commission to ensure that this ecological disaster does not die on the beach.
mr president, as a member of the galician parliament, i called for this debate in the face of the environmental catastrophe of the pellet tide which is flooding the coast of my country, galicia.
i take the opportunity to greet the mayor of muros, maría lago, who is on the podium, an example of dignity, along with the mayor of ribeira and the volunteers in the fight against this ecological tragedy.
galicia is a fishing nation with unique marine resources and biodiversity.
this plastic pollution affects the marine environment and can certainly affect the way of life of the fisheries and seafood sector, to which i transfer all the support from bng.
there is no ecological catastrophe, there is a problem that must be solved, but it is another problem.
the epp must decide whether it is on the side of the polluting industry or on the side of those who suffer the consequences of pollution.
the epp must decide whether it is on the side of the polluting industry or on the side of those who suffer the consequences of pollution.
the consequences also reached europe: rising inflation, energy and food prices.
there's no time to waste.
for the new genomic techniques, because we want to bring a new solution to farmers facing new challenges: reduce plant health products, pesticides, and adapt to climate change.
for example, to adapt more easily to the effects of climate change, which threaten farmers' yields and thus incomes, and to move more towards less dependence on plant health products and pesticides.
so you don't want to apply your own precautionary principle here and just give permits without checking for health or environmental concerns.
they can reduce the need for pesticides and other chemical treatments, which not only helps to reduce costs but also to reduce environmental impacts.
ultimately, the development of these new genomic techniques and the adaptation of european legislation to differentiate them from traditional gmos will not only result in immediate economic improvements for the farms incorporating them, but will also pave the way for more sustainable and efficient farming in the long term.
climate change is the cause of new diseases, new pests.
farmers and farmers have established a relationship with our environment and have created unique and diverse crops and food.
madam president, for some, the ecological transition in europe is a legislative goal: demands, restrictions and prohibitions on the productive sectors, which must be adapted on their own and at their own risk and by legal imperative.
on the contrary, we believe that the ecological transition is not imposed, but is encouraged and facilitated.
this type of progress will enable us to ensure the future and sustainability of the european agri-food sector against its international competitors.
secondly, i want to stress – ms bentele and mr liese have mentioned that – the tremendous importance of doing a lot of stuff here at home in europe, but also working tirelessly on the 93 % of emissions that do take place outside of our continent.
therefore, climate diplomacy, and in particular diplomacy related to carbon markets, is of essential importance.
i’m very much aligned with all those that say – and i’ve stressed it in the beginning myself – that we need to marry climate action with competitiveness, a level playing field and a just transition.
i will be the first to continue to stress that there is no alternative for driving down emissions.
written statements (rule 171)
the spanish socialist delegation welcomes the proposal from the european commission to reduce eu greenhouse gas emissions by 90% by 2040 from 1990 levels.
we spanish socialists believe that this new climate objective strengthens the eu's credibility in the fight against climate change, while reaffirming our commitment to the paris agreement and to the goal of being climate neutral by 2050. we believe that an ambitious goal for 2040 is not just an ambition, but a necessity.
the commission proposal is key to the climate policy for the coming years, and it is a clear signal to our economies, industries and societies that we need to accelerate our transition towards a low-carbon economy.
this is crucial not only to meet climate targets but also to ensure a more sustainable, healthy and resilient future for europe and the world.
the spanish socialist delegation welcomes the proposal from the european commission to reduce eu greenhouse gas emissions by 90% by 2040 from 1990 levels.
we spanish socialists believe that this new climate objective strengthens the eu's credibility in the fight against climate change, while reaffirming our commitment to the paris agreement and to the goal of being climate neutral by 2050. we believe that an ambitious goal for 2040 is not just an ambition, but a necessity.
the commission proposal is key to the climate policy for the coming years, and it is a clear signal to our economies, industries and societies that we need to accelerate our transition towards a low-carbon economy.
this is crucial not only to meet climate targets but also to ensure a more sustainable, healthy and resilient future for europe and the world.
i thank the commission for its proposal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 90% by 2040 compared to 1990 levels.
this career would ensure climate neutrality by 2050. a goal is hard, but it's possible to achieve.
the commission has now clearly taken a more balanced and technologically neutral approach to reducing emissions.
it is good that previously neglected technologies, such as nuclear power and carbon capture and storage solutions, are now listed for the first time as equal emission reduction tools alongside renewables.
in particular, the importance of biogas and biomethane in reducing transport emissions has also been taken into account.
as important as reducing emissions are, green transition laws have been introduced at eu level in recent years at a record pace and their overlapping and cross-cutting effects, administrative burden or economic efficiency have not always been properly assessed.
the next major task is to improve the course of the green transition and ensure that not only green development but also economic and social sustainability is ensured.
the next item on the agenda is the commission's declaration - the water and drought crisis in the eu as a consequence of the global climate crisis and the need for a sustainable and resilient strategy for europe [2024/2561(rsp) ].
it is a vital issue because five of the last six years in europe have been exceptionally dry, and this has caused significant economic damage to agriculture, energy and inland navigation worth some eur 9 billion every year, and the latest climate projections suggest that, in the extreme scenario of 3°c of warming, the resulting damage could cost up to eur 40 billion per year.
this is also a precondition for the union’s strategic autonomy and its green transition in relation to affordable energy, food security, industrial production and intergenerational fairness.
a lot has been done under this mandate to spur further action, improving water quality and water ecosystems, and in particular throughout the biodiversity strategy and the zero pollution action plan.
success will depend on tackling head on all the pressures faced by our vulnerable water resources, and that means tackling pollution at source, it means reducing the over-abstraction and over-allocation of water.
it means safeguarding minimum ecological flows in our rivers, allowing them to provide the ecosystem services that we rely on.
we also need to ensure that heavy water users, like the digital and energy sectors, internalise water efficiency and water protection.
this will incentivise water savings and pollution prevention measures while ensuring it remains affordable to all.
before looking for fresh supplies, we should start with water efficiency, mirroring the ‘efficiency first’ principle for energy, which now guides business decisions and investments.
adaptation is essential, but we must remain equally committed to climate mitigation.
you just had a debate, so today the commission launched the dialogue to establish an interim 2040 climate target, setting the eu firmly on a path towards climate neutrality by 2050. honourable members, let me conclude by highlighting once again the importance of sustainable, resilient water management and of protecting the quality and quantity of fresh water.
to prevent the water crisis from getting worse, it is essential that we continue to work to combat climate change, but also that we continue to invest in adaptation, which we invest in water infrastructure and transport.
water solidarity is an essential component of european solidarity, and the effects of climate change will make it even more necessary in the coming decades.
mr president, the objective of a sustainable water strategy should be to reduce water use, clean up water and improve the sustainability of water resources.
companies can adopt more sustainable production methods.
governments and international organisations can create policies and programmes to promote sustainable use and protection of water.
the eu alone cannot solve the world's problems, but it is our responsibility to ensure sustainable water use with our own input.
of course, water policy must also promote other measures, such as better adaptation of crops and agronomic practices to the climate.
the scarcity of water resources threatens not only agriculture but also the energy sector.
the effects of climate change are there and this emergency requires both a long-term view but also immediate action and european solidarity and support.
the water crisis is what has triggered their climate policies: zero investment in storage and sewerage, more demolition of dams and reservoirs.
in spain there is enough water to cover the needs of the spanish people, but we have two obstacles: the obscene spectacle of separatists who have not made an investment in water policies and now weep over drought and the climate fanaticism that criminalizes the farmers of murcia, almeria or huelva, blaming them for the ills of the planet.
75 percent of our territory is threatened with desertification and 44 percent of our aquifers are degraded by over-exploitation or pollution.
mr president, it is clear that droughts are, unfortunately, becoming more frequent because of climate change.
so, without a doubt, our first weapon, the highest priority for fighting droughts, is precisely to maintain, or even increase, all our efforts in the fight against climate change.
our geopolitical environment is very different than 2019 and naivety should disappear for good.
the authoritarian hand of russia had reached not only the pockets of europe, influencing energy prices for a long time, but also the worldview, by imposing fabricated narratives and acting from within.
the example topics that russia is working on and seeking to disintegrate by spreading disinformation are many - economics, migration, energy, social and family issues, history, regional conflicts like catalonia, north macedonia, bulgaria, serbia, kosovo, brexit and many, many others.
the lack of effective decommunization of the education system and the public environment in eastern europe makes russia's influence in these countries much easier.
through policies and measures that protect the rights of learners, we can ensure a fair and constructive environment for their professional development.
democracy is not merely about casting votes – it’s about fostering an environment where citizens can freely engage in civic matters without fear of prosecution.
the truth is that green colonialism is a real problem, because we often talk about the energy transition.
i really liked mr bullmann's proposal, which said that we could extend this cooperation to the parliamentary area, and that would certainly be a good and beneficial idea, since this cooperation is based not only on supporting infrastructure in the energy, digital and transport sectors, but also on exchanging experience and perhaps some good solutions, because together we can make this progress much better.
rather than aid dependence, investments are the best way to ensure sustainable economic development and to strengthen democratic governance.
this agenda reaffirms the commitment to a differentiating vision for european cooperation, based on the principle of equal partnerships, co-creation and focus on the objectives of sustainable development and human development.
it must help make the european union an indispensable actor in reducing inequalities and strengthening action for the environmental transition.
to be effective, it is clear that we must abandon the somewhat postcolonial approach that has often characterised our development policies, to achieve genuine partnerships built on a strategic and equal basis, with the guiding principle of common and mutual development at the heart of which are environmental sustainability, human rights and social and working conditions.
are we really supporting projects that are linked to a comprehensive strategy for sustainable development and that are supported by civil societies and peoples?
we have worked towards the sustainable development goals and to the just green and digital transitions, so critical.
it is great that the eu is investing in quality education, including digital education, with a lifelong learning perspective in mind and helping girls and women and people with disabilities to learn, but it is important to make sure that the school environment is appropriate for them.
it is a pleasure to see the eu supporting the population of developing countries in access to clean drinking water and wastewater treatment, thus providing a healthy environment for them.
when the european commission launched its second action plan for the completion of this union in 2019, optimism and energy for the implementation of the measures were the main players.
what no one expected was a russian invasion of ukraine that would escalate geopolitical tensions, weakening european competitiveness in key economic sectors such as energy.
also the team around you, we wouldn’t have got to this place without that energy and commitment, so thank you for that.
i know that others may not realise it, but this really matters because we need investment in our economy to make it more sustainable and to improve the lives of our citizens, and this is part of that.
mr president, our values are increasingly needed in a world marked by wars, pandemics and the impact of the climate crisis, which is suffering more those who have contributed less to warming.
but other programmes need to be strengthened, such as the union civil protection mechanism, which is essential to prevent the impact of this climate crisis, precisely, on those countries that cannot afford a satellite like copernicus.