because norway’s decision to advance seabed mining in the arctic is very destructive for the vulnerable arctic environment, even at the exploration phase.
the deep sea is the most extensive habitat on our planet, and it supports high biodiversity.
the sustainable solution is not to extract more virgin resources and cause more and more damage to nature and ecosystems.
the adverse effects on nature and the climate, particularly from deep-sea mining, are difficult to predict and impossible to control.
researchers warn that mining can have devastating effects on marine ecosystems and that carbon emissions cannot be predicted.
in a situation where science does not even know all the risks, it would be irresponsible to authorise such activities and therefore the european parliament must continue to demand a moratorium on deep sea drilling and also show norway that this is the right direction for a sustainable nature relationship.
– madam president, geothermal energy holds considerable untapped potential within the eu.
given its weather-independent, continuous, reliable and renewable nature, it can play a significant role in the decarbonisation of the energy sector, particularly in heating and cooling applications, and also including linking it with district heating, but also in strengthening the eu’s energy autonomy and encouraging the development of local energy communities.
this is one of the energy sources where local people can also play a big role in creating energy independence for europe.
nevertheless, it is also imperative to remember that any development in this domain should adhere to the highest environmental standards, take into account legitimate public concerns, and carefully consider the specific geological conditions of each member state.
the new report, voted tomorrow in parliament, aims to find solutions to these challenges and asks the commission to put forward a legislative proposal that can tap the untapped potential of geothermal energy.
the energy crisis that followed also affected women, as nursing is also a low-wage industry, and the fair and steep rise in energy prices was the hardest for low-income people.
this applies to all sectors of policy, including climate, because the social justice of the green deal, the green transition programme, has been undermined.
mr president, the 2040 climate target must follow scientific advice.
we have set this out in our own climate institutions and to do this we have set up a european climate panel to provide the best possible scientific advice on the basis of the whole of the union's climate policy.
the climate panel stated that the appropriate emission reduction target is 9095%.
the key to setting the 2040 target is how to calculate emissions reductions.
if all sectors do not participate in emission reductions, the eu will not achieve its climate objective.
agriculture has not achieved emissions reductions in 20 years, despite billions of dollars of climate finance earmarked for this.
no emissions reductions will be enough if the swallowing weakens, as it is now.
that is both for the reality of the climate crisis to address that, but also for the efficient decarbonisation of the european economy.
on agriculture and forestry, it’s also an economic possibility to invest in carbon farming and not just being quiet about those possibilities.