by imposing environmental standards off the ground, by lowering yields, by free trade agreements signed with the whole world, by ending traditional family farms, by increasing our imports, it is killing our agriculture.
mr president, since the debate on the ozone layer in the 1990s, the european union has asked professionals to phase out a whole bunch of fluoridated gases.
the degradation of the ozone layer has also been greatly reduced.
in addition, chlorine-free gases are particularly effective in a continent that is in dire need of energy security.
you are calling today for a total ban on these chlorine-free gases to achieve your permanent zero pollution utopia.
a logic that will benefit neither the environment nor the citizens.
without information, consumers cannot choose the most sustainable products.
and how can we make our single market more sustainable and build a true circular economy without clear commitments in terms of transparency and good information?
and so here we have a flagship of this european strategy for a more sustainable market, to get out of this consumer society, to get out of this waste that was the rule until now.
and then it was emphasized and it's very important, we managed to talk about the issue of advertising with the green claims, with this jungle, as you said, of labels that are there to mislead consumers and consumers, and make them consume products that are actually bad for their economic interest, bad for the environment, but that are presented as positive.
it is up to them to respond to our environmental needs and change the model.
these future directives do not deal directly with the same subject but have a common objective: to enable european citizens to be actors in the ecological transition and thus consume in an informed way while we know that the ecological emergency is ahead.
recyclability and sustainability are becoming information for consumers to make informed choices.
and it is obviously third country competitors who are taking advantage of this to replace european goods with goods produced at a discount, without any environmental standards.
we are all in favour of sustainable practices.
but sustainable peace cannot exist as long as hamas and other terrorist groups hijack the palestinian cause and threaten the existence of israel, the only democracy of the region.
meanwhile, hamas was devoting its energy and resources to its only project: the destruction of israel.
closer cooperation between the union and india, based on several priority areas such as climate, environment, energy, health, human rights, respect for human rights, digitalisation and transport, can make a positive contribution to prosperity, global stability, regional security and maintaining a shared vision of effective rule-based multilateralism.
i therefore particularly welcome this balanced report which highlights the opportunities for enhanced relations between india and the european union, without hiding the progress that must be made on climate and particularly human rights.
we have said this for some time already: this european budget is totally insufficient to meet the social and environmental challenges of the moment.
in the face of the growing peasant anger, with the protests in the netherlands, germany and france, as yesterday in avignon and toulouse, i say this with all seriousness, by becoming the voice of our campaigns, that the state of agricultural emergency must be declared: exemption from transmission tax, moratorium on free trade agreements, end of punitive ecology, price guarantee, priority in public order, normative sobriety for the survival, sustainability and renewal of our agriculture.
the fact is that we are, i believe, going in the wrong direction, by first wanting to transfer more and more powers to the european union, as an exclusive competence on the environment, by creating the possibility for the european commission to lift taxation by qualified majority, that is, without the agreement of all the member states.
access to clean and reliable energy is a driving force for development.
but in many developing countries, energy infrastructure remains insufficient.
the use of traditional and polluting energy sources has devastating consequences for health and the environment.
the european union is investing heavily in energy projects in africa, but we have focused on large infrastructure, often neglecting local needs.
we must end all funding for fossil fuel projects and give priority to renewable energy that is environmentally friendly to local communities and climate.
we must act now by working together, supporting innovation and financing sustainable projects.
we can guarantee that access to energy is no longer a luxury but a reality for all.
the energy future of developing countries is directly relevant to us.
investing in clean energy today is building a safer, more sustainable world for tomorrow.
the need for adequate skills is both for the digital and ecological transition.
over the last few years, the eu labour market has remained remarkably resilient in spite of the energy crisis, the pandemic, russia's brutal war of aggression in ukraine and the rising cost of living.
these challenges hinder fairness, sustainable growth, competitiveness and also innovation.
we have key initiatives in place for this, the green deal industrial plan that enhances the competitiveness of europe's net zero industry and is accelerating the transition to climate neutrality.
a recent study shows that if we boost investments – private and public – in clean tech, we will not only be able to achieve our goals in reducing co2 emissions, we also can – or will – create 2.4 million jobs.
by investing in education and skills development, without leaving anyone behind, in our fight against climate change and digital transformation.
we have the opportunity here to prevent environmental disasters in these deep and fragile ecosystems.
i am surprised by this decision of norway, which was also one of the first countries to sign the treaty on the conservation of biodiversity in the high seas and which has a great international influence on the conservation of the ocean.
the sea beds it intends to exploit are those of the arctic ocean, which plays a fundamental role in the climate balance and should therefore be declared a large marine protected area.
a time bomb for climate and marine biodiversity!
the ecological transition requires investments in the circular economy and recycling to reuse metals already mined.
the commission is following the consequences of norway’s decision very closely, and we are continuing our engagement with norway in order to ensure the protection of the ecosystem from harmful activities for a healthy ocean in line with the green deal.
in the spirit of the green alliance, the commission will keep an open line of communication with norway and will continue discussing and sharing our concerns in order to ensure the protection of the marine environment and the fragile arctic ecosystems.
then a full-scale war in europe for the first time in 80 years – and on top of this, the dramatic and increasing climate disasters in the form of droughts, wildfires and floods.
firstly, let me say that during my time in office, the vast majority of farmers i have met have shared a deep concern about the environment and expressed a willingness to play their part in its conservation.
currently, this concern is not focused on the common agricultural policy, but rather on legislative initiatives outside the cap – the pesticides regulation, the industrial emissions directive and the nature restoration law.
taking a wider perspective, after one year of implementation, i believe that we have achieved a good compromise in the common agricultural policy strategic plans, striking a balance between the productive function of agriculture and the tasks towards the environment and climate.
these are especially beneficial for active farmers, who receive payments for practices like carbon farming or animal welfare, for which they did not receive payments before.
in our agriculture, there are many well-educated people who know far more about agriculture than those who believe they need to override it with regulations and regulations, and who also understand that sustainability is important and who are also willing to implement appropriate measures.
we've seen too much bitterness in the last two years, for example, in the energy that flourishes when we become dependent on others.
they are essential in the fight against climate change, but not against farmers.
agriculture is, of course, the subject of food, but it is also the subject of climate, biodiversity and health.
it is therefore urgent to stop opposing ecology and economics and to make an objective observation that what threatens agriculture, food sovereignty, peasant income, generation renewal, but also climate, biodiversity and health, is this productivist model requiring the massive use of pesticides and synthetic fertilizers, not the guidelines referring to agroecology.
nevertheless, more concrete steps are needed to improve the working environment of journalists, including in relation to abusive lawsuits against journalists and their safety.
the greek government is fostering an increasingly restrictive legislative environment, which surveils and criminalises civil society, refugees and journalists.
there has been no justice for the murder of greek reporter giorgos karaivaz, cases of harassment and intimidation against journalists in greece are well documented, and there is a climate of fear in which journalists, independent bodies and civil society operate.
the development of surface geothermal energy would be very simple in our territories.
it has the great advantage of being a national energy source without the need to import technology from asia.
it also ensures a stable, safe, continuous, clean and inexhaustible local energy supply.
the members of the national assembly are constantly warning of the need to lift sanctions on gas and oil imports, which have a dramatic impact on europeans' purchasing power, and of the urgency to free ourselves from the absurd rules of the european energy market which affect the french electricity and gas bills.
although the laudable aim of this text is to reduce the consequences of the cost of living and the energy crisis for women, i regret that the proposed solutions do not address the profound consequences of these crises, that they are mirrored in a woke ideology and that they interfere with the policies of the member states.
mr president, mr commissioner, colleagues, a large part of the population in the european union is living on the poverty line, especially because of the inflation rate in recent years and the sharp rise in energy and minimum consumer prices.
families, children, single people, mostly women, and our pensioners often cannot meet even the most basic needs and face severe energy shortages.
each member state must develop and have measures to address energy poverty, in particular in assessing the poverty of women and children, and a directive on the implementation of minimum income and the real child guarantee is necessary at european union level, with a separate budget and the necessary funding.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the gender aspects of the rising cost of living and the energy crisis.
no, europe did not cause the energy crisis, there are others who caused it.
i remember very well that one of our first reactions was to recommend that member states support families, support the most vulnerable and vulnerable by means of aid, in particular to avoid, or at least to avoid, this energy problem wherever possible.
we have launched a major project on ipa which is specifically aimed at diversifying and, above all, accelerating investment in renewable energy, which should help to reduce energy prices and, above all, make europe less dependent.
this injustice is also evident during the energy crisis caused by russian aggression in ukraine.
energy poverty is significantly more common in single-parent families, with 80 percent of them women.
so we, the meps, are officially asking the european commission this week to pass a €100 billion package to help single parents pay bills and take additional measures to protect the elderly, our retirees, from energy poverty.
they are bringing together all relevant stakeholders in each industrial ecosystem.
investing in skills is a powerful weapon to tackle the digital and energy transition, and so there are three points that are essential.
first, investment in lifelong learning in our workers is essential to ensure social justice and improved employment opportunities at a time of ecological and digital transition.
environmental challenges and ensuring our independence are issues we must face.
this is not a new phenomenon, as 230 000 tonnes of microbes end up in the environment each year, and europe alone accounts for two thirds of this pollution.
to act for reindustrialisation means to act not only for european citizens and their purchasing power, but also for the environment and sovereignty.
i am not questioning the common fisheries policy the legislative framework essential for our european fishermen but fishermen have seen the sea and the maritime world evolve: climate change, pollution, invasive species, the emergence of activities such as marine energy, increased foreign competition, etc.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me just say once again that fisheries and aquaculture activities must be environmentally sustainable in the long term, but must also be managed in a way that is consistent with the objectives of economic and social benefits, and it is clear that this tripartite sustainability must always be based on the best available scientific knowledge and on assessments of the impact of decisions taken.
the common fisheries policy must be a balanced policy capable of monitoring the long-term management of fisheries and aquaculture activities in an effective, transparent and fair manner, helping them to position themselves in an economy which is increasingly driven by circularity, digitalisation and the energy transition, but which is also increasingly competitive at world level.
fisheries ecosystem management is still in its infancy.
article 17 of the cfp, which requires the member states to allocate fishing quotas using social and environmental criteria and which is to protect artisanal fishermen, is not applied by the member states.
the urgent need to restore marine ecosystems which are constantly deteriorating from pollution, climate change and human activities at sea, particularly fishing.
we should, together with fishermen, of course, engage fisheries in a real change: an ecological fishery like an agroecology.
in the face of biodiversity decline and climate change, ostriches should not be bred.
in fact, it is fishermen who know what is happening in these areas, who know what is happening, who are discussing with scientists and also with agencies of the french office for biodiversity, whom i would like to pay tribute to, and particularly the work of which i would like to pay tribute, who have a precise knowledge of these areas, because they have been made marine protected areas, the nature of the fisheries, and who are working together to ensure that certain fishing activities are limited, suppressed, reduced, possibly banned.
we are not going to be able to do anything about the environment and the protection of the oceans.
the fisheries sector demands that the offerings, masked by misleading presentations, attempt to attribute to themselves dietary, organoleptic and sustainability qualities which they lack, conditions which only seafood provides to the diet.
the new european union food strategy, which i insist must more clearly incorporate seafood in its title and content, must take advantage of these improvements so as not to add new sustainability requirements to the high standards set by all community legislation.
here we will work in 2024 towards a methodology to score some sustainability aspects for fisheries and aquaculture products.
unfortunately, marketing standards are not covered by these organisations, but conservation and other control measures are in place to ensure sustainable fisheries.
this regulation represents an excellent opportunity for europe, but in particular for portugal, to strengthen the fisheries sector, while also promoting aquaculture in both ways: sustainability, justice and efficiency, by strengthening the necessary support and respecting the specificities of the outermost regions.
as co-legislators, i conclude, we have a responsibility to continue to work to improve this regulation, adopting and ensuring a more sustainable future for fisheries and aquaculture, and protecting our marine resources by supporting and counting on our communities.
whether you like it or not, europe is growing in power, and it is not about to stop, because we will not weaken our support for ukraine, our climate and the future of our farmers.
they have eur 40 billion of their own revenue, which comes from the market for emission allowances and the internal market of the border carbon adjustment mechanism.
because of conventional breeding, our farmers have the most productive varieties, but they know that we need new varieties and we need them quickly, otherwise we will not be able to cope with the impacts of climate change and competition.
farmers are concerned about the introduction of these genetically modified products, the scientific community points to a lack of backwardness towards new genomic techniques and the health and environmental consequences, and the bio-sector is alarmed by the contamination of their plots by these seeds, endangering the whole sector.
what we want is an alternative, sustainable and just agricultural model that will allow for real food sovereignty, away from the control of agrochemistry.
madam president, i am one of the many people who spoke before me who do not support this proposal in its current form, because whether we call it ngt or gmo, it is still plant genetic modification and for me it is not a natural process and we still do not have enough information about the consequences and consequences that all this can have not only for the human organism but also for the environment.
we need to know what the consequences are for the human body, for the environment, for pollinators.
we need to know what the consequences of this can be for example for organic farming, which is of course very specific, but i think, as mrs toth said, i think that member states should decide what they want to grow on their territory and whether they will agree to allow such breeding techniques to be used in seeds in their environment or in their country.
i was here a few years ago as rapporteur for the farm-to-fork strategy, and the farm-to-fork strategy has been agreed and that is also part of the green deal that new breeding methods can contribute to a more sustainable agriculture in the european union.
or we need to find a reasonable way, and i think the work that has been done in the environment committee and also in our agriculture committee is a good work and that we have a good basis for voting here tomorrow because i really believe that these plants can contribute to less plant protection in agriculture.
these new technologies threaten them because of the potential pollution that these new varieties of gmos can offer.
these new genomic techniques are innovative tools that will enable improved plant varieties to be developed more effectively that can be climate resilient and pest-resistant, which will require less fertilisers and pesticides and/or ensure higher yields.
with these production techniques, farmers will benefit from greater availability of vegetables adapted to the needs of the sector in terms of climate resilience.
i agree with the prudent and conservative commission proposal and with most of the proposals of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, except amendment no 84, on which i call on you to vote against.
so innovation for sustainability available to our european farmers is what we all need, and i want it.
as the earth trembles under the wrath of farmers, as we are constantly confronted with food sovereignty alerts in the event of climate accidents here on the planet, or geopolitical accidents elsewhere on the planet, rather than going back to basics, to tackle the causes of what threatens food sovereignty and farmers' incomes, we are adding an additional layer of leakage forward.
finally, we are creating new dependencies on seedlings through these new gmos, while farmers and farmers have the solution through eco-types, which respond to these issues of climate change and food sovereignty, because productivity is the same.
they are not concerned, they even advocate a net reduction of 90% of our greenhouse gases by 2040. ten countries, including france, have followed denmark's example in achieving this goal.
stop pretending that by acting alone for the rest of the world, the european union will have some influence on the climate.
the european countries have already achieved far more virtuous carbon balances than the rest of the world thanks to the sacrifices of our people.
all catchment areas have had to be closed, not because of water shortages, but because of severe pollution, which makes water no longer available to european citizens.
they can no longer take on the climate risks while applying the painful european constraints.
the security environment in europe has changed significantly in recent years, first and foremost with russia's war aggression against ukraine and its hostile stance towards the european union and partners which translates into hostile rhetoric, hybrid actions that aim to manipulate and interfere.
spain has lost 18 500 farmers and ranchers in the last seven years: 2 600 rural self-employed people close their facilities every year because of excessive environmental regulation, thus compromising our food sovereignty.
how can this institution be more just and sustainable?
so i say, if we really want fair trade and cooperation and a functioning, manageable global trading system in the pressing times of climate change, it's time to dismantle the structures and mechanisms that no longer work.
i therefore hope that the wto's parliamentary dimension will make it clear that the wto can no longer hide that trade rules are linked to labour rights, inequality, climate and environmental issues.
in this regard, i would like to reiterate the need to protect and defend the sustainable subsidies granted to european union operators under union legislation and, in particular, the sustainable fisheries partnership agreements between the european union and the acp countries.
and we must not forget that if the eu fleet leaves these waters, they will be replaced by other fleets that have no regard for social or environmental sustainability.
it is also developing a key role for the sustainability of the seas through the fisheries subsidy agreement.
we must promote sustainable trade that integrates the gender dimension and development of all countries, and especially the most vulnerable, by completing the doha agenda.
2) a second fundamental reform is, of course, the link between climate and trade: not just a few words and a fine statement here and there, but a fundamental reform of the world trade organization system to make sure we really put climate on the agenda.
europe must arrive in abu dhabi with another proposal for world trade regulation, based not on competition but on solidarity and respect for human rights and environmental law.
more than ever, we must invest in the education of our young people, build with them the european citizenship of tomorrow and strengthen their sense of belonging to ensure the development and sustainability of our european project.
i am very concerned about the commission's proposal to amend the directive on the protection of the environment and the environment.