we are once again demonstrating the eu’s commitment to further reduce emissions into the atmosphere by completely phasing out hfcs by 2050. in that way, we are contributing to our efforts towards limiting the global temperature increase.
with this agreement, we are also putting into practice the repowereu goals for an energy-efficient and independent eu that leads the world in the clean energy transition.
and we also do it by making sure that we have enough trained and certified personnel who carry out activities involving fluorinated greenhouse gases.
and thank you to my colleague jessica for the good work on the ozone-depleting substances file.
in a rapidly evolving environment, this strategic partnership concerns not only trade and geopolitics but also the future of the world's two largest democracies in the coming decades.
at the same time, we are strengthening our presence with the 2023 memorandum of cooperation for an economic route for the transport of energy and data products, by sea and rail, from india to the middle east and europe.
this is a very wrong decision, since the whole world has agreed to a moratorium until the scientific community recognizes what is in the deep waters, and we have reached the historic agreement to protect biodiversity in international waters, in waters beyond jurisdiction, this is a wrong decision that our colleagues in norway should reconsider.
mrs president, millions of households across europe are struggling to cope with the constant rise in living costs and energy prices.
access to energy should be considered a right.
ensure affordable public benefit services and food for low-income households and, finally, strengthen access programmes to affordable and energy-efficient housing and ensure equal access to health and care services.
you pushed forward the ocean agreement at the biodiversity cop15 kunming-montreal.
i think it is time to be serious about our zero pollution commitment on the green deal, talk about the next mandate and realise that we must stop the plastic addiction.
the un sustainable development goals, which include the eradication of hunger, to ensure food security by 2030 are likely to be extended to 2050 as this goal is missed.
the practice of sustainable fishing is essential if we are to meet the future food needs of the planet and we must therefore take all possible steps to ensure the energy transition of the european union's fisheries and aquaculture sector, fully applying the ecosystem-based approach.
the common fisheries policy therefore needs to be reformed and adapted more than ever, as the common agricultural policy should be, and finally be fully in line with the social and environmental requirements of our time.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the common fisheries policy aims to support fishing communities, sustain fishing stocks, protect the environment and ensure fair distribution of opportunities across the eu.
it’s a common fisheries policy for countries outside the eu and not for some countries within the eu, and we need to ensure that it’s much more sustainable, and we have to make sure that the opportunities that are there are for european fishermen in particular.
mr president, i welcome the guidance of this report, which underlines the contribution of the cfp and advocates improving its socioeconomic and environmental content.
regions such as the azores and madeira in portugal are struggling to combat the obsolescence of their fishing fleets, which not only jeopardize their livelihoods but, as you know, have a negative impact on the environment.
at union level, we have done our duty with the climate law which the independent scientific committee wisely provided for, calling us today to set a target of reducing emissions by at least 90% by 2040 compared with 1990. some member states, including greece, have not appointed independent scientific committees.
but without a passion for science, we cannot achieve our climate goals, have policies for a just social transition, or seize economic opportunity.
let us courageously embrace the challenge we face to open up a sustainable future for future generations.