they need all the energy they can get, both renewable and non-renewable, and they don't intend to slow down their development and improve the lives of their 1.4 billion people.
the opening of negotiations with ukraine and moldova, together with favourable conclusions on bosnia and herzegovina, represents a historic moment at a time when the geopolitical environment is becoming increasingly dangerous and unpredictable.
the european union is moving towards a green and digital environment, and the way we work and the knowledge we need from our citizens are changing.
the galician people are once again the victims of an environmental disaster.
the pollution of our marine ecosystems by microplastics cannot go unpunished, neither in galicia nor anywhere else on the planet.
the environmental impacts are huge and will continue to spread.
we need therefore ambitious measures to prevent contamination and pollution by microplastics and to prevent these situations from continuing.
and i am grateful for the clarity of the spanish right-wing deputies, not only for confirming environmental denialism, but for the total contempt for the people who are suffering.
mr. speaker, plastic pellets and their impact on plastic pollution are significant.
every environmental disaster is a huge loss of life on land, and so is this one in galicia, however, 80 percent of the waste in the sea comes from land, not from sea-related activities.
it is therefore necessary for each state to build its own and adapted waste management system with the best available technology and the highest possible recycling.
in some waste types, it may be wise to combine two or more countries because they have no quantity to make the treatment more efficient.
in croatia, waste management is very bad.
all the waste management centers that were built are bad.
they're destroying the environment, health and local budgets, and the ones that are being built will be the same.
i blame domestic organized crime that the authorities in zagreb, say, are unable to stop, and in the scandal with minister filipović it was revealed who really is harming the environmental protection fund and the money that is there.
croats must gather political forces and stop it or they will live in a land of environmental disasters.
we cannot expect fishermen to reduce their fishing effort or invest money to switch to sustainable fishing gear while payments for temporary cessation of fishing activities are delayed for several years.
we are aware of the importance of sustainable fisheries to our economy, but we must remember the main socioeconomic goal of the common fisheries policy, which is a decent standard of living.
the socio-economic aspects and food security should be an integral part of the cfp, but a balance between environmental, economic and social objectives needs to be maintained in order to ensure the sustainability of fishing communities.
the resolution rightly highlights the new causes of these gender inequalities several times, and mentions the war in ukraine, the resulting energy crisis, the resulting inflation crisis, and calls on president von der leyen to remain true to her commitment to promoting gender equality in all her policies.
the report also highlights the importance of the role of the european union in the development of geothermal energy.
however, in a corrupt environment and society, such as, unfortunately, croatia, led by hdz, capital projects cannot go without plunge and corruption so we already have a situation that croatia's first thermal power plant, the big 1, is already plunging into a plunge.
the environment is no matter what, it is a pretext to add more and more standards and taxes that overwhelm our businesses and our producers.
their protests remind us of the importance of a just transition to sustainability that leaves no one behind.
and we all want a more sustainable and ecological future.
we need to expand our production capacity in the defense industry, to increase the resilience of our energy infrastructure.
it's a waste of money if there's no one to hold a gun.
we want everyone to have access to healthy, safe and sustainable food.
it leaves out all the carefully laid down rules to ensure healthy, safe and sustainable food.
it is putting pressure on freedom of choice and it is the death knell for the sustainable agricultural sector.
the commission has already adopted a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of animals and the environment.
especially as climate change becomes more and more tangible, this is an absolute must.
i am therefore pleased with the new proposal from the european commission, because it is an important piece of the puzzle for more sustainable agriculture.
obligating all member states to use genetically modified plants in agriculture is simply a crime with unknown consequences for human health and the environment.
it is good to reduce emissions by at least 90%.
for the high ambitions that drive us to do everything in our power to become climate neutral by 2050. and of course it is absolutely essential that these objectives are implemented in the member states.
implementation is essential if we are to build on renewable energy and achieve energy efficiency.
this could be a new positive narrative for citizens, governments and businesses across europe, so that we can have a common interest in getting legislation implemented so that we can live up to our climate goals.
that's good news for our health, for our environment and for our planet.
because we're only going to get there with a fair climate policy that supports vulnerable families.
europe must therefore invest more resources in insulating our homes and making full use of affordable green energy from us.
we must now invest in sustainability of our economy and our agriculture, because it is five for twelve.
now we need to do what science demands and not push the pause button like the climate wizards.
we stand for a fair and ambitious climate policy that everyone can take with them.
because addressing the climate crisis is addressing inequality.
mr president, since you accuse us of being unreasonable, what are the measures to be taken to tackle climate change and the risk posed by the new generations?
mr president, commissioner, today we welcome from the european parliament this positive announcement by the european commission that we will reduce our emissions in europe by 90% by 2040. a message that strengthens our global credibility as leaders in climate action and reaffirms our commitment to the paris agreement and climate neutrality by 2050. it is important that now the negative voices are also being multiplied, even in this parliament.
i would say that there are three fundamental reasons beyond climate for pursuing such a goal: because this will accelerate the reduction of our fossil fuels and we have learned from the invasion of ukraine that it is something toxic to the environment but also to geopolitics; because it will undoubtedly improve public health and the health of our citizens; because it will be good for innovation, technology and the competitiveness of our companies, sending a clear message, a predictable roadmap that will not only push innovation and efforts today but also the competitiveness of tomorrow to have a europe that is also a leader in the economy.
it is high time we distinguished between climate change and climate policy.
but the current climate policy is a complete hoax.
if you really want to do something about climate change, we're going to start building nuclear power plants, we're going to start focusing on market-based innovation and climate adaptation, and we're going to stop those arbitrary net-benefit targets that lead us to a central, debt-based, flat-rate economy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the midst of a farmer's revolt, the european commission has set itself the objective of reducing the union's greenhouse gas emissions by 90% by 2040. however, this new project is of concern to agriculture because it emphasizes the supposed lack of progress on the part of farmers.
the commission must achieve its climate objectives by other means than sacrificing european agriculture.
there's always talk of a zero carbon footprint.
zero co2 emissions in translation means the disappearance of humanity, the disappearance of all plants, the disappearance of animals and the disappearance of fish.
we have more than enough scientific evidence that climate change is the result of climate change and will tend to intensify in the future, especially in the countries of southern europe, particularly portugal.