the committee on the environment, public health and food safety is hereby authorised to deliver an opinion.
as rapporteur for the european parliament's environment committee, i am pleased that during the interinstitutional negotiations i have included a number of proposals in the final text which will effectively prohibit misleading green painting.
i think it's very important to avoid the bad practice of double quality and the use of unprovable and overly general claims and labels like eco, bio-based or climate-friendly.
overall, we can say that today more and more companies and brands are actually committed to sustainability, so the role of greening is being evaluated.
peru provided me with an environment in which i could evolve from a hidden refugee child to an adolescent with hopes and dreams for the future.
farmers are key players, key players for our food security and sovereignty, key players also for climate change.
farmers are the first in line to feel the effects of climate change.
farmers are feeling the impact of the russian war – inflation, the rising cost of energy and the rising cost of fertilisers.
i know that they are worried about the future of agriculture and about their future as farmers, but they also know that agriculture needs to move to a more sustainable model of production so that their farms remain profitable in the years to come.
we have invited a broad scope of representatives of the farming sectors, the young farmers, the rural communities, the seed and fertiliser industry, the food sector, the processing sector, but also the financial sector, the cooperative banking sector, the consumers and environmental groups, and, of course, science.
only if our farmers can live off their land will they invest in the future, and only if we achieve our climate and environmental goals together will farmers be able to continue to make a living.
the commission proposed the sustainable use regulation (sur), which has the worthy aim of reducing the risks of chemical plant protection products.
this has the advantage of ukraine being able to rely on stable and sustainable financial support.
in addition to the continuing high prices of energy and the increasing cost of food, fear and concern about the further escalation and spread of this war have entered european everyday life.
the policy pursued by the german federal government is the bullet that it wants to impose in europe as a whole, and it is a dangerous one because it deprives us of our ability to tackle social inequality, economic inequality and climate change.
so let's forge a european pact that will enable us to ensure full employment, fight social inequality and tackle climate change.
it is important to note that genetically modified crops have not been shown to be better than traditionally bred varieties in the area of climate change or food safety.
a climate policy of the union is needed that recognises that agriculture is a key sector of the european economy.
so i suggest that if we have reached an agreement on a european minimum wage, if we have reached an agreement on a global minimum wage, if we have moved towards an energy union, and i could even list the foundations of a health union, then we should start talking about a european minimum wage so that every european child, including hungarian children, has the opportunity to live a happy and successful life.
the recently introduced 32.2% rate, but in reality a lower wage increase, although a significant advance, is not sufficient to meet the vision of a sustainable teaching profession.
when we seek eu support for education reform, it is essential to create an environment that promotes teaching and learning, ensures an equal distribution of resources and promotes dialogue that involves all stakeholders in the development of a future-oriented education system.