reducing gas emissions has to be a key priority if we're going to save the planet.
everybody knows these things are going on, so you can talk about your environmental commitments all you like, but the truth will out and your credibility is on the line by failing to investigate this.
mr president, fluorinated gases are supercharged greenhouse gases.
their impact on the climate is often thousands of times more powerful than that of co2.
f-gas emissions have increased by 60% since 1990, and it's well past time that we seriously tackle their use.
heat pumps are essential for europe's energy transition.
as several academic studies over the past two years have pointed out, the rising energy and food prices that have led to inflation as we know it is not only the result of russian aggression in ukraine but also of excessive speculation and market manipulation by investors who are not concerned about the real impacts on the daily lives of citizens of the european union.
abnormal energy bills, households unable to meet certain monthly payments and having to restrict themselves to live properly or, i would even say, just survive.
the commission has already made a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of the environment.
thus, in the event of rising prices of raw materials and energy on financial markets, market authorities will now have the full capacity to suspend transactions on these markets, thus avoiding sudden exponential inflation on basic necessities.
this certainly includes improving working conditions for workers in all respects in financial terms, but also in structural terms, including childcare, care and the environment as a whole.
mr president, the eu public procurement directives allow contracting authorities to promote social inclusion, the protection of the environment, and look to ensure the compliance of tender awards with social, labour and environmental legislation.
the company is facing financial problems caused by the implementation of the absurd green deal, expensive energy and a competitive battle stemming from the stale sale of the commission-sanctioned liberty ostrava housing, which brought its direct competitors into the hands of its main and sole energy supplier.
when gfg bought the ostrava mill from arcelormittal years ago, a number of experts warned that taking out a single energy supplier, tameh, and leaving it in the hands of the original owner was a very bad idea that would jeopardize the future of the czech mill.
a bewildering jungle of labels and dubious environmental claims, products designed to have a limited lifespan, or a lack of information about the repairability of products have meant that consumers have found it difficult to make greener choices and contribute meaningfully to the green transition.
with this directive, we empower europeans to choose products that are more durable, repairable and sustainable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, consumers care about the environment and in many cases they make their purchases based on labels that say they are eco-friendly, sustainable, recyclable, but are they really?
and thirdly, start to eradicate the false green labels as sustainable, biodegradable and lay the groundwork for the legislation we are working on right now: the green claims directive.
we will empower our citizens and help businesses reduce their environmental impact while fighting ecoblanching.
as consumers, our choices, from small everyday decisions to large investments, have a huge impact on the environment.
they need to know where they come from, how they're made, and what their environmental footprint is.
this is a clear signal that consumers, not only are looking for sustainable options, but are willing to support the green transition with their bills.
as the effects of climate change become more real and deadly, consumers are demanding to make empowered choices.
green products, sustainable practices and ethical sourcing are what a new generation of consumers want, and yet we actually make it more difficult for consumers to make these types of informed choices.
for too long, manufacturers have been able to claim that their product is sustainable or ethically sourced without requiring proof.
generic environmental labels such as ‘biodegradable’, ‘eco-friendly’ and ‘climate neutral’ will be prohibited.
to achieve a truly sustainable economy, we must empower consumers.
mr president, climate neutrality claims based on offsetting are a massive contributor to climate mitigation deterrence.
climate claims for products based on carbon offsetting will now, based on parliament’s work, be added to the list of unfair commercial practices.
these changes are also currently impacting the ongoing negotiations for the green claims directive and the carbon removal certification framework.
we need to build on this and take the next logical step, which is to contest ‘climate neutrality’ and ‘net zero’ as climate concepts and as the basis for eu climate policy.
establishing a separate eu carbon removal target is key to this.
mr president, you can’t really go into a shop nowadays without everything you see being marketed as ‘climate neutral’.
we even have airlines selling ‘carbon-neutral’ flights.
this has made a joke of the whole idea of conscious consumption and has lead shoppers into believing that they’re being codded, and they are, because generic environmental claims are inherently misleading, because they aren’t based on any standardised environmental performance.
so with this new legislation – and really thanks to the efforts of the parliament – companies can no longer claim that their products are ‘climate neutral’, ‘eco-friendly’ or ‘green’.
carbon offsetting and calling them ‘carbon-neutral’ flights will also be outlawed.
i also want to thank those who have made human rights, climate protection, consumer protection a profession, some of them an appeal.
we have the curious situation today that ngos can rely on secrecy in research and environmental programmes when they deliver results because there are specifications in the programmes because they are funded by the same programmes as the research institutions.
i consider this unfair, because these organizations are many times more effective in helping people and this is especially a waste of their potential.
there are also lots of great ngos who do amazing work, like irish wildlife trust, birdwatch ireland, carbon market watch.
while too many people are dying every day, you can't waste any more time, you need an immediate ceasefire!
the report calls for shared action and leadership in the global arena on many issues such as climate, the environment, transport, energy, digitalisation, health.
to reach our 2050 climate neutrality goals it is estimated that we will have to spend an additional eur 360 billion per annum.
meanwhile, the commission warned this week that, whilst energy prices are stabilising, they will not return to pre-pandemic levels in the foreseeable future.
but let me reiterate something i’ve said in this chamber many times before this debate: our policies are needed to ensure these quality jobs are more accessible and sustainable for women, and i welcome the commissioner’s words on gender balance – because for women and mothers in the workforce, it’s simply not good enough.
mr president, norway’s decision to allow the seabed mining in the arctic is very destructive for the vulnerable arctic environment, even at the exploration state.
the deep sea is the most extensive habitat on our planet and it supports high biodiversity.
scientists believe that as many as 10 million species inhabit the deep sea, an ecosystem that may be as rich as the tropical rainforest.
the deep sea is also critical for other environmental services, such as long-term carbon sequestration.
we are not even able to establish really high environmental standards on land.
the seabed is also a giant carbon sink, nestled in biodiversity.
the ocean sequesters 38 percent of the greenhouse gases emitted into the atmosphere each year and absorbs 93 percent of the excess heat caused by human activities.
the exploitation of these funds would lead to the release of co2 that has been sequestered for millions of years, turning the ocean into a real climate bomb.
mr president, norway has somehow been successful in promoting itself as a global leader of sustainability, despite a quarter of its economic activity being generated by the export of fossil fuels.
but they can’t start a global deep-sea mining race in the name of sustainability.
deep-sea mining would wreak havoc, with corporations dredging, digging and scraping the ocean floor, creating sediment plumes and dumping waste material, all away from the controlling eyes of the public.
it would interfere with the ocean’s ability to capture carbon and would kill off species we haven’t even discovered yet.
we have to stop a new environmental catastrophe before it begins, or norway’s name will go down in history as being the country that kicked off the destruction of the deep sea.
and to make matters worse, they’re claiming they can do this environmentally destructive activity in a sustainable way.
i’m glad that this debate is taking place on the issue of fair incomes for farmers, but we do need to do an awful lot more to ensure that we have vibrancy, that we have sustainability, that we have intergenerational transfer of family farms.
we only have to look at the age profile to show that it is not an attractive profession at the present moment, and we have a lot of work to do to ensure sustainability in agriculture and fair prices for farmers for their work and their effort.
an awful lot of good things are happening in farming to reduce emissions, but they’re not getting credit for it.
at a time when we are already talking about starting to think about the direction of public policies after 2027, it is important to remember that the future of agriculture is already being decided today by the support given to farmers for the development of environmentally, but also socially and economically sustainable agriculture.
geothermal energy can make a significant contribution to the heating and cooling of certain areas, agriculture, aquaculture and, of course, energy security in european countries.
and while on the one hand the european union is pushing the wind farms hard, which negatively affect our animal and plant world and reward our nature, on the other hand, geothermal energy has no such negative effects.
one of the useful vehicles for this, as a way to identify and share best practices, formulate recommendations, and support good implementation, is our ongoing work with member states on the revision of national energy and climate plans.
thank you for your consensus and for your important support for this evolution in the energy sector.
i'm glad that this debate has taken place, that it has taken place, because one of the problems with geothermal energy is its low visibility compared to other renewable energy sectors, and the very idea of geothermal projects is sometimes overlooked.
in the opinion of the circulating geothermal authorities, these are sanatorium facilities in iceland, italy, not a heating network in denmark or a greenhouse heating system in poland.
we need an education campaign and a promotion of geothermal energy.
i'm glad that this report and this debate is part of this promotion of the idea of geothermal energy.
indeed, this report comes at a time when geopolitical tensions and persistent inflation have led to increased costs of living and amplified the challenges faced by citizens to access basic goods such as food, housing and, particularly, energy.
and your report calls for taking this gender aspect into account while addressing the cost-of-living crisis and especially the energy crisis.
indeed, women and men experience energy poverty in different ways and are unequally affected by energy poverty due to the gendered indicators such as income differences, housing conditions, care for dependent family members, and age.
these are the main structural causes you also mentioned of women’s higher risk of energy poverty, underlining the importance of the directive on pay transparency.
energy and transport poverty are indeed a particular concern for women, and especially for groups of vulnerable women, which i have already mentioned – single mothers or elderly women.
in line with the european pillar of social rights, particularly its principle 20 regarding access to essential services, as well as in line with the gender equality strategy, we are strongly committed to support equal access to energy.
the obligation to report on energy poverty was unfortunately only partly addressed by member states in their updated national energy and climate plans.
let me take this opportunity to call on the member states to set a clear definition of energy poverty, carry out an assessment of the number of vulnerable households, taking into account gender aspects, and outline structural policies to address these issues when submitting their final updated plans in june 2024. structural policies will be key to ensure that the exceptional action taken by member states to deal with the recent energy price spikes – such as emergency income support, tax reductions and temporary price caps – can have lasting effects.
in addition, the renovation wave should improve overall living standards for europeans next to its goals of reducing emissions and create more green jobs in the construction sector.
for example, only 10% employees in the construction sector are women, and whereas their participation in the renewable energy sector is higher than in the overall energy sector, it still only reaches 32%.
furthermore, the council recommendation on ensuring a fair transition towards climate neutrality outlines comprehensive policy packages with the aim of not leaving – as you mentioned – anyone behind.
finally, your report highlights that the clean energy transition is key to reducing energy poverty and that women can be powerful agents of change in this transition.
we can only agree the energy transition absolutely has to rely on women’s active participation, and on the recognition of their role and contribution.
in this context, i would also like to highlight the energy communities: these initiatives, which are often rooted in the social economy, provide an important entry point for citizens, and notably women, to engage locally and concretely with the clean energy transition and promote a socially fair transition in communities.
and we all know that developing renewables should reduce overall energy prices and therefore also decrease energy poverty.
to conclude, eu funding provides strong support to address the rising cost of living and the impact of the energy crisis, starting from the nextgenerationeu to more targeted instruments like the european social fund plus.
our ambition is thus not only to leave no woman behind in the energy transition, but also to ensure that women are equipped to actively participate and shape the fair transition we are working for.
and this is also the best way: reducing poverty to reduce energy poverty.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the energy crisis and inflation, which are being exacerbated by the prolonged war in ukraine and the sanctions imposed on russia, are upsetting the lives of millions of european citizens.
this scenario is the direct consequence of an inadequate european energy policy which, by tying electricity prices to gas prices, has created unacceptable speculative conditions.
in addition, environmental policies, while essential for a sustainable future, have often exacerbated the economic difficulties of households and businesses.
the crisis has made clear the urgent need for energy market reforms that protect citizens' social and economic rights and ensure their fair access to energy.
nearly 30% of the households in ireland are living in energy poverty.
the faces of this crisis are women – saving to put money in the electricity meter, more likely to experience energy poverty and social exclusion, more likely to be working at home and living in cold and damp homes, more likely to lead single-parent households, which are particularly vulnerable.
a new law, the recast energy performance of buildings directive, will help ensure that those at risk of energy poverty will receive renovation funds.
we need more policies and programmes like the women reboot programme, designed for women who have taken time out of their career in technology and are ready to reignite their careers in a unique, supportive environment that considers the specific needs and challenges faced by women to ensure inclusivity and equality in the digital landscape.
this is an environmental tragedy, but it is not an isolated case: we know that between 52 000 and 184 000 tonnes of pellets are spilled into the environment in the european union every year.
it should be considered as serious as the oil tanker prestige spill off the coast of galicia in 2002, or the many other hundreds of environmental disasters we have become familiar with in this plastic age.
mr president, the scientific evidence is no more clear: the combined effects of climate change and the loss of biodiversity due to over-exploitation and pollution have left marine ecosystems too degraded to function properly.
this is why we must be ambitious in order to ensure an informed, inclusive and equitable transition towards sustainable fisheries management based on ecosystems.
to this end, it is necessary to work with all stakeholders on the basis of the best scientific advice and taking into account all the impacts that changes in the use of fishing gear have on coastal communities, fishermen and the environment.
these ecosystems face enormous challenges, such as climate change, acidification, pollution, overfishing.
first, the environmental impact of a fishing art is not the same in all places where it is used.
i conclude by stressing that the commission's efforts to achieve a more consistent implementation of the european union's environmental policy through this plan are to be welcomed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the action plan presented to the pech committee in march 2023 by you, commissioner, clearly and precisely shows how the only objective is to hinder all fishing activities, in the name of an ecological idealism that is not too far-fetched.
and i am surprised that since this morning we have finally spoken little about restoring our ecosystems and pollution, mining, land and industrial pollution.
algae cultivation, for example, offers us great prospects that are still unknown, particularly in the development of green fuels and fertilisers, and also in their ability to absorb our co2 emissions.
the aim is to adopt an action plan from aquaculture to industrial fishing, in a transversal and comprehensive approach, to remedy the obstacles to our artisanal fishing, without clarity and without discernment by the commission, and to make a real contribution to the restoration of our ecosystems and to the sustainability of our artisanal fishing.
in the marine sector, as in all others, successful environmental protection is based on cooperation.
it involves all actors, including businesses, local communities often dependent on the resources we want to preserve that sustainable change can be achieved; creating alternatives rather than simply closing doors; making companies and people agents of change rather than targets to be destroyed; making decisions always based on sound scientific evidence and not on ideologies or states of mind.
environmental sustainability and economic sustainability are not competing concepts on the contrary.
- the next item is the joint debate on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the marine environment.
i therefore welcome the herbst report which says that we must reduce plastic pollution.
i talk to many fishermen on business visits and what i see are people with a lot of passion for their work and also a desire to be sustainable.
yes, i agree that we need to reduce plastic pollution, but that's not just for fishermen, and we need to protect fishermen.
mr president, (start of speech off mic) ... to ensure that we have sustainable ecosystems for fishers is a critically important aspect of policy.
there must be a full review, commissioner, of the fisheries policy; otherwise, we won’t have any fishers, never mind sustainable fisheries.
i am just saying to the right that, while on the one hand it tells fishermen that they are not responsible for the depletion of our seas, on the other, parliament and the council vote against the abandonment of fossil fuels, against the directives on polluting emissions, against the directives on plastic.
mr president, the eu already has a comprehensive body of policy and legislation aimed at protecting the marine environment, but these are not being implemented.
this was confirmed by the european court of auditors in 2020. ireland, for example, has utterly failed to meet the eu’s obligation to achieve good environmental status for biodiversity, commercial fish and shellfish and seafloor integrity.
only 18% of ireland’s commercially exploited fish populations have achieved good environmental status.
the environmental status of 60% of these commercial fish populations is unknown, and the environmental status of 41% of non-commercial fish species is also unknown.
no matter what the impact on the local populations or the environment, the demands of the european market are such that the rules will be circumvented.
a terrible story, madam president, is the title of this report the gender-related aspects of the rising cost of living and the impact of the energy crisis.
the people in this room created an energy crisis with crazy policies, destroyed industry in europe, voted on climate reports and all kinds of crazy stuff, and finally flourished with the brilliant idea of writing a resolution on gender-related aspects of rising living costs and the impact of the energy crisis.
i have voted in favour of this resolution because it calls for respect for the rule of law, freedom of expression, equal economic treatment, the rights of persons with disabilities, children and women, economic, social and environmental rights.
but at the same time i would like to give a clear message to my colleagues at the epp and in so far as it is the far right, or is it the other way around today: the european parliament has also been asked to take a decision on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
there is no future for agriculture without strong climate policies and biodiversity.
the problem today is the common agricultural policy, which is not only opposed to climate policy and biodiversity, but has actually brought the sector into these deep problems today.
the european commission, as well as a large part of the political left in the european parliament, supports the ideological proposals of the green deal, which often have no impact on food security, such as the regulation on the sustainable use of pesticides under the 'from wheat to forge' strategy.
european farmers have reduced their pesticide consumption by 30% without a sustainable use regulation.
so i joined the slovenian farmers in a protest in march last year and said that we must not destroy food security as we destroyed energy security.
the reconstruction of ukraine must be sustainable and inclusive.
this is an opportunity to ensure that we can enhance biodiversity, and increase food security, and allow farmers to embrace technologies that are proven for centuries in terms of selective breeding.
this is a regulation i believe should be supported, and is something that will be good for farmers and for food security and biodiversity.
regulations and environmental requirements restrict farmers throughout europe.
the law must not be passed in such a way that it is in the interests of our health, consumer rights, biodiversity and organic farming.
mr president, the climate law is supposed to be our answer to the climate crisis – all-encompassing, supposed to involve all sectors.
but there’s always one that we turn a blind eye to: militaries are responsible for about 5.5 % of global greenhouse-gas emissions, more than global aviation and shipping combined.
yet we guilt-trip families flying to spain on their holidays, while all of the time increasing the military carbon bootprint.
it’s totally unfair to exclude military missions from climate targets and reporting when we expect agriculture and other sectors to make cuts.
the madness of war has to stop if we’re serious about the environment.
mr president, in terms of the headline target, the commission has accepted the advice of the european scientific advisory board, but it is disappointing that the commission has retained the net zero or climate neutrality framework.
the next logical step would be to contest climate neutrality and net zero as climate concepts, and as the basis for eu climate policy.
the carbon removal certification framework could and should have been used to facilitate a separate eu carbon removal target.
rather than waste time in proceedings, the commission would gain the support of the ngos for the fight against tobacco by recognizing the ineffectiveness and non-compliance of the traceability system.