we are european because we want our countries to use their power in the face of challenges like climate change, digital transformation, tax evasion or the imperial ambitions of criminal putin.
i am sure that a strong and united europe is today the best strategy for our security, and probably the only one that is sustainable, for the protection of our democracy, our fundamental rights or even for tackling climate change.
there are valuable results of its political activity which i like to highlight, such as the creation of the single market, the free movement of goods and people within our continent, the launch of the erasmus student programme, or the special attention paid to the common agricultural and energy policy.
so your short-sighted mindset is that it's more economically sustainable, and also environmentally sustainable, to buy a new car, maybe electric, rather than fixing the old one.
from immigration issues to a pragmatic approach to climate change, from supporting industry to ongoing conflict issues: the next few months will be crucial in determining europe's future.
we must do everything we can to remove these unacceptable and outdated barriers to the elections of 9 june 2024. let's not waste any more time.
during the pandemic, europe showed its solidarity by exporting vaccines to canada, and ceta has been crucial in our respective efforts to diversify away from russia since february 2022. imports from canada went up by 25% during 2022, notably for raw materials and energy products.
a uachtaráin, the recovery of the ozone layer following the adoption of the montreal protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer in 1987 was a triumph for humans in the face of climate change.
it gave us hope that with good governance it is not too late to turn around our current trajectory towards climate catastrophe.
thus, it is essential that the eu avoids any backsliding and ensures that its ozone-depleting substances policy is aligned with the objectives in the european green deal – of which we have done so much in this mandate – the montreal protocol and the paris agreement.
a uachtaráin, regulating fluorinated greenhouse gases is an essential step in ensuring that nothing slips through the cracks of the european green deal.
these greenhouse gases are human-made chemicals that are often several thousand times stronger than carbon dioxide.
the prohibition of greenhouse gases has a proven successful track record in reducing damage to our ozone layer, and this regulation is the way to ensure that that statement remains true.
we must now, more than ever, stand united to protect and strengthen the rule of law at a time when the values of the european union are under threat, in a geopolitical environment which seems to be weakening day by day.
after the energy and food crisis set off by russia, global trade is now being disrupted by houthi terror in the red sea.
ursula von der leyen has demonstrated together with us in the last years that we are ambitious on climate policy, the brexit agreement, covid vaccines, rrf, ukraine support and the migration policy.
europe is finally increasing the budget allocation to address energy costs, the war in ukraine and the environmental disasters.
i'm a little surprised, however, by the debate we're having today, because we've actually talked about quality jobs in the last five years, first because of the pandemic and then for the whole topic of changing production models of the ecological transition and the digital transition.
but today the right-wing forces want to tell us what their vision is, what "quality posts" mean on our continent, where they have actually abandoned the social market model and are more than just feeding the waste culture, where poverty is normal and where it is legitimate to get rich at the expense of the weakest.
to your crazy environmental choices.
you want to limit farming, you want to remove subsidies and aid to farms, you want to impose new restrictions and costs on the sector, you want to criminalize farmers, you even propose slaughtering cows to protect the climate.
i am from the geothermal region of tuscany, where the first geothermal power station in larderello, larderello 1, has been built and where energy has been produced for over 100 years.
i have heard the green and left groups speak in favour of geothermal energy, but i agree that the local representatives of the no geothermal committees are referring to the greens and the 5 stars.
they say that geothermal energy is not actually renewable, so maybe a phone call to the no committees in the territory, say what you think.
the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the use of energy in the production of energy.
in 2021, even before the energy crisis, more than 20 million women than men lived below the poverty line across the eu.
the result is the mistrust of fishermen towards the policy and the european union, as the measures taken are inadequate and lack a solid scientific basis, and the mistrust of society, which does not see the desired improvements to the environment and ends up considering fishermen as enemies of the law of the sea, instead of recognizing their role in ensuring food security and the development of coastal communities.
the future common fisheries policy will require the restoration of the balance between the three pillars of sustainability and the restoration of their balance.
thanks to our common fisheries policy, we have already seen good results regarding the sustainable exploitation of commercial fisheries species.
fishing at a sustainable level clearly pays off economically, and this is a collective achievement.
but fishing at sustainable levels will not be enough to keep fisheries economically viable.
of course – let me be very clear about this – the degradation of the marine ecosystem is not provoked by fishing alone.
the state of the marine ecosystem depends on the need to ensure a level playing field within and outside the european union, the dependency on fossil fuels and generational renewal.
it is all about increasing resilience, and restoring biodiversity is one of the ways to make the fisheries sector more resilient, so that our fishermen and women can continue providing high-quality seafood.
this requires actions not only at eu level but also globally to enhance environmental standards at international level.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of our seas and the environment is something that is of particular concern to me.
but in doing so, we cannot forget the fishermen, the true guardians of the sea, the first to defend the biodiversity on which they and our livelihood are based.
we have worked together with this resolution to ensure that fisheries are increasingly sustainable in the near future, without forgetting the side challenges to good fisheries policy management.
i am referring to climate change and the ongoing ecological disasters, not least the one in galicia.
the environmental components must be in line with the social and economic components.
the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment.
the action plan should therefore protect the environment and biodiversity by taking a cross-cutting and holistic approach and not focusing solely on fishing activities, especially considering that marine protected areas have been established to protect natural resources while seabed should be managed on a case-by-case basis on a local basis.
we need clarity, especially on the binding aspects of the plan, and a little more realism in addressing the economic and environmental problems of this european union.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment.
we find ourselves at a critical point in deciding how innovations in plant breeding can make our agri-food system more sustainable, environmentally friendly and globally competitive, and, by extension, how they can address the pressing needs of society and deliver food safety and security.
we must also engage genuinely with citizens about how new technologies can help make agriculture more environmentally, socially and economically sustainable.
they should, in our view, be subject to the same rules as conventional plants, including on risk assessment, traceability, labelling and sustainability.
for example, the labelling of seeds against their original draft report is now included in the environment committee proposal.
the environment committee has adopted this text by a clear majority of 47 to 31, so we should adopt it tomorrow in plenary.
but we must go further: ensure traceability, consumer information, effectively protect non-gmo sectors, including organic farming, and monitor environmental impacts.
the accounting meeting will not only be tomorrow, it will also be on june 9.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
now, here comes the climate change argument.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow is an important day for european agriculture and an important step towards sustainable agriculture.
this is crucial in a climate where we have more drought, more problems and a great push to reduce plant protection products and pesticides.
you painted them as enemies of the climate.
you even want to kill animals because they pollute and you want to put environmental constraints on the pasture.
finally, europe has woken up and for once decided not to follow the environmental madness of the left greens, who are falsifying the facts.
at a time when food security, environmental sustainability and technological innovation are at the heart of our concerns, some reflection is needed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to reduce co2 emissions in the european union by 90% by 2040 is yet another demonstration of the irresponsibility and approximation with which the european commission defines its green policies.
based on an analysis of the average increase in one degree of global temperatures over the last century, which does not take into account the much greater temperature fluctuations that have occurred over the past centuries, the thesis that the anthropic component of global warming is predominant over natural has been accepted, a thesis denied by thousands of scientists around the world.
reducing co2 by 90% by 2040 and climate neutrality by 2050. objectives that will only lead to industrial crises, social protests, layoffs and loss of value in competition with non-european countries: i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
europe's emissions are less than 10%, and you act as if we are the only ones responsible for climate change, totally forgetting asian countries, for example.
you give away commercial sectors to go buy goods from the very countries that produce them without any respect for the environment.
the american ira was the demonstration that we can achieve our own ecological transition goals, but by attracting investment.
we have introduced a system of rules so complex that we risk not improving on environmental issues but even avoiding possible investment.
mr president, quality education is key to building prosperous, sustainable and inclusive societies.