in relation to measures to ensure compliance with the fundamental ilo conventions, the directive on public procurement sets out that member states shall take appropriate measures to ensure that in the performance of public contracts economic operators comply with applicable obligations in the fields of environmental, social and labour law established by union law, national law, collective agreements or by the international environmental, social and labour law provisions listed in annex x. i also want to refer that finally, it’s due to the european parliament that there is a social clause in the procurement directive, and that also when we discussed about the adequate minimum wage directive, parliament insisted on an as strong as possible article 9 on the linkage between collective bargaining and especially adequate minimum wages and public procurement as a leverage finally to respect these provisions, but also to create a fair and level playing field because if some respect minimum wages or collective bargaining and others not, this is also finally falsifying competition when we are talking about public procurement.
the proposal for a directive on corporate sustainability, due diligence, on which co-legislators recently achieved a political agreement, is relevant here.
it will set obligations for large companies to address the actual and potentially adverse impacts on human rights and the environment, also with respect to the operations of their subsidiaries and those carried out by their business partners.
but the second point i consider a major failure is the question of sustainability.
and the answer is very simple: because the current state of sustainability issues don't matter there.
mr president, i had the great honour and the heavy task of being in charge of the revision of public procurement legislation just ten years ago, since it was voted on 15 january 2014. our aim at the time was clearly to combat social dumping and unfair competition in labour markets, but also to increase the quality and efficiency of services to citizens, to facilitate access to markets for smes, to ensure that good working conditions and environmental criteria are met.
but like you, i have read the conclusions of the recent european parliament study on the social impact of public procurement and i find with great bitterness that even today, public authorities face legal obstacles and uncertainties when trying to apply the criteria for social and environmental allocation.
every time we go to a store, a supermarket, we see lots of logos, lots of advertisements, telling us that products are green products, recyclable products, products that are sustainable.
we have a situation today, for example, where ryanair is telling us, and they are making our consumers pay euros, because they are telling us that this is part of the environmental effort they are making to reduce pollution.
having a situation to make our products last longer is also an important part of the sustainability we need to create.
the work and negotiations undertaken by the bilan will help our consumers make sustainable decisions to truly achieve positive results in terms of our environmental transition; let us help our consumers make the best choices.
today we are not talking about inflation, about deepening energy exclusion, about the problems that are most important to europe's food security.
social justice, decent wage-labour ensuring livelihoods, equal opportunities, fair mobility and robust social assistance systems are essential elements in the european union's sustainable social market economy.
and this is a threat to the sustainability of our education systems with direct effects on our youth, on our students, on our societies, on our economies.