this proposal is referred to the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, as the committee responsible, and to the committee on agriculture and rural development, as well as to the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, for opinion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since, despite all the emergencies that europe should face, the left has decided to waste time in this house on the commemoration of the massacre at acca larentia, we want to propose a debate that is at least useful.
we could try to achieve our social and environmental ambitions through public procurement.
and meanwhile, while we change the public procurement directive, maybe we can also stop government sponsoring of the climate catastrophe.
environmental criteria is another one.
if you spend money precisely to recycle your stuff, if you spend money to respect the environmental criteria, yes, this has a cost.
so we have to reflect how better to integrate this in order to make sure that social considerations or environmental considerations have or can be fully taken into account.
this includes, absolutely, the social considerations which have an impact on our society, on the prosperity of our society as well as the environmental dimension as we talk about the green transition.
the european union is giving hundreds of millions of euros in tax money to organisations in the fields of immigration, climate and gender.
with its influence in the ports, china has the ability to frustrate our imports and exports and to frustrate our imports of defense materials, critical raw materials and energy.
we also need these investments to ensure that the ports can take their place in the energy transition, because they have a lot of potential and opportunities as energy hubs, energy carriers, energy generation, imports of critical raw materials, co2 capture and storage, maintenance stations, offshore energy facilities, as hubs in transport systems supporting the energy transition.
the supply chain is unstable and the working conditions and environmental requirements in those countries are not up to our standards.
in short, if we want to continue on the path of clean energy and we want to do so, then that means making difficult choices.
we therefore call for european cooperation in the field of responsible deep sea mining, which will enable us to rapidly expand our research into environmental effects, to be fully committed to technological development and to apply for permits without going into exploration immediately, simply to strengthen our position in the world.
it is the future of farmers that can be sustainable.
we need not less, but more farmers, within the limits of our nature and climate, and with perspective.
we have not been able to build a project involving european agriculture, making it feel like a key player in the green and uncharged transition, but without the firm support of our farmers and the entire agri-food system, any prospect of climate neutrality becomes unattainable.
unlike the populist forces, which always offer the solution to return to "how it was before", we have the opportunity to create new and decisive opportunities, from artificial intelligence to sustainable biotechnology, to re-connect with our rural communities.
in the long term, we can only ensure security of supply by protecting our good soil, with climate-friendly and environmentally friendly agriculture.
in the name of the climate, of course.
that may not seem so dangerous, but once microplastics end up in the sea, these grains pose a huge threat to nature, the environment, and the fish industry.
in order to prevent such an ecological disaster, it is important that all parties involved in the chain commit themselves to preventing loss.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, millions of pearls on galician beaches are an environmental disaster.
of course, we must take immediate action to try to mitigate the environmental and economic impact, because yes, i think it will still be felt when summer comes.
but after the immediate response, the european union really needs measures to help prevent accidents of this nature, especially in the requirements to be imposed on fleets under the flag of convenience, which operate under safety and environmental protection standards that are far below those of europeans.
mr. president, all the support to the galician people who, again, suffer an ecological catastrophe in their seas and on their beaches, but also suffer the incompetence of their government, the xunta, which reacts late and badly.
in my country, catalonia, unfortunately, we also know the problem of pollution by pellets on the coast, a particularly serious situation on the beach of la pineda, near the tarragona petrochemical field.
in this respect, the new european legislation, which we welcome, commissioner, should provide more tools both to prevent leaks and, therefore, pollution and to prevent them from going unpunished if they occur.
mr president, millions of tons of plastic are being dumped into the oceans every year, and this pollution threatens marine life and destroys ecosystems.
according to a un study, 100 000 marine mammals die each year from ingestion of plastic or from plastic waste.
it is time to take action to combat this ecological and health disaster which, unfortunately, is repeating itself.
and that's exactly the huge problem, that pollution is just too cheap.
we owe it to the environmental movement.
– mr president, honourable members, first of all, what is very clear is that today’s debate shows the importance of tackling pollution by plastic pellets as well as the complexity of this issue.
there are no easy solutions, but we do need bold and decisive action to protect our oceans and to deliver on the zero pollution target.
we are committed to reducing plastic litter at sea by 50% and microplastics released into the environment by 30% by 2030. some may be inclined to look at these targets as sort of nice figures, but when pollution strikes for real, like on the spanish coast, we see that environmental concerns climb to the top of the political agenda.
the epp must decide whether it is on the side of the polluting industry or on the side of those who suffer the consequences of pollution.
mr president, commissioner, you know that i appreciate you and you have heard me say many times and i know you do not like it when i say that you have benefited ecology over the economy, environmental protection over the protection of european union fishermen, local governance of the oceans over good governance within the union, where fishermen should be at the heart of local management.
many opportunities have been lost: the opportunity to make the european fisheries sector, a leader in sustainability, also a leader in competitiveness against powerful fleets such as those of china, russia or norway; the opportunity to recognise and promote the strategic role of fisheries and aquaculture in the context of the green pact; the opportunity to adapt the european union's ill-conceived and outdated common fisheries policy (cfp) to current challenges and needs, such as ensuring food availability and security and attracting young people to the continuation of this vital profession for society.
the objectives of the current cfp are too focused on environmental protection.
while no one disagrees that we need healthy ecosystems for economic prosperity, what the current cfp overlooks is the need to ensure that fish is caught sustainably and not wasted on the altar of environmental protection.
at the same time, new challenges and challenges were set, such as decarbonisation, landing obligation or maximum sustainable performance.
– mr president, honourable members, given the cumulative crisis we have been or are still faced with, be it climate change or the loss of natural resources, covid-19 or the energy crisis, it is our collective responsibility to help the eu fisheries and aquaculture sectors to become more resilient so that they can continue to provide citizens with high-quality food.
i would like to, first of all, start by thanking the rapporteur, mr mato, and all shadow rapporteurs for the work they have put into this report, and i truly welcome that it acknowledges the importance and the merits of the common fisheries policy and of its main objective to achieve environmental, economic and social sustainability.
it is crucial that the size of the fleet remains in balance with the available fishing opportunities if we want to ensure sustainable fisheries management.
supporting the fishing fleet in its energy transition will remain one of our big joint responsibilities for the years to come.
to facilitate this transition, the commission has already proposed a number of concrete measures under its energy transition initiative, and we have also issued a guide on funding opportunities to support stakeholders in navigating the different types of funding that can be used.
a number of funding opportunities are available to achieve the energy transition and other objectives under the european green deal, including under horizon europe and repower eu, and for that purpose, we also revised the state aid guidelines and ensured the necessary synergies with the european maritime fisheries and aquaculture fund.
i am grateful to you, mr mato, that in your report, you also addressed climate change, and in that context, more specifically, the changes we see in the oceans’ chemistry and temperature.
the european maritime, fisheries and aquaculture fund already helps the fisheries and aquaculture sector to adapt to the consequences of climate change.
the successive crises stemming from covid-19, the war in ukraine, the impact of brexit, the rise in fuel consumption, the challenges of climate change and the decarbonisation of the fleet, the problem of generational relegation, the need to flex the landing obligation, the controversial concept of fishing capacity... are issues that concern the fisheries sector and deserve an adequate response from the european union.
they function as a massive carbon sink, and many people and communities depend on them for food and for income.
they, and all the benefits that we get from them, are under threat from pollution, from the climate crisis, and also from overfishing.
if we want new legislation, then we should look at legislation to double climate protection and to stop the pesticide pollution, for example, that goes into the ocean, because without fish there will be no fishers.
where soil pollution can be harmful in one area, it is not necessary to be harmful in another.
the problem, however, is the long duration of the breeding process, whereas we need to increase the pace given climate change and disease pressure.
mr president, commissioner, i miss dedication to end fossil fuels until 2040. i also missed an ambition to end fossil subsidies until 2040. i miss a goal of 100 % renewables until 2040, even though renewables are the cheapest form of energy for our citizens and for industry, and they are that form of energy that makes us independent from fossil autocracies.
by the way, it keeps the money of energy production in our own economy.
i don’t get the point why you’re so much focusing on carbon capture and storage.
why not pay them well for changing their methods of production that are climate-friendly and environment-friendly?
the majority for radical climate policy is fleeing.
people don't want more climate policy, people want more purchasing power.
the european commission is therefore still trying to press ahead with a radical climate change crisis by: 90% co2 reduction by 2040. we're already spending billions of dollars to change the weather.
it is not the climate, but climate policy that is the problem.
more climate demands, more poverty.