farmers and transport workers express their views directly on the implementation of the climate targets, the green deal, and emissions levels, among others, which are supposed to be achieved in the coming years.
are you going to call these mass eu citizens populists, backward black people who don't understand that achieving the goals, let's say the fit for 55 package, is the only chance to save the eu economy, agriculture and the environment?
we need to enhance our resilience, particularly our energy security and critical infrastructure, and we need to support our neighbors and partners globally also to address the global consequences of war.
in recent years, pseudo-ecological marketing has become a serious problem that could grow in the name of the european union's push for the green deal.
this is the end of the premium price for products that unlawfully use labels or declarations of 'environmental', 'climate neutral' or 'environmental' nature.
i believe our work will put an end to pseudo-ecological marketing once and for all and create a solid legal framework to protect consumers from it in the single market.
mep polčák, the eib environmental information – thank you for alluding to those particular cases.
will the forced introduction of the euro in countries that have not yet adopted a common currency solve the issue of high energy prices?
poor macroeconomic management weakens the eu in every aspect, including our reaction to the exigencies of geopolitical challenges, be it war in ukraine, be it the energy crisis.
job creation and high quality are integral parts of the eu's europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable economic growth that promotes social inclusion.
poland is implementing the objectives of rural development policy in line with the theme of today's commission statement, namely strengthening food security and resilience to crises, improving quality of life, infrastructure and the environment, entrepreneurship development, farming jobs and an active society.
isn't there something about the farmers that we all respect and should respect that they're not informed about the different aspects of climate policy, the cost of the solutions that are being implemented under that policy?
in a few weeks we will vote to increase our ambitions to reduce carbon emissions by 90% by 2040. at every environment committee meeting, we hear that agriculture is the biggest contributor to climate change.
commissioner, i know the polish government is raising this issue and wants to reduce carbon emissions by 90%.
as i have said, there are elements beyond the common agricultural policy, but also: the pesticide regulation, the industrial emissions directive or the nature restoration law.
but it is also a climate crisis.
we must ensure sustainable development of agriculture and we must stand in solidarity with farmers.
last year i was the negotiator of this file and i am pleased to see my colleague, katarina barley, who presented this report this year, and very interestingly that chapter in the report that talks about social, economic and even the environment.
in one of my first speeches in this parliament i was convinced that the environment and a healthy environment should be a fundamental right for all citizens, not only europeans but also countries, in malta.
we need to see that we have a healthy environment in our constitution, in our country, but also that the environment is considered a fundamental human right at european level.
the vote will take place on thursday 18 january 2024.
the next item on the agenda is the report by alice kuhnke on behalf of the commission on women's rights and equality on the gender dimension in the context of rising living costs and the impact of the energy crisis (2023/2115(ini)) (a9-0430/2023).
older workers, on the other hand, often need support to adapt to a digital work environment.
we do not know from now on that plastic pollution in the seas and oceans has a negative impact on fish and humans who may be exposed to it directly or indirectly.
the environmental disaster that started in portugal and hit spain's galicia could also affect other european coasts.
this situation shows that we need to increase the safety control of the transport of toxic goods around europe, and to implement monitoring and rapid response services that can quickly prevent pollution or limit its scope and environmental impact.
tools are also needed to help local communities to fight for a clean environment that guarantees human and animal health.
the european commission tells farmers: a good farmer is one who does not sow, reap, cultivate, but gives his land to renewable energy, to wind farms, to photovoltaic farms, so that someone else can earn more than the farmer.
this has been the case in the context of the climate challenge: the european council has set a european climate neutrality horizon by 2050. this was finally the case in the early hours following the total invasion of ukraine by russia, when the european council set out the guidelines we have been following for the last two years, namely support for ukraine and pressure on the kremlin and russia through a sanctions strategy.
there is a need to support farmers' efforts to produce quality food, to support them as actors in the climate transition.
i would like to point out that this common agricultural policy, which is one of the pillars of european action, which represents 30% of the european budget, we are committed to it and we want to work with all of us to see how we can ensure that this pillar, which must remain strong in the future, is mobilized for the benefit of all, for the benefit of agriculture, farmers, but also of the environment and public health.
regarding how internal eu priorities are taking shape, the contradictions emerging between the environmental reach of the green deal and the social and economic consequences that follow from it require strategic clearance.
in recent weeks farmers across europe have taken to the streets to protest the insane social and environmental policies that are leading them to collapse.
humanistic and sustainable migration management is a priority challenge for the union.
the sooner, the better, because we're going to waste time and the people of ukraine.
the environment agency plus the scientific council said we can't handle 55 by 2030. what's he saying?
let's blow up the thermometer, let's punish the member states, let's tax agriculture, let's tax food, let's freeze the energy tax directive so that energy prices go up 300 to 500 percent, let's move to smaller cars, of course electric, even though they're chinese all over the european union, let's switch big houses to smaller ones.
examples include farmers' protests and the pressure farmers put on the european commission to remove from the climate goal by 2040 such as a 30% reduction in agricultural pollution, recommendations to reduce meat consumption, or pressure to withdraw fossil fuel subsidies.
climate policy should aim to protect the environment, but not at the expense of stifling member states' economies and driving citizens into poverty.
we have to be rational, or we're gonna lose the fight for the environment.
i want to quote my conclusion: the goal of climate policy should be to care for the climate, but not at the expense of national economies and not to impoverish citizens.
and then design rational actions that protect the environment and protect the economy.
who, like millions of people protesting in the streets of europe, demands a revision of eu climate policy.
the inconvenient news about the effects of climate policy is being gassed with water cannons today, but the truth cannot be swallowed up.
do you realize that most people are tired of your moral phrases about the planet, the climate and the new order you're preparing for europe?
we are talking here about the dramatic drought and water crisis in the european union caused by the climate crisis and the need for a sustainable water strategy for europe.
mr president, honourable commissioner, climate change and the associated drought threaten a substantial part of europe and 30% of the european population.
they threaten the transport, energy and, of course, agriculture sectors.
for economic and ecological reasons, the issue of river regulation, including the odra in particular, is a key investment.