this is what happens in the case of energy derivatives a sector that already had an impact on energy prices and on people's portfolio, but which had a worsening impact in the context of the war in ukraine.
although some positive proposals have been approved at this level, they are emergency proposals which do not solve the structural problem in the energy derivatives market, which has had very negative impacts on rising energy prices and therefore on household budgets.
the houthi attacks threaten the international navigation and the maritime security in grave disrespect from international law, and they endanger the lives of the civilian crews, some of them already abducted, and create serious environmental and obvious economic risks.
europe and the world are already suffering from the consequences of successive wars, and the spike on energy prices and inflation that came with it.
mr president, mr commissioner, if we all choose the most environmentally friendly product, if we decide to repair it when it fails, instead of replacing it, we will contribute to a sustainable environment and influence the market to change with us.
this proposal was one of the initiatives set out in the new consumer agenda and the circular economy action plan and follows up on the european ecological pact.
the proposal amending the dpcd aims to prevent certain unfair commercial practices such as greenwashing, early obsolescence practices and the use of unreliable and opaque sustainability labels and information tools.
the purpose of the update of the consumer products directive is to ensure that consumers can contribute to the ecological transition by better informing consumers about the environmental characteristics of products, their shelf life and their repair capacity.
these necessary measures are clearly insufficient if the political will continues to be to promote markets and to accumulate profits at the expense of the environmental consequences that result.
we will fight as a parliament for social convergence and sustainable investment in the new fiscal rules.
we propose budgetary and investment space for climate and digital transitions, defence and the european pillar of social rights.
and above all, the rules do not have a single clause protecting massive public investment, which the commission says is necessary to respond to social problems and the climate challenge.
the choice we have today is either to support a decline model that aims to produce less to fight climate change, or to choose to produce more to produce better, to use innovation and new technologies to ensure our food security that food security that is supported by the agricultural world.
i have requested, as responsible for the european budget, additional funds for agriculture and the rural environment.
it will affect the competitiveness and profitability of our businesses; it will force us to import more and more from far less sustainable third countries than we do; it will penalize our quality products, already threatened by nutri-score and counterfeiting; it'll pave the way for synthetic food and insect meal.
it was a clear signal at the time that european environmental commitments were leading to a standstill in flemish agriculture and horticulture.
the cumulative effect of a lack of appreciation, structural lower wages, unprecedented uncertainty in licensing and well-intentioned environmental legislation that in practice falls to the necks of individual farmers is rightly a cause for much dissatisfaction.
this results in a decline in public transport, more expensive energy for the people there, or, for example, the abandonment of local facilities such as schools or doctors.
the funds available must be redirected to key priorities: polyagriculture, supporting the ecological transition and agro-environmental and climate measures, and above all significantly increasing the number of farms.
they are the ones who produce high-quality food, respecting the highest environmental and food safety standards.
but food shortages, and, no, no sovereignty in this area, can prove critical, as energy has proved critical.
despite the urgent response that the grave situation demands, another cap is needed, ensuring: food sovereignty for each state; support for small and medium-sized farmers and family farming; fair prices for production and improving the incomes of producers; market regulation mechanisms; sustainable agricultural practices respecting biodiversity and the environment; food security and quality accessible to all; and the principle of national preference, importing only what is necessary.
the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, has been faced with a rise in the prices of basic goods and energy which has led to an insurmountable situation for small businesses and poverty for european families.
misguided decisions during the pandemic and an energy strategy that has prioritized completely ideologized environmental goals have led us to scarcity and to dependence on third countries.
we need energy sovereignty so that each member state can achieve a mix that guarantees us generous autonomy at a reasonable price for all.
we recognize the rise in prices and the problem of inflation, but we are equally determined to reject the use of the energy crisis as an opportunity to promote gender ideology, preferring that the document address the economic and energy challenges facing women and families in europe in a concrete and realistic way.
the creation of this new figure, accompanied by staff and additional funding, would lead to a burden on european bureaucracy which has only a political and ideological purpose but which would not be an effective solution to the energy problem.
the price increase in essential goods - food, housing, energy and telecommunications - must be stopped and requires measures to protect women and families in serious difficulties, as opposed to the astronomical profits of the large economic groups.
measures are needed to address the problems faced by women, but also their aspirations, to defend their rights and promote equality: the right to work with rights; to combat precariousness and the general increase in wages and pensions; to regulate the prices of essential goods, including energy, which must be considered an essential good and, in order to be accessible to all, must return to the public sphere; to strengthen transport, education and health services by providing quality and free healthcare to all; and to promote women's sexual and reproductive rights; to promote the increase of public housing; to prevent the spread of speculation; and to reverse the increase in interest rates, which the european central bank insists on keeping high.
we wanted to know if there was any support from the galician government, because in the portuguese press there were reports that the cleanup was being done by the town halls, by environmental activists, by sailors, but with very little support from the galician government, and i wanted to confirm if this is the reality.
it is, in a dilapidated, incompetent, foolish way, trying to hold the regional government of galicia accountable, after having belittled and even ignored the problem, when the regional government is the only one truly concerned about minimizing this environmental issue.
sánchez and his government must, if they have any political dignity, apologize, apologize to everyone, but especially to the galicians, for their incapacity and, worse, for the environmental damage that their political paralysis is causing.
once again, the reckless action of humans is causing an environmental crisis in these territories, and this catastrophe will have serious consequences and not only for the affected communities.
as rapporteur, i am looking forward to revising the directive which lays down rules for pollution from ships, advocating tougher sanctions for polluters and closer monitoring, and the competent authorities should provide for an environmental impact assessment of these disasters and the implementation of preventive measures to prevent future environmental disasters.
mr president, europe is ahead of any other power in the fight against climate change.
we have done more than anyone else, but this result is largely due to people, europeans, our companies, because emissions reductions are not made by decree.
and in the meantime, here in europe, we need to invest more in carbon capture and removal.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, very few territories can say that they are not yet suffering any consequences of climate change.
global warming will intensify sea level rise, increase the frequency of extreme weather events, among many effects on human health and, it is reported, also loss of agricultural production.
a set of concrete measures must be taken to reduce or prevent greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere.
and for that, changes in the transport sector, more efficient buildings and more investment in clean energy are urgent.
mr president, one of the causes of drought in the algarve will undoubtedly be the advent of climate change.
the fact is that the common agricultural policy has established criteria for granting subsidies and support for ecosystem services and the sustainable nature of agricultural holdings.
on the contrary, small farmers continue to see, both from the point of view of subsidies and subsidies and from the point of view of access to water, while the current government implements measures, blind cuts in water use, which are profoundly unfair and ineffective from the environmental point of view.
we need a more responsible fund policy that takes a serious look at the territories and the most sustainable forms of agriculture.
i would like to pay particular attention to latin america, where we have more than 130 investment projects focused primarily on the development of digital infrastructure and sustainability.
we must also ensure that these partnerships help us to go through the difficult paths of the two transitions, the climate and the digital, not only with convergent regulation, for example on artificial intelligence or forest protection, but also with the same basic conditions on both sides, for example in connection, so that digital technologies do not deepen inequalities but instead reduce them.