madam president, commissioner nicolas schmit, ladies and gentlemen, the question is how do we ensure that labour mobility within the european union is efficient while ensuring respect for workers' rights and a healthy competitive environment?
however, evidence shows that public authorities face legal challenges and uncertainty when trying to apply mandatory social award criteria and sustainable award criteria.
mr president, we are still talking about a greener economy and how great it is for the environment and about solutions.
we can't want everything to be eco, bio, raw, like this mantra that companies often abuse in their marketing campaigns, but they also mislead people into buying more products that they think are better, that are better, that are better for the environment.
it's going to have to be really based on some evidence that which product is really better for the environment, but that we're also looking at how to use those products as long as possible, so that we don't keep wasting, buying more stuff, but fixing those things more.
and in this respect, terms such as 'climate neutral' or 'climate positive' will be subject to future review.
sustainable, co2 reduced, climate neutral.
it is important that those who choose products that protect the environment make sure they are not deceived by false advertising.
of course, the whole economy will be engaged in meeting the objectives of the environmental pact, but it must do so honestly, and our consumers in our countries must be able to make informed choices, because that is the only way they can influence the market in the desired direction.
it is both an opportunity to avoid bloody clashes and a potential change for the future, shaping more sustainable international relations.
the choices made in the united states and in india, for example, will affect international cooperation, global security, the fight against climate change and much more.
as parliament’s influence continues to grow, the choices that eu citizens make will have a profound impact on the eu’s handling of everything from the economy and the environment, to defence and the protection of our democratic institutions.
with the droughts, forest fires, floods and other natural disasters increasing across our continent, and last year being the warmest on record, the fight against climate change is of vital importance to europeans.
in 2022, i carried out a public consultation to evaluate whether citizens have the opportunities and up-to-date information they need to participate in decision-making related to the environment.
the report and resolution refers to important issues such as, among others, the interaction between the european commission and the tobacco industry; the means for ensuring independence and no conflict of interest in advisory and expert groups; the so-called revolving doors phenomenon; the ethical and transparency rules applying to commissioners; the transparency of the eu environmental decision-making process of negotiations of trade agreements; or the recovery and resilience facility funding issues related to the common agricultural policy, as well as the handling of requests for public access to documents or concerns regarding fundamental and human rights.
in addition, when administrative processes are open and visible, a climate of trust between the administration and citizens is created.
i would like to highlight a few examples which i think are important: the study of the composition of the eu energy platform advisory group, where the fossil industry was grotesquely dominant.
i also appreciate that you launched a public consultation on your own initiative in september 2022 to assess whether citizens have access to current environmental information.
the aim was to find out how easily the public can obtain environmental documents or information and how citizens can participate more fully in the preparation and implementation of environmental policies.
i’m seeing elderly people going in, paying eur 5 for little bags of wood, paying massive money for stuff with carbon tax on it – which is a good idea if it comes back to the poor people – but i’m not seeing it coming back to the people who need it.
the wood biomass will also remain renewable at european level.
on the contrary, we must give incentives, because the natural resources sector is the only sector that is carbon-intensive and it must also provide innovative solutions to accelerate the transition.
mrs president, ladies and gentlemen, the concerns of the european farmers on strike are the same as those of the italian farmers and they have the same cause: the environmental impact fueled by the european commission.
with the excuse of protecting the environment, he treats farmers like criminals.
they are faced with new requirements for animal and environmental protection which are necessary but whose additional costs are not being paid.
by its inaction, the commission risks blowing up a justified measure, linked to the union's climate ambitions, but implemented with superficiality and without vision.
yes, we need better management of natural resources, soil quality, water, biodiversity.
yes, we need to help ukraine export cereals to areas where it needs them, but we need to do this together with farmers, who need to be consistent when we ask them to invest massively and in the short term in green production technologies, given that they already have high production costs for energy, fuel, fertilizer and still have to cope with market disruptions.
the farmers' protests, which are set to spread in several member states, are an alarm signal and call for reasonableness, vision and a clear perspective to ensure economic and social survival, while implementing reasonable and feasible environmental and climate action.
mr president, there has been much talk in this mandate about how harmful fishing is to the environment and far too little about the fact that it and aquaculture are not only the cleanest source of animal protein we have at our disposal, but also a reductive weapon in the fight against climate change.
during this time, not only the economy has suffered, but the bioeconomy as a whole, because while russia's invasion has caused considerable financial losses to fishermen who no longer have access to fish stocks, the ecosystem in the black sea has been unbalanced by the proliferation of predatory species that have caused significant damage to aquatic biodiversity.
so the report we are voting on today should not be seen in any way as a weapon between what has unfortunately become a struggle between the interests of the sector and those of the environment.
because both, i repeat, play a fundamental role not only in securing our food, but also in protecting and preserving the environment.
just see the collective defence efforts, energy imports, and sanctions.
this not only contributes to our food security but also to our fight against global warming.
the document shows that the political debate can indeed go beyond itself and that biotechnology can be embraced as a full-fledged tool in agriculture, both on the farmer's side and on the environmental side.
the commission has also proposed that the european union should be able to take measures to ensure that the community's citizens are able to live in a safe and secure environment.
mr president, commissioner, the claim to reduce eu carbon emissions by 90% by 2040, including by closing down gas and coal-fired power plants, will condemn the european economy to bankruptcy and citizens to poverty and hunger.
in school, we learned that carbon dioxide is the oxygen of plants, which through the process of photosynthesis absorb carbon dioxide and remove the oxygen that animals and humans need to live.
but today, under the leadership of ursula von der leyen, we are witnessing the imposition of a utopian, criminal ideology that requires us to completely destroy our way of life in the name of a madness: zero carbon emissions.
zero carbon emissions means the destruction of the planet, because plants produce oxygen by consuming carbon dioxide.
moreover, carbon dioxide is a gas that makes up 0.04 percent of the atmosphere.
of this small percentage produced by humans, an even smaller percentage of carbon emissions is produced by the eu.
the farmer's fight against this insane climate utopia, which will produce poverty and hunger in the eu, is just.
so you want to convert this debate about climate change into a theological argument.
let me ask you something in reply: how can you argue that 0.04 % of the carbon dioxide can produce all these bad things that you are all talking about?
if we will not be able to produce energy anymore using coal and gas, we will be relying on gas from russia.
so the water crisis is not just driven by climate change or lack of funding, but also by a lack of political will.
so, absolutely, the commission of course uses the data and we base our recommendations, our further work, on the data that the member states feed to the commission, and then that data, of course, is used by the environment agency.
in energy and transport, it means preparing for disruptions to hydropower, plant cooling and waterborne transport.
nature-based solutions are particularly well-suited for climate resilience to water impacts, and where that’s not feasible, let’s opt for hybrid green-grey solutions.
secondly, it is absolutely necessary to strengthen the financing provided to member states for the use in agriculture of alternative water sources such as treated urban waste water, groundwater and seawater desalination systems, as well as investments in the construction of reservoirs and water catchment systems.
the mandate has resulted in many important improvements in the working environment in europe.
we have passed stronger legislation to better protect workers against asbestos, a new working environment strategy in europe and better conditions for seasonal workers and emergency personnel.
just as we're short on our hands in the climate transition, we're going to exclude women from green industry.