(the sitting was suspended for a few moments)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on: the report on ghg emissions by jessica polfjärd on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on substances that damage the ozone layer and the repeal of regulation (ec) no 1005/2009 (com(2022) 0151 c9-0143/2022 - 2022/0100(cod)) the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 and in accordance with article 21 thereof, adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure referred to in article 21 of that regulation.
mr president, restricting the use of fluoridated hydrocarbons is a fine example of effective action to combat climate change.
ets is one of the cheapest ways to reduce emissions into the atmosphere.
in the climate area, this is seen, for example, in the former absurd wood-burning subsidies, called biomassers, or in the promotion of more expensive renewables instead of cheaper and safer but unpopular nuclear energy.
more recently, parliament has even sought to promote the electrification of air transport, which is by far one of the most expensive and worst ways of fighting climate change.
indeed, the compromises we discussed today together could bring about a total additional reduction in the eu's greenhouse gas emissions of roughly 500 million tonnes by 2050. this is a significant number, almost as high as the total annual greenhouse gas emissions of france and belgium together.
it is fundamental that we remain united in the fight against climate change, and that we do not close our eyes to the realities we see every time all over the world, including also in europe – and also do not close our eyes to science.
with your vote tomorrow, you can ensure that we can continue this success story of european environmental policy, a prime example of ambitious climate measures combined with the promotion of green technologies made in europe.
first of all, on behalf of jessica polfjärd, i would like to thank you for your great support in your report on ozone depleting substances.
it's less ambitious than the environment committee wanted it to be, but it's still a big step forward for the climate.
so it's very, very important for both the economy and the climate that we push recycling on a large scale.
(the sitting was suspended at 12.19)
the commission will also consider the possibility of a new eu-wide programme of action to be launched to address the issue of the protection of consumers' rights and the protection of the environment.
this will give consumers more power to act in favour of the ecological transition.
in fact, we are at a key stage in enabling european consumers to make more sustainable consumer choices.
i strongly support the limitation of so-called greenwashing and the fraudulent use of environmental or natural additives.
paying for greener energy, which may not be greener in the end, or a few euros more to the bus or airline ticket to offset the carbon footprint we create, is no longer possible.
today, it is clear that climate problems cannot be solved without it.
a free and pluralistic media environment is essential to upholding the rule of law, as independent and free media holds authorities and institutions accountable.
people in serbia deserve a political climate without constant political campaign.
i wish serbia less focus on the tragic past and more energy towards a better future.
i am very pleased that we are finally talking seriously about geothermal energy.
this energy has enormous potential for europe.
it's local, clean, carbon-free, really sustainable and reliable source of heat and electricity.
but the biggest advantage is that this energy source is really resilient to the future.
using this energy won't really swallow us up with radioactive waste, nor will we have to reassess it in 2030 2040, because it would destroy our forests, as it does with cheap energy biomass.
by excluding or disadvantaging children from poor families from the time they enter the school environment.
they risk their future and waste their potential.
fish is also the animal protein with the lowest carbon footprint, which meets the most stringent health and environmental standards.
';
the commission has also proposed that the commission should adopt a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment.
the energy transformation we want to strengthen, not weaken the strategic autonomy of european industry, must be gradual, supported by massive measures and must not harm producers or consumers.
we all expect a teacher to adapt to current technological advances, but the environment in which he works, or his salary assessment in many european countries or in my country, does not advance.
the next item on the agenda is the discussion of the question on the oral answer to the commission on association agreements concerning the participation of third countries in union programmes, submitted by christian ehler on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy and jean-lin lacapelle on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs (o-000004/2024 - b9-0009/24) (2024/2554(rsp)).