therefore, any public procurement, both in the european union and in the member states and throughout the supply chain, must comply with social and sustainable criteria.
the european union is attractive to life because of its values of wellbeing, working in a safe and healthy environment, fair wages that enable workers and their families to live in dignity, and social security from birth to old age.
past crises, particularly misrepresentations of the financial crisis, may have only taught the right-wing and liberal spectrum of european politics, which today's debate recognizes that sustainable competitiveness is not without a social dimension.
but one debate does not weigh the entire delayed mandate when we were convinced in this parliament that quality jobs were an abstract concept and were against european directives on minimum wages, platform work, european minimum income and the right to strike, reforms of european rules on social, green and sustainable aspects of public procurement and strengthening trade unions and collective bargaining.
we have to be clear and explain that this is a direct effect of climate change and it's probably not just droughts, it's a new normal, a new climate.
water, this natural commodity and source of life that we are used to using in unlimited quantities and for various purposes -- from drinking, washing, watering, production to cleanup -- is becoming less and less natural because of climate change, and water simply isn't enough for all our needs.
we must therefore act immediately and take a sustainable and integrated approach to eu water management.
the weather extremes, whether the floods we witnessed last summer in slovenia or the drought and associated water consumption restrictions we are witnessing now in catalonia and in parts of slovenia in the past, are just two wages of the same climate coin.
in addition to the management concept, it must be linked to well-defined financial means that will enable local communities, agriculture, the economy and member states to manage water and drinking water resources for all in a sustainable and comprehensive manner in the public interest.
we simply need to do more in water management to prevent victims and damage from increasingly extreme weather events and increasing pollution.