when we look back at the late 1980s, when we started to understand the problem of an ever thinner ozone layer, what we often at the poles at least describe as an ozone hole.
what happened was that the countries of the world agreed that we needed to phase out these dangerous substances that break down the ozone layer high up in the stratosphere many miles up in the atmosphere.
this is exactly the kind of process we should have in other environmental and natural and climate issues as well.
the work on the montreal protocol, which came into being in the late 1980s, is not over, because there are still some unregulated emissions, and new substances are coming in that time.
and there are also, as some other speakers have said, clear links between these ozone depleting substances and the climate issue.
so we have some of these substances that are extremely potent greenhouse gases: they can be thousands, up to 22,000 times worse per molecule than carbon dioxide.
but besides, we have the big problem that when the greenhouse effect is increased, it gets warmer down here at the earth's surface but at the same time colder up in the stratosphere where the ozone layer is.
and if that cooling continues, there's a high risk that healing the ozone layer will take a lot, much longer.
therefore, if we are to take the ozone problem seriously, we must also take the climate issue even more seriously and learn from the ambitions we have made so far in terms of the ozone deposit and do the same in other matters.
these are elections that will likely change the composition of this institution and where solutions to the great challenges facing our union - geopolitical, economic, social - such as immigration, the environment, the social pact, digitalisation - will be confronted.
we're not going to be collecting waste.
when in the market, the consumer will be able to easily choose a product with a long-term sustainability guarantee.
that way, sustainable choice will be an option for everyone, not just those in a deeper pocket.
most citizens in the european union consider the environment when they shop.
sustainable, biodegradable, conscious, green, natural.
we'll also ban all such claims that don't have an environmental impact.
green claims that are future-related, such as 30% emissions reductions by 2025, will need to be based on a detailed implementation plan.
sustainability labels will have to undergo certification procedures or be approved by national authorities.
when you see a product that says climate neutral, what do you think?
or at least that it's highly sustainable in terms of content, the way it's packed or transported?
that's why we're banning claims based on carbon neutralization.
nothing is ever climate neutral.
it's going to be a real little sustainable revolution.
many misleading commercial practices such as early obsolescence, ecoblancement, lack of transparency and credibility of certain sustainability labels have been identified within the european union in recent years.
the commission is convinced that the new rules will improve consumer protection and enable consumers to make more sustainable choices, thus contributing to the green transition.
for example, the new directive will strengthen the credibility and transparency of voluntary sustainability labels, by ensuring that they are based on certification schemes, or established by public authorities.
furthermore, an important novelty is also that companies will no longer be able to claim that their products are climate-neutral, positive for the climate, or have a reduced impact on climate based on carbon-offsetting projects outside the products value chain.
today, we see too often that such claims give the misleading impression to consumers that the consumption of such products has no impact on the environment.
now we're stopping false environmental claims and tightening the requirements for environmental labels.
we are creating fairer competition and facilitating the climate change situation.
this should be a matter of course for anyone who wants to see companies take their responsibility for climate change.
for despite this, the environment party and its party friends have tried to ban all environmental labels, stop companies from telling about their climate work and thus stop the consumption of green products.
how do we actually encourage companies to take responsibility for their climate if they're not even allowed to talk about their sustainability work?
it must be easier for consumers to shop sustainably and easier for businesses to become climate-smart.
and it is actually thanks to the fact that we have stopped the environment party and its party friends here in the european parliament that this new law is finally coming into force.
for greenwashing, it must be stopped whether it comes from businesses or from environmental leftists.
we must take the threat of climate change seriously.
many of us want to take responsibility for the climate, but it's not always that simple.
one thing that may be good from a climate perspective may be less good in another way.
a sustainability stamp must keep its promise.
that's what we have to do for the climate, and that's how we get results.
this will allow the sector to grow in a way that is sustainable, both in social and environmental terms.
we highlighted from the very beginning of this mandate, these priorities, in our strategy for smart and sustainable mobility, in which we lay the ground for the future strategic development of the entire transport system, including the ports.
the strategy confirms that ports, as transport and logistic hubs, are key for our internal and international connectivity, for military purposes, for our economy, for reducing the co2 emissions and pollution from transport.
they will also contribute to the energy transition by becoming sustainable energy hubs – for example for offshore wind, for the production and import of hydrogen, for carbon capture and storage.
the project has already identified several clean energy business models that reduce emissions from port operations, including onshore power supply.
the existing foreign direct investment screening regulation already equips eu with a framework and common criteria to identify and assess risks linked to the foreign acquisition or control of strategic assets, including in transport, energy and communication infrastructures.
the revision of the ten-t regulation, agreed by the co-legislators in december last year, gives increased importance to maritime transport and ports by creating a european maritime space, the maritime dimension of the ten-t. ports’ more prominent role in the energy transition is also reflected in the addition of a number of ports to the ten-t network.
first, by incorporating other dimensions, such as cooperation on environmental issues related to trade, adoption of recommendations on gender equality and incorporation of other topics such as artificial intelligence or cybersecurity.
in addition, ceta promotes a safer, more predictable and more stable economic environment, with full respect for the principles of sustainable development, human rights and labour and environmental standards.
the past years, with the crazy inflation and russia’s illegal invasion of ukraine, we have seen energy poverty rising.
we have a responsibility to act because it is the vulnerable that pay the price for our dependence on fossil fuels and the volatile energy market.
the only long-term remedy against demand shocks and price volatility is that socially just transition to a green and more efficient energy system.
energy poverty is a recognised challenge at eu level, according to the european commission.
energy poverty is a widespread problem across europe.
globally and in the eu, women are far more likely to experience or fall into energy poverty.
and we also know that the situation is growing worse and gendered energy poverty is increasing.
but unfortunately, the commission has delivered a green deal and energy policies that are completely gender blind.
in practice, the result is that europe is failing to secure a socially fair energy transition.
it is, in fact, about security, security policy and climate change.
european farmers must be given the right tools to face the future, as demands on agriculture increase and as the climate changes.
today we have a technology that is price-earning and can help us take a step forward in the eu's climate action a technology that allows us to strengthen the competitiveness of european agriculture and increase our food supply.
firstly, i do not understand why once again the precautionary principle is being sacrificed to the detriment of citizens' health and biodiversity.
as you know, this is a key political file, important for our economy, the sustainability of our food system and the livelihoods of our farmers.
the rules we are proposing maintain a high level of protection of human, animal and environmental health.
let it not be said that the eu did not listen to our farmers and scientists on the need for new tools to support food production and overcome very real challenges, because climate change impacts, such as extreme weather events and new plant pests, pose a direct threat to agriculture here in the eu and worldwide.
but it will shift agriculture towards more sustainable.
russia's war on ukraine has made it clear that we must take greater responsibility for climate change and make europe fossil-free as soon as possible.
i, and we social democrats, will fight to strengthen the eu's climate ambitions and reduce emissions by at least 95 percent by 2040. just cutting by 90 percent is not an increase in ambition, we cannot afford it.
and i must remind commissioner hoekstra of your promise to set an ambitious climate target for 2040. it's business as usual.
in addition, we would need to update the scientific evidence given the rapid acceleration of global warming that we are seeing right now.
we should have a target of having as few emissions as possible before 2040 so that coal storage can be increased.
in this underlying, there's a huge technological optimism about some kind of science fiction technology that's going to be developed and remove carbon from the atmosphere.
the way we can remove carbon from the atmosphere on this time scale is in agriculture and forestry which would need to be fundamentally reformed.
in the commission’s view, a package for mc13 should include the following six components: substantial progress on dispute settlement reform; concluding phase two of the fisheries subsidies negotiations; a pathway for agriculture towards mc14; the extension of the e-commerce moratorium and associated work programme; making the wto a forum to discuss trade and industrial policy and the interface between trade and environment, updating the ‘deliberative function’, in wto jargon; a package for developing countries.
as members of this house are well aware, the conclusion of phase one of the fisheries subsidies agreement at mc12 was an example of the wto’s concrete contribution to implementing the un sustainable development goals.
agriculture will be an important file at mc13, not least given the global food insecurity context, but also given its link to development and to environmental sustainability.
it will be important for the eu to continue promoting the reforms towards more environmentally sustainable policies, in line with the approach in our own agricultural policy.
another key challenge is the interface between trade and the environment.
the resolution focuses on very central areas such as agriculture, fisheries subsidies, trade and climate, a permanent moratorium on digital trade tariffs and, of course, also on facilitating smes.
in addition to all the tragic loss of life, the wars have created additional pressures in the form of inflation, rising energy prices and disruptions to global supply chains.
we are losing the wealth of billions of people and we are missing the important collaborations on climate and the environment, technology and investment.
disputes must be resolved and the trade organization must be at the forefront so that we can tackle climate change emissions through trade policy.
because today we need sustainable trade, not green protectionism.
trade must also operate in a digital environment.
trade policy can help us to eliminate harmful subsidies that are bad for the climate and that are depleting our biodiversity and our oceans.