deepfakes may often be funny or creative expressions and could even enrich our online environment, but deepfakes may also gravely impact our security.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the debate this evening shows that regulation has lagged behind technology and that it was time to come up with a regulation of the online environment and i congratulate the commissioner on the proposal she has made.
among these policies, i will focus on prevention: 40% of cancers are preventable, and, beyond changes in individual behaviour, it is up to public authorities to take systemic measures to reduce environmental risk factors.
it is therefore up to us as legislators to make the fight against cancer our priority and to keep in mind the commitments we are making today when we deal with legislation such as tobacco, chemicals, pesticides, air pollution and the farm-to-table policy objectives.
less than a year ago, we adopted here in the european parliament the new eu-africa strategy for a partnership for sustainable and inclusive development.
the abolition of restrictions on the movement of goods and services has undoubtedly been a key factor in creating prosperity and economic growth in the member states that joined the community after 2004. however, despite clear evidence that free trade and the freedom to provide services have a clear positive impact on our economy, there are still many non-tariff barriers that inhibit the potential of european businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, operating in a cross-border environment.
specifically, along with the updated industrial strategy that we presented last year, we published the first annual single market report, which gave an overview of the pertinent single market barriers, ecosystem by ecosystem, and analysed the progress made in tackling them.
we also find it crucial that we clarified what gold—plating means, and that the report correctly distinguishes it from setting of higher standards that go beyond eu—wide minimum standards for environmental and consumer protection, as well as healthcare and food safety.
it is also extremely important for us – as is clearly stated in the text – that member states keep their right to regulate and the pursuit of legitimate public policy objectives such as protection of the environment and consumer or employment rights.
batteries are a key technology for the energy transition in europe.
they are essential for sustainable mobility and for the storage of energy from renewable sources and are also an integral part of our daily lives.
for the first time, batteries must meet minimum requirements for sustainable and socially responsible mining of raw materials.
for more than 40 years, the environment action programmes have been the key to european environmental and climate policy.
the proposal for the eighth environment action programme, which is now being negotiated, was put forward by the commission in 2020, a year in which we were in the midst of the pandemic.
this leads to sharp price increases in energy, other consumer goods and food.
as at the beginning of the pandemic, there are voices again that we must sacrifice our ecological focus in the current situation.
climate change therefore also means security problems.
reducing dependence on fossil fuels, promoting and greening industry and sustainable food production must be at the heart of our common policy.
three points: the eu's agricultural legislation, farm to fork and biodiversity strategy need to be reassessed in their entirety.
among their many effects, these actions have caused energy difficulties, first for ukraine of course, but also for our european union and beyond.
among these effects, a substantial increase in gas prices in the european union is already being felt, as well as a rise in international oil prices, in addition to the increases we have been experiencing, in particular as a result of the economic recovery, since autumn 2021. we must therefore also, in our reactions and responses, target our response to ensure the security of our energy supplies and reduce our dependence on russia as quickly as possible, in cooperation with our international partners.
following the russian invasion of ukraine, these issues were immediately discussed by the energy ministers, under the french presidency of the council, with the organisation of an extraordinary council convened on 28 february.
for ukraine, as for moldova, this connection will ensure energy security in the short term.
the council of energy ministers also took stock of the toolkit presented by the european commission last october.
on this basis, member states have introduced in recent months a number of measures to cope with the rise in energy prices and to control tariffs in the face of these exceptional increases.
on the basis of the european commission's proposals, and the repowereu plan in particular, we must accelerate the reduction of our dependence by controlling and reducing consumption, by coordinating the diversification of our supplies and by taking measures to speed up the energy transition.
a dependent continent is a weaker continent; we must take this into account both in the short term, with the measures described, but also and above all in the medium and long term, because, beyond this attack and this war, the question of dependence has shown how sovereign europe cannot be without a more ambitious energy policy, among others.
all these subjects will be dealt with concretely, on the basis of the proposals made less than 48 hours ago by the european commission: reducing dependence, diversifying supplies, the additional investments needed, controlling energy prices, joint purchasing, controlling the ceiling tools that will be discussed and the functioning of our markets.
this is already a historic choice, which will ensure and strengthen our energy sovereignty and beyond.
diversification of sources and supply routes, and the transition to clean forms of energy are absolutely imperative.
we must also take into account a dual dimension in this energy strategy: the social impact on households, the middle classes in particular, our economies and industries, it would be counterproductive to weaken europe at the very moment when we need to strengthen it, and the international dimension, beyond the current war.
i would like to conclude by saying that we are thus returning to the origins of the european project, which has been built since the 1950s on the pooling of energy resources.
commissioner simson apologises that she could not speak to you as she’s participating in a meeting of the international energy agency in paris.
the war has had a ripple effect on europe’s energy policy and energy security, and it’s now moving into a new era.
it is now clearer than ever that we need to move even faster to reshape our energy system and bring our dependence on russian energy to the end as soon as possible.
since 2009, when russia stopped gas deliveries to ukraine, we have been working to diversify and secure our energy supplies.
thanks to an adequate regulatory and financial toolbox, we have succeeded in building a dense, well-interconnected and resilient energy network, which has effectively prevented damaging disruptions of energy supply, including under current difficult geopolitical circumstances.
and third, on affordability, a set of measures to mitigate the impact of high energy prices on households and companies.
this is done with a special focus on gas by diversifying our supplies, massively investing in renewables, green hydrogen and boosting energy efficiency.
two weeks ago, eu leaders came together at the versailles summit and agreed to the key principle behind repowereu: we must be in charge of our own energy future.
and that means that we cannot let any third country to destabilise our energy markets nor influence our energy choices.
this year, we need to reduce reliance on russian fossil fuels imported through diversification of supplies and greater reliance on lng and energy savings.
over the next 5 years, and starting already now, we need to speed up our switch to renewables, increase energy efficiency, and develop new clean technologies like hydrogen.
furthermore, given the strategic importance of gas storage, we are also proposing an obligation to certify all underground gas-storage operators to avoid potential energy security risks linked to the ownership of the storage facility.
we are also ready to expand its tasks as necessary to create a fully fledged energy task force that could not only coordinate the refuelling process, but also prepare the ground for more structured energy cooperation with key gas suppliers.
this includes boosting renewables and energy efficiency, and it means more biomethane and renewable hydrogen, more innovation, heat pumps and solar panels on rooftops.
it means getting serious about saving energy, which is one way that everyone can contribute to solving the current crisis.
therefore, the commission will propose ways to simplify and shorten permitting and authorisation, promote the take-up of corporate purchase agreements and develop a european solar energy supply chain.
member states also have the possibility to take advantage of windfall profits in the energy sector and tax them.
the commission is looking into all possible options for emergency measures to limit the impact of high gas prices spreading to energy costs for end-users.
the commission will also assess options to optimise electricity market design to reap the benefits from low-cost energy.
the final report of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators, acer will inform our work on this, as well as other contributions on the functioning of the electricity market.
our people and businesses are also showing understanding for the higher energy prices.
i do not understand the member states which have not yet reduced energy taxes.
and of course, reducing our energy dependence on putin, that's what we're called upon to do.
that's why we need low-carbon solutions that make these transitions financially viable.
but to abandon competition in the energy markets altogether now would be the worst preparation for the post-war period imaginable.
it is unacceptable to have in the european union countries like romania, where someone can sell energy at ten times the cost price.
this has nothing to do with any market economy and nothing to do with what a functioning energy market would be.
and i say to those who oppose this price cap, it's not the cap that distorts competition, it's this very action of speculators that distorts competition, and they have to be punished, and i ask you to take action to have a functioning energy market.
we need to save energy -- in industry and in our buildings -- doing everything from lowering the temperature in our living rooms to maybe putting on an extra sweater.
and we should have major campaigns to make citizens aware of the great benefits of saving energy.
we need to build on renewable energy.
because the new thing is that these energy sources are in europe's strategic interest.
my group also believes that the commission's proposals are moving in the right direction: reducing dependence on russia by diversifying sources of fossil fuel supply, reducing consumption, and accelerating the development of renewable sources.
now it is proposing joint gas purchases, gas storage regulations, other solutions and at the same time a faster transition towards renewable sources.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, energy and fuel prices have reached unsustainable levels throughout europe, not only because of the war but also because of the shameful speculation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european union is the world's largest importer of energy and must take advantage of this weight to buy energy jointly and to set a ceiling on the price of fuel.
in the long run, however, the only real answer is renewable energy, as my movement has been saying for over a decade.
madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the security of energy supplies and the reduction of our external vulnerability are more important than ever.
let us do everything we can to accelerate the transformation of energy supply now, really fast.
but the others - and i look to your government, mr beaune - have done too little to complete the internal energy market.
mr president, your reference to storage capacity indicates that the european energy infrastructure is not perfect.
and i am a little surprised that mr krasnodębski here is almost showing a little satisfaction with the fact that the energy revolution is somehow responsible for this happening now and for our situation.
the only thing we can really do is to get the energy revolution going at the speed of light.
i have to say, madam president, i would also like to thank the commission and the council for their statements on our common european approach to affordable, secure and sustainable energy.
we do not have time to restrict even more the use of good and sustainable biofuels produced in europe.
we need to use all kinds of renewable energy - whether it's hydro, wind, bio or solar - because we need it.
only with european energy competition and a wide range of offers will our renewable energy eventually be affordable and secure.
stability was the very reason this instrument, the market stability reserve, was originally created - an instrument whose job is to keep us all focused on our environmental targets to continue to reduce emissions, and to make sure that the system is strong enough to withstand the shocks that come to the world from time to time.
while the environment has been relieved of the damage caused by human activity, we have not stopped working to protect our environment more permanently.
we were the first continent to act during a pandemic and pass climate legislation, commit ourselves to be carbon neutral by 2050, and launch an ambitious package, fit for 55, that will see us go far beyond what we have committed ourselves to in the past.
we understood that to maintain stability and to stay on track to meet our environmental and climate targets, we had to act immediately as a parliament, on the advice of the european commission, to extend the intake rate and allowances of the market stability reserve until 2030 - rates that are twice those originally planned but that reflect the realities we are living in today and our strong ambition for a greener europe.
so in a few months we were able not only to work on the law extending what we have today but to get it through the environment committee in a hurry and we are here today to seal what we have already agreed on.
it seems that the council has not even started discussions on whether or not to agree to this extension, so let me make an appeal - an appeal to the council of ministers to move on this important extension for european families and businesses - an extension that ensures stability at a time when it is so much needed; the commission has also proposed a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact of the eu's actions is taken into account in the decision-making process.
because we want to have a green and environmental transition that is fair for everyone - a transition that leaves no one behind.
this proposal is a small but very important element of the fit for 55 package, a set of comprehensive proposals to reach our climate goals.
the market stability reserve (msr) for the eu emissions trading system (ets) has been operational since 2019. this reserve is a very important part of our ets.
as a result of the operation of the msr in recent years, the surplus of allowances has decreased from 1.65 billion in 2018 to 1.38 billion allowances in 2019. the increase in the surplus of emission allowances that one could have seen in 2020 due to lower emissions because of covid-19 was limited also thanks to the msr.
we welcome the broad support in the environment committee for this, and i hope that this is confirmed this week here, in parliament.
a well—functioning ets is key to deliver on our climate ambition by 2030. the proposals on the intake rate for the msr is a small part of that, and i count on your support also for the broader reform that we have on the table.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
eu emissions trading is the european union's flagship tool for efficiently reducing greenhouse gas emissions by setting a clear reduction pathway that enables us to meet our reduction targets.
that's why a strong, well-functioning emissions trading system is essential to achieving our green deal goals.
in order to ensure that emissions trading remains such an efficient, reliable and shock-resistant instrument, the market stability reserve has been in place since 2019. the itre committee has accepted my proposal to extend the msr until the end of the trading period by a large majority.
this is how we prevent the msr from leaking in 2023. any changes to the functioning of the msr will be discussed, if necessary, in the context of the review of emissions trading.
i would like to thank the colleagues who have supported me in working on the msr and ensuring that european emissions trading continues to be such a powerful tool in the fight against climate change.
energy costs are rising many times over in a very short time.
now you might think that the eu would do everything it could to counter this development, to lower energy prices, to help businesses in distress, to support europe's economy in this difficult situation.
the reform of the transeuropean energy infrastructure does, of course, involve some fundamental improvements.
there's more focus on renewables and offshore, there's a climate check, and in terms of control, the gas grid operators finally have less power.
i have listened carefully to what has been said over the last hour and a half, and i can see that we all want more sustainability in the internal market and more products that are easier to repair.
everybody wins: from the environment, from the amount of waste, from the energy consumption... and it's not the entrepreneurs who lose, as some would like to say, because, look, they can innovate by increasing the durability of products and they can make a repair center, even that manufacturer.
i think we can all agree that this is not sustainable.
because high-quality food produced locally and in harmony with nature is important for the quality of life of people in europe, but also for climate protection.
and we must definitely give more space to this model of sustainable management in europe.
we must create the conditions for sustainable growth and not just talk about targets.
they bring environmental and economic benefits to our organic farmers and rural regions by ensuring income and creating jobs, while making a significant contribution to animal welfare and the protection of the environment, climate and biodiversity.
a strong, sustainable and above all diverse eu agricultural sector is a vital component of our food security.
in drafting the report on the eu biodiversity action plan, we have largely put aside ideological differences in favour of common sense, because at the heart of it all we agree that we want to develop and strengthen the biosector in europe.
in conclusion, i would like to stress once again that sustainable agriculture cannot and must not be only organic.
i'm a conventional farmer myself, and i know very well that with other sustainable farming methods, we can produce high-quality food with very high animal welfare standards.
in developing a sustainable eu food system, there is no single agricultural model that is suitable for all countries and regions.
but we have done it in a sustainable way and very successfully.
organic farming plays a significant role in providing sustainable solutions to many of today's challenges.
but please: if we want to be successful, let us do it sustainably, let us give ourselves the time we need, the time our member states need, the time our farmers need - for us and for our environment.
there was some slight majority in favour of more european climate policy.
framework for minimum income and wages, guaranteeing gender equality and equal access for all to public services, minimum pensions, social housing, fight against youth unemployment, a ban of unpaid internships – and last but not least, of course, a strong focus on the green and sustainable economy and green jobs.
and this is why we, as greens, strongly support a convention as soon as possible, including treaty changes, to move forward to a social union, to a sustainable union, and to a gender equal union.
beyond these debates, however, we have strong concerns about what it means to have access to an effective health system that increases the life expectancy of european citizens, or to education, which can be defined as immediate priorities for them: tackling climate change by using resources efficiently and taking into account the specificities of each country or access to affordable and quality food are also strong concerns of citizens.
citizens from the european and national panels, colleagues from the national parliaments, meps, representatives of civil society, social partners, regional authorities, council and commission members, all were able to join forces to reach compromise, to make europe stronger, more resilient, more sustainable, and more social.
we need a change on health union, on energy union.
we need a clear and sustainable strategy to combat the illegal use of spyware in order to protect the people affected and to protect europe's fundamental values and to win trust.
but they are threatened not only by a difficult economic situation and the consequences of climate change, but also by questionable developments in the region: armed conflicts, terrorist attacks, military coups, followed by the depletion of basic human rights, refugee movements, and the lack of basic social services, education and even food.
so therefore, dear colleagues, it’s not any time to waste on huge discussions.
mr president, europe’s energy crisis is not the lack of natural gas that we have, but it is our dependence on natural gas.
fossil fuels are not only the drivers of climate change, they are now also instruments of war.
we have to become the continent where the energy future of tomorrow actually happens today and where we leap into that development.
we need to have a decentralised, renewables-based system with a strong european grid supported by sustainable storage solutions.
we will have to leap into the energy future of tomorrow today, otherwise our freedom also depends on that.
and the thing about pesticides is, the more pesticides we use, the more they damage not only the health of the soil, not only our own microbiome, but they also damage the environment, the water, the air, the animals, the pollinators.
so it's very important that we understand what sustainable agriculture is, what sustainability means.
and will the sustainable use of pesticides really be introduced before the summer?
i have to say, madam president, it is an absolute fact that air travel is a rapidly growing source of greenhouse gas emissions worldwide.
if we are to achieve climate neutrality by 2050 - and i hope that a large majority of our colleagues here still support this objective - then all sectors must contribute, including air transport.
the international icao system covers only a tiny fraction of the emissions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
this strategy of driving industry out of europe is highly damaging to the environment, counterproductive and pointless.
but i don't see a deal if we weaken our airports and airlines with a one-sided emissions trading system.
and it would be a deal if we were to expand good, sustainable and produced in europe biofuels and synthetic fuels, because to maintain our competitiveness and to achieve our climate targets quickly we need all the technologies, and that is why europe needs the combustion engine.
we are going to adopt a series of ambitious climate targets tomorrow, and we really have the opportunity to make europe more climate-friendly and take our technologies with us to the rest of the world.
the five star movement is calling for an immediate cap on the price of gas, but also for a tax on financial transactions in energy markets to tie the hands of speculators.
we also call on the commission to proceed with the joint purchase of gas, but without forgetting the real long-term objective, the ecological transition, which can only be achieved through a new european recovery fund intended exclusively for the financing of the latter.
these measures mean that the european union will be better prepared to deal with new crises and increases in energy demand.
but this is only one of the steps needed to ensure energy security in the european union.
it is also necessary to diversify sources, suppliers and resources, build the infrastructure that is still lacking, increase energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy and create the conditions for a true hydrogen economy and society.
we must now - and this is the next task for this parliament - talk about how we can finally massively expand renewable energy and renewable energy storage.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
this applies to criticism of unchecked mass immigration, of increasing centralisation or even of climate policy.
biodiversity is a global crisis.
but my question is: how can we help to make the biodiversity crisis visible in other parts of the world?
what concrete steps are you taking as commissioner in this area to really bring attention to this and to really promote biodiversity not only in europe but also in other parts of the world?
how do you know that some of the production in other parts of the world is not going on in worse conditions and destroying the environment in other parts of the world?
by 2025, 50% of the loan volume is to be used for climate finance.
sustainability also means that the process of transformation is successful, that the employment and competitiveness of european enterprises are also safeguarded in this change.
it is the key to employment, stability and a sustainable outlook for the lives of people in their home countries.
we need multifunctional, sustainably managed forests if we are to achieve our climate and environmental goals.
but without the active use of the renewable resource wood and the involvement of forest owners, it will not be possible.
we must therefore speak out clearly against the new obstacles to sustainable forest management and to the empowerment of forest owners and the principle of subsidiarity in forestry policy.
in forestry, we are ready to contribute with our know-how, our renewable resources.
we are ready to support the transition to a sustainable europe and to showcase the many benefits of europe's multifunctional, sustainably managed forests.
in the midst of the energy crisis, with energy prices exploding, the eu commission wants to limit and reduce energy production from wood - that is precisely the consequence of this forest strategy.
the use of the only renewable raw material readily available in europe for energy production is to be massively restricted and reduced.
in recent years, in the interests of sustainability and regional development, a large number of plants for the production of energy from wood have been built: biomass, wood chips, pellet plants, combined heat and power plants.
the european energy supply is threatened with the stroke of a pen.
and with a stroke of a pen, world-class know-how in the field of energy production from wood is destroyed.
let us create better conditions in the learning environment through school psychologists and staff for special educational needs.
let us finally achieve the goal of a european education area by 2025. a healthy learning environment prevents mental problems, particularly by including arts, culture, music and sport in the curricula.
we feel that europe must turn its back on the energy question.
it is all the more incomprehensible that the renewable energy directive is now discussing that these hydropower plants, which have been producing wonderful green electricity for many years, should not be counted for the production of green hydrogen.
that is why i am calling for support for our amendments nos 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14. let us use our existing hydrogen potential, not only in austria but in the whole european union, on the common path to climate neutrality.
we are facing a harsh winter here - for many people who also write to me that they are already looking at their energy bills with despair, entrepreneurs who are afraid that they will not be able to continue their businesses in winter.
europe can no longer wait for a drastic and really tangible relief, and europe can no longer wait for clear energy saving targets.
we really don't have time to waste, and it's up to us to deliver here.
the neue bauhaus can play a decisive role in this context, particularly in times of rising energy prices and the acute risk of impoverishing millions of households in europe.
if we actively create the conditions for sustainable social and economic development, we will improve the quality of life in the european union.
they are groaning under inflation, rising food prices and, of course, skyrocketing energy prices.
but it also requires a radical intervention in the energy markets.
the way these energy markets are designed and organized, they no longer work.
energy market liberalisation has failed because at the end of the day it cannot guarantee supply or reasonable prices.
the statements of the german minister of economy that the bakery should temporarily close because of high energy costs and that the population can shop at the discount store cheaper, do not only create confidence.
it is therefore all the more important that we now rapidly reduce energy costs at european level for the benefit of businesses, jobs and competitiveness.
the health, food security and water supply of hundreds of thousands of people would be threatened, and the expected oil spills would affect people’s livelihoods as well as the rich ecosystem, nature and climate.
it needs childcare, education, cultural services, health facilities, mobility, energy efficiency, and also disaster prevention and protection.
energy costs, shortages and rising energy prices are increasingly placing our industrial enterprises in difficulty, and many of them have already had to close production lines or close factories.
we need a rapid reduction in energy costs, we need intensive research funding.
disinformers also exploit the fear of rising energy prices to incite hatred among people.
the required sanctions for non-compliance with the paris climate targets should therefore be rejected.
given the enormous energy needs of emerging countries, excessive demands would only push them further into the arms of china, rather than making them reliable partners for the eu.
i regret that both are missing from the commission's 15-point action plan on trade and sustainable development.
we see this in many areas: in energy supply, in the problems of global supply chains, but also in the agricultural sector.
and as the shadow rapporteur on the environment committee's regulation on the reduction of methane emissions, it should be noted that the unnecessary use of synthetic and mineral fertilisers also leads to an increase in methane emissions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
and let's not forget that we're also in the middle of a dramatic energy and supply crisis right now.
finally, please present realistic and technically feasible plans for the energy supply in the eu countries.
the focus must therefore be on those programmes which are certain to strengthen europe in the geopolitical environment.
and the imf is demanding unpopular reforms, such as freezing the salaries of the bloated public service and cutting subsidies for energy and food.
of course, short-term credit alone does not guarantee a sustainable future.
food insecurity has reached a ten-year high, driven by rising food and energy costs and also by the aftermath of war.
three examples of the dramatic impact of climate change, war and inflation in already troubled acp countries: in sudan, food prices rose by almost 150% in one year, in ethiopia by 50%, and in the solomon islands rice and milk prices tripled.
the energy crisis will present cultural operators with problems that are difficult to cope with, especially this winter.
repowereu has to solve the urgent problem of our energy supply, to get us out of dependence on energy imports, to guarantee affordable, secure and sustainable energy for europe.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate change strategy and its implementation in the context of the union's climate change strategy.
repowereu is not an instrument of cohesion policy or environmental and climate protection.
but abandoning climate action is not an option, especially in the wake of the un cop27 climate conference in sharm el-sheikh.
firstly, because we need to find the money to repay the nextgenerationeu loan without burdening the community budget by cutting programmes that citizens are waiting for, but also to finance the new social climate fund and tackle energy poverty.
the european union, which has been at the forefront of tackling climate change, cannot fail to take the lead in this area too, at a time when social and fiscal inequalities are dangerously increasing.
and those who say that possible sources, such as emissions trading, are burdening companies, can finally start doing their homework at home, looking at their own tax systems and reducing unnecessary burdens on entrepreneurs and citizens.
we take responsibility for the climate.
we are taking responsibility for a sustainable economy of the future in europe.
we are now awaiting the discussion of the energy ministers tomorrow, and we hope that the proposal will be substantially amended so that it can really have a deterrent effect on speculative behaviour.
madam president, in september, here in this very place, i dared to warn of the dramatic consequences of the energy situation in the european union.
the single energy market.
a market that harmonises energy prices raises the lowest and lowers the highest.
this european energy market is not a solution, but a cause of the disaster.
since russia has weaponized energy supplies, a new question has arisen: how will the energy supply, primarily natural gas, work for the few years until sufficient renewable energy is available?
commissioner simson, you mentioned a number of new interconnectors and you added very quietly that member states are now abandoning the isolation of their energy markets.
the member states must be able to provide each other with supplies and support in the event of energy shortages.
madam president, dear commissioner, tomorrow we will be able to observe a jubilee, because i counted and our energy ministers will meet for the 10th time since the start of russia’s invasion of ukraine.
in february, views were exchanged, and there was a discussion in june at some point – the energy crisis wasn’t even on the agenda.
the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the legal protection of the environment is guaranteed.
it is clear that we must support grazing and rearing in this great challenge for our landscape, for our ecosystem and that the freedom of movement in nature must continue.
we need to create the conditions for such companies to be able to do this, so that a european ecosystem for quantum computing can change the world.
we need a strong vision for europe's rural regions, as they are a key to solving many of today's challenges and a yardstick on the way to a more sustainable european economy.
europe needs the people in the regions as much as our farmers, forestry and energy producers.
we are discussing today one of the important documents in the fit for 55 series, renewable energy.
this is a really important document, which should mainly simplify the administrative process for renewable energy construction.
we are indeed currently facing in many member states a situation where there are different settings, whether geographical, energy mix and these conditions are very complex.
we also need to take very seriously the need to maintain the stability of energy networks, as member states have to deal with back-up electricity even in the event of a power outage from renewable sources.
i would like to thank mr pieper once again and i hope that together we will be able to find a sensible solution to this complex legislation, so that we can simplify and speed up the process on the one hand, but not create unnecessary crises in the supply of electricity or energy in general.
europe is facing an unprecedented energy crisis.
european citizens are forced to pay a daily penalty surcharge for energy.
so now we must focus all our efforts on solving the energy crisis.
in the current situation, any initiative that increases the role of renewable energy and reduces red tape should be supported.
however, it is important to note that to increase the weight of renewable energy, significant improvements to the electricity grid are also needed.
madam president, mr timmermans, you have made a very good proposal because you, and we, and all those who are interested in having energy that is cheap and available, have found that this renewable energy is not available in the quantities that we need.
well, what if the average approval and commissioning of a renewable project in the european union is seven years?
that's why, the fact that we reduced the mandatory implementation time to nine months, the fact that we said that for the elements that have to come to operate these renewable energy parks, whether they're wind or solar, the approval time is limited to six months, so that we can get them up and running quickly and for the benefit of everyone.
without storage, we can't have renewable energy, we can't have the quantities we want.
and to be consistent with our energy policy, that's something we want to do.
i have to say, madam president, the energy crisis shows the destructive power of fossil fuels.
they are destroying our climate, and they are destroying european security.
renewable energy is our future, not just in the fight against climate catastrophe, but for european independence and affordable energy.
any unnecessary prolongation of the procedures for photovoltaic, wind energy or pumped storage is a hindrance to the freedom of european women.
culture as a driver of sustainable development and social justice must be given top priority in the council's agenda until 2026, in the face of high inflation, inflation, war and horrendous energy prices.