i hope that during the trilogues with the council and the commission, together with members from other political groups, we will continue the dialogue and achieve a better digital environment for european citizens.
this is how we can help young people who are full of energy and good ideas.
this implementation report deals with particularly sensitive issues, which affect member states' policies, the efficiency of the internal market, the digital and environmental transition and the well-being of our citizens.
we also believe that while the pandemic has catalysed the development of digitalisation for all transactions, transparency, accountability and automated reporting still need to be ensured, which are essential for a definitive, simplified and sustainable vat regime.
finally, we propose to support the climate transition by gradually removing harmful products, but also those that are highly polluting, from the list of derogations from the standard rates.
the reform, as requested by parliament, provides for the phasing out of fossil fuels or products harmful to the environment and an acceleration of digitalisation.
to reduce the incidence of cancer in our societies requires transforming the habits and lifestyles as well as the social and environmental conditions of our population.
it describes the effects of air pollution, alcohol, tobacco, radon and other components on cancer, as well as the deadly effect of covid-19 on cancer.
let's also remember the year 2014 after the maidan, when ukraine was reorganized and the son of the then us vice president biden, namely hunter biden, was elevated to the supervisory board of burisma, one of the largest ukrainian energy companies, and the american woman jaresko, i believe, was expatriated in the express procedure and on the evening of the same day she was ukrainian and became minister of finance.
mr president, putin’s russia supporting ethnic cleansing, then self-determination, using hybrid war, political corruption and energy blackmail against the west, killing opponents on our territories.
climate policy must have a gender perspective.
an effective climate policy in sweden, in the eu, globally should require women to be at the negotiating table.
if we take a gender perspective, we also see very clearly how climate is linked to a justice perspective.
we are seeing in concrete terms how we are creating societies that are resilient and sustainable, both socially and ecologically.
we see the need to protect nature and adopt ambitious climate targets.
we see that we have to reset our production, our industry, if we're serious about actually dealing with the climate.
it is, my friends, a feminist, red and green climate change.
i think it's safe to say that we're a leader in promoting this idea, which is to make sure that we're working for security, peace, economic growth, environmental improvement.
there is no doubt that there are links between gender and climate change and environmental challenges.
all the research and data shows that it is mainly women and children who are the victims of conflict, climate change and disputes over natural resources.
on the other hand, the full and equal participation of women in political and financial decision-making, including those related to sustainable development and the fight against climate change, has a significant impact on the positive effects of the actions undertaken.
mr president, dear commissioner dalli, dear secretary of state, climate emergency is our reality, as well as gender inequality and both are intrinsically linked.
when we take gender—responsive climate action, we further close gender inequalities.
when we have more women in decision—making, we have better, more effective decisions also on climate mitigation and when we empower women, especially in indigenous communities, we protect mother nature.
but we still are far from reaching equality and climate neutrality.
the paramount challenge today is climate change, a threat hanging over our heads, but especially over the heads of women.
the major international summits must develop concrete proposals and strategies to support women in the face of climate change, so that they are not forced to migrate, facing violence, exploitation, denied access to rights and health services, including sexual and reproductive health.
we need to give girls opportunities to study in stem subjects, which are the future of climate change management.
women and girls must be agents of change and drivers of sustainable solutions when it comes to climate change, environmental degradation and disasters.
together, we will continue to push for a human rights based and gender responsive approach towards climate change based on the actions laid down in the european green deal.
let us build a world of equality where more women and more girls can speak up and act as role models as part of a positive contribution towards fighting climate change.
the 66th session of the un commission on the status of women provides an opportunity for global discussion to identify challenges and formulate commitments to be implemented in promoting gender equality and women's empowerment in the context of climate change and environmental disasters.
actions towards climate neutrality and fossil energy independence will need to take into account specific gender needs, so that the opportunities emerging in the green transition are equally beneficial and accessible.
a renewed commitment to the fight to remove the structural and cultural barriers that generate unequal participation of women in decision-making, labour markets and pay gaps will provide equal opportunities to contribute to a sustainable and inclusive economy, and to the prosperity and well-being of societies.
according to un figures, an average of 21.5 million people have been displaced annually since 2010 as a result of natural disasters arising from climate change.
climate change is affecting women proportionately more.
in addition, women are still underrepresented in national decision-making bodies on climate change, and represent only 32% of the renewable energy workforce worldwide.
finally, we need to make extra efforts to ensure that women play a more prominent role in climate policy.
the standard is also expected to be revised if transport is included in a future carbon pricing mechanism.
but the users, the payers, deserve in return that the money they contribute funds transport support programs, sustainable transport, from incentives to renew the fleet, to investments in infrastructure.
mr president, the european union may well try to paint its policies green and claim marked reductions in environmental impacts.
it is the large economic and financial groups which, by determining and benefiting from these policies, rub their hands with the prospects of profit far removed from any concern for the environment.
the impact of road transport on greenhouse gas emissions is undeniable.
it also incorporates an unacceptable dimension subject to the perverse system of emissions trading.
climate change experts warn that warming will lead to more evapotranspiration in the mediterranean region and that the available water reserves will be smaller, with situations like the current one recurring more frequently.
we also work to ensure that the most vulnerable and poorest populations are not affected any more and we oppose the unfeasible absorption target assigned to spain in the new proposal for the utcuts regulation, which does not take into account the impacts of climate change.
we must also use all our diplomatic energy to stop the senseless bloodshed in ukraine as soon as possible.
but what we're seeing here in the context of this price movement, what's happening in the energy market, is deep black clouds moving towards europe.
the first concerns energy prices, which are now going through the roof.
of course, emissions trading also contributes to the rise in energy and gas prices.
this proves once again to me - and i think to us too - that the member states are better able to take control of their own energy supply and to guarantee it themselves.
according to the official figures of the international energy agency, the energy multinationals are going to make 200 billion extra profits, profits.
madam chair, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to support this eighth environmental action programme.
it's been brought up here a few times in the debate, our planet is dying, there's massive climate change, we need to find solutions.
i can only hope that in practice these solutions will not lead to the deterioration of european industry and the energy poverty of our citizens.
in times of uncertainty, darkness and turbulence, we sometimes need to remember what kind of society we are passionate about: a just, sustainable, democratic society.
today we are voting on our eighth environmental action programme.
by 2050, the eu will be living in a climate-neutral society within planetary boundaries, and well before then emissions will be significantly reduced.
we're going to live in a fully circular economy with high biodiversity and a non-toxic environment.
we also clarify our 2030 milestones for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and phasing out hazardous chemicals.
madam chair, we live in extremely critical times with the threat of global war and pandemics, which unfortunately puts climate change on the back burner.
and now, more than ever, is the time to really separate economic development from resource exploitation and environmental destruction.
despite having the most ambitious environmental policy in the world, the european economy bears €55 billion in health and other environmental costs every year because of the failure to implement environmental regulations and directives.
our efforts must therefore be directed towards implementation and monitoring of results, and this eighth union environment action programme offers us just that, it contains a strong mechanism to monitor the implementation of environmental policies and provides guidelines for achieving the sustainable development goals, while protecting the social well-being of our citizens.
it's also important that we support this program because by doing so, we support the right to live in a healthy environment and a sustainable economy.
– madam president, honourable members, i am grateful for the opportunity we had today to discuss once more the eighth environmental action programme (eap), and i would like to thank all of you for your interventions.
our citizens, in particular the youngest, expect us to address the climate and environmental crisis.
it focuses our energy and attention, and rightly so.
but the immense threat caused by climate change and by the destruction of our ecosystems remain and the war and its impact make our fight against this crisis even more relevant and more urgent than before.
the need to review our tax system, the commitment to move to a well-being economy and environmental governance are all extremely important.
we have to be clear that more subsidies for fossil fuels means less funds for other priorities – social policies, job creation, improving quality of life, including by better environment and less pollution.
at the same time, those people are most exposed to environmental degradation and pollution.
for fossil fuel subsidies, we will continue on the path set out in the governance regulation and the climate law.
the commission is preparing an implementing act for the integrated national energy and climate progress report, which member states will have to submit every two years starting from 15 march 2023. the eap plan for adoption this year will also include a methodology for reporting on the phase out of energy subsidies, in particular for fossil fuels.
beyond gdp does not mean we do not care about people’s income, about energy or other forms of poverty.
the beyond gdp narrative and the commission has developed many new indicators in recent years to measure progress, especially on well-being and planetary boundaries, and the sustainable development goals are now being mainstreamed in all policy cycles, including the upcoming european semester spring package.
for over a hundred years, european workers have been fighting for a better working environment.
but we can do much better, and that is why i see today's vote on the seven-year european strategy on working conditions as a light in the dark - a path to a better working environment for all.
it gives flexibility, but it is really important that we ensure access to the good working environment at home.
work environment is a good investment.
it may be worth investing in a good working environment.
with this report we have a solid basis for making good european legislation that improves the working environment for the whole of the eu.
i know that parliament gives its continued support and commitment to deliver on a healthy, safe and well-adapted work environment in europe, and this commission shares this commitment and will continue to work with you on its implementation.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
before moving on to the debate, i would like to give the floor to mr moretti, pursuant to rule 59 (4), in view of the fact that the report by mr bonafè on batteries and waste batteries has been referred back to the committee for institutional negotiations.
madam president, commissioner, as you have said, the social and environmental impacts of the textile sector are no longer to be demonstrated.
and as consumers, we are often unaware that by wearing these clothes, we are also experiencing the effects of endocrine disruptors and other substances harmful to health and the environment.
regulating the textile sector is therefore one of the keys to achieving the european green deal and the sustainable development goals.
the european strategy for sustainable textiles must drastically reduce the ecological and social footprint of the sector and, above all, apply to all companies, including smes, which make up the majority of the sector.
and it could be even crazier: nuclear energy the clean, cheap, reliable alternative is being phased out in germany, and in belgium, well-functioning nuclear power plants are being replaced by polluting gas plants.
following the russian invasion of ukraine, the european union has worked to address russia's high energy dependence and the associated alarming price increases, as well as to ensure energy security and supply.
the socialists in parliament argue for the need for solutions to tackle rising energy prices, and in particular electricity prices.
these solutions include accelerating the deployment of indigenous renewable energies and short-term measures to decouple the price of gas from electricity.
at the same time, we must diversify our energy supplies and eliminate our energy dependence on russia.
but to take advantage of these existing energy infrastructures, the union needs to increase energy interconnections between the iberian peninsula and france.
let's raise the climate goals.
let's take publicly the transition to achieve the social climate revolution.
every child has the right to grow up in a secure environment, to play, to learn, and to have prospects for a peaceful future.
psychological support and a safe social environment - that's what traumatized children need now.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the best way to protect ukrainian children and youth would be to adopt very tough sanctions at the european council this week on energy resources and not to feed the russian car the war machine.
because it is extremely important to maintain an educational, youth cultural space in the ukrainian environment.
we've said it before here: it is heartwarming to see how across europe, organisations, volunteers and communities are standing by for these refugees, how young children are sharing their cuddles and toys with ukrainian peers, how empty strollers are standing by at stations for fleeing mothers with small children and how schools are doing everything possible to provide a warm environment for fleeing children.
finally, we need to move structurally to a completely different model of asylum that is feasible, humane and sustainable.
and if there is a lesson that we should learn from these crises, it is that we need more unity and more sharing: the unity of defence, energy, health, the defense also of food sovereignty that we need, the digital.
we also need to ensure that our citizens will receive the necessary support in dealing with the overall economic and social consequences of the war, since the explosion of energy prices, higher inflation and lower growth will inevitably continue to push poverty upwards and fuel more inequality.
this is about the impact on energy prices.
we will pursue all avenues to consolidate our energy security.
we are working on energy efficiency.
we are putting energy diplomacy into a higher gear.
i have also heard criticisms of the pressure being put on russia, and many parliamentarians, many of you have asked for more to be done, particularly in the field of energy, which is certainly our achilles' heel, our vulnerable point, russia's wealth.
we've learned that the cheapest energy isn't what it seems.
that the easiest energy is not the one that is closest.
and the safest energy is not the one supplied by our less reliable countries.
because, even if it is cheap when you buy it, if the one who sells it to you uses the money you pay to build a military capacity that later uses against you or against your friends and forces you to make a military expenditure to compensate this aggression, then that energy is no longer the cheapest, because to the cost of purchase you have to add the cost of precaution, and that is what we have happened with russia.
because putin has built his military empire thanks to the energy sources he has sold us and has been doing so systematically for many years.
his energy is not cheap.
his energy is going very expensive.
because when a country has a very strong energy dependence, it cannot cancel it overnight.
from the energy point of view, russian supplies put more pressure on germany than on spain.
every unit of energy saved is also a way to help win this war.
gas consumers everywhere are looking for ways to switch to green energy, to district heating.
it was also found that russian money was flowing to environmental groups and parties to stop the extraction of shale gas and to keep the eu dependent.
for decades we have been poisoning our environment, and therefore ourselves, with chemicals that will remain toxic for ever.
it is crucial that we ensure that our raw material streams, including recycled waste, are completely safe.
mr president, a sustainable environmental policy is one which is committed to a pollution-free environment and which always takes account of human health.
today, the european parliament is voting on the action plan to develop organic production in the european union, which is based on two european strategies: 'from the farm to the table' and 'biodiversity'.
everyone is affected, we have price explosions without end, energy prices are rising, we have huge, galloping inflation, and we must also do and respond much more at european level, i think.
we have to ensure that security of supply is guaranteed - it has been raised - with a view to stabilizing our energy supply, raw materials, food.
all the scenarios are dictated by the eu strategy of energy liberalisation, green transition, desalination and the trading of pollutants, which had driven up prices and energy poverty months before the war and served all the governments in greece.
the only way out is the popular struggle for substantial relief measures, the abolition of indirect taxes on the energy market, the immediate and full re-opening of lignite plants, with a lifting of sanctions against russia.
and i want to reassure you that we in the commission are also very much concerned by the high energy prices and we are looking into all opportunities on how to tackle them and how to use all the possibilities we have at our disposal.
and as i’m sure you know – and the rapporteur knows these figures by heart – almost eur 180 billion, eur 177 billion precisely, is geared towards climate goals, which, of course, today are a purpose for making sure that we would lower our dependence on russia.
we would increase the proportion of renewable energy in our systems and in that way, subsequently lower the prices.
of course, much remains to be done to limit the impact on our economies, labour markets and societies and to consolidate inclusive and sustainable growth.
at the same time, energy, arms and agro-multinationals are increasingly profitable.
and what we need to do is turn to nuclear energy, to our own resources, to conventional gas, to shale gas, everything we have to have a normal economy, and not to be dependent on hostile third countries, on the one hand, or green utopias.
mr president, commissioner, a grand european plan for energy, and who is being forgotten?
on the contrary, you even say that your policy will raise energy prices even further.
and you're sacrificing the climate.
you've decided to release millions of tons of co2 as part of the carbon market.
this means sacrificing both social and climate.
as far as the social climate fund is concerned, i fully support esther de lange and david casa’s proposal to support the population in need without adding burden to the households as the energy crisis is up and running.
we need this mechanism in relation to the carbon prices without jeopardising the competitiveness of the sectors involved.
we need to show to our citizens who struggle today with the energy crisis that we send a clear message to all these who are abiding with eu values and that we bring solutions to raised problems while we stand united toward the achievement of europe’s strategic objectives.
it is an opportunity for the european union to strengthen its commitment to combating climate change by ensuring, through concrete and wide-ranging measures, a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions of at least 55% by 2030. the integrated and progressive implementation of these measures is also a way to boost the modernisation of european society and the economy and to consolidate the union's leadership in the energy and digital transition.
as the socialists and democrats' shadow rapporteur on the negotiation of the itre border carbon adjustment mechanism, i consider it essential that this mechanism fulfils its role of promoting and supporting the decarbonisation agenda of european industry, while encouraging transformation and innovation dynamics that lead it to higher levels of sustainability and competitiveness.
it will also encourage the adoption of good environmental practices in other parts of the world, thus contributing to a positive partnership on behalf of common objectives.
a uachtaráin, the climate law is set in stone: the end point of the green transition – 2050 for climate neutrality.
europe is and should be a climate leader.
if we overburden ourselves, that will be a net negative consequence for the climate, as we will have less ability to pay for the technologies needed for the transition.
i fully support the targets for 2030 to transition to climate neutrality, and i believe this can only be successfully achieved if based on pragmatism.
i think that is a great start, because we need europe to work and we need a sustainable transition to a climate neutral europe.
we need investment security for new industrial investment in europe and we can do this because we are finally getting the carbon levy mechanism in place.
the coal mechanism will no longer allow europe to turn a blind eye to the fact that we use steel produced elsewhere and do not look at its emissions here.
to continue on the path to a climate-neutral continent, we must be ambitious and social.
a more comprehensive emissions trading system, a carbon tax on our european external border and climate neutral vehicles.
exorbitant increases in energy prices, the effects of the war in ukraine and higher post-corona prices are hitting low-income and lower middle-income earners the hardest.
climate transition should be for everyone, not just those who can afford it.
that is why the social climate fund is so important.
because, colleagues, the climate transition will be social or it will not be.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the climate challenge is also a social and democratic challenge.
democratic because if we leave a whole range of people on the sidelines, whether they are the weakest in our society, those who don't have the means somewhere to commit to climate through a whole range of measures and investments, we will miss this goal, both climate and democratically.
the social climate fund must therefore be greatly, greatly increased to meet these needs, and so that every european citizen can play a part in this climate issue.
to set an example in terms of investment, planting, combating global warming and supporting the various private owners.
if you want, because then they say: ‘well, it’s not just about the car manufacturers, it’s about this whole ecosystem of suppliers that are part of that’.
if you at least also incorporate in your analysis our plans on rooftop solar, our plans on offshore wind, our plans on creating much, much more opportunity for renewable energy.
and these are sustainable batteries, recyclable batteries.
some of you have cited the paris climate agreement, which sets an ambition and an imperative for us to keep the average global temperature rise over this century well below two degrees celsius.
the annual un climate change meeting in bonn began yesterday with the aim of preparing for the cop 27 in sharm el-sheikh, and the european union is once again demonstrating its ability to tackle the most complex political issues through this debate.
the strengthening of international cooperation in the field of carbon pricing, for example through the establishment of a climate club alongside the border carbon adjustment mechanism, or carbon pricing policies could be discussed and encouraged.
as president of the council, i can confirm our determination to go even further by striking the right balance between protecting the climate and protecting our societies, particularly in economic matters.
we need to protect our biodiversity and improve our carbon sequestration through carbon sinks.
and of course, we need to invest massively to make the energy transition and reduce our carbon footprint.
i want to make it clear here, at the end of this debate, that the energy transition is necessary and should not be seen as a constraint.
many of you have mentioned the importance of energy sovereignty.
the french presidency has worked and continues to work tirelessly for our energy independence and to make the european union more climate-aware.
the pollution load is particularly high in urban environments.
therefore, the pollution load from cars should be minimised.
i think it is very necessary to encourage the use of electric cars, especially in urban environments with high pollution levels.
at the same time, the pollution load dissipates on the roads with little traffic and poses no danger to human health.
today we are voting on the commission's proposal to reduce co2 emissions from cars and vans to reach 100% of the zero-emission fleet by 2035, in other words to 'go all-electric' by then.
this is an environmental mistake because it does not allow other technologies to develop and because the entire battery production cycle would not be taken into account in the co2 calculation.
i can only appeal to you to do everything in your power to bring about peace, a policy which will ensure the security of energy supplies to the european citizens on our continent, and to put an end to this spiral of escalation.
today, the european union is facing its greatest geostrategic challenge, which in turn generates a huge security crisis, with humanitarian crises as its collateral, an energy crisis and a food crisis.
its economic sanctions are leading to rising energy prices, skyrocketing inflation and collective impoverishment.
finally, trade and economic partnership agreements must take account of developments in the local economy, regional integration, economic diversification and, above all, the objectives of sustainable development.
– madam president, colleagues, commissioner, if the eu wants to play its role as a global actor, it has to promote rules—based trade and show by example that trade agreements deliver, bring peoples together and raise the standards worldwide on safety of labour, sustainable development goals and human rights.
however, demographic change, population ageing, as well as climate change and mitigation reforms will exacerbate the pressure on the sector.
finally, there is a need to ensure rapid and equal access to high quality care services for people of all generations and to support carers through, inter alia, wage increases, contract adjustments and recognition of the physical and psychological burdens of the environment.
and we are driven in many areas not by normally functioning markets, but by incredible speculative movements, which has pushed food and energy up.
and when you look at the inflation, it’s mainly pushed by the price hikes of energy and food beside the causes i’ve mentioned on the value chains.
but what we know, by the way, is that due to the war, climate change is continuing.
climate change does not wait, it’s just there.
we are ready to support their purchasing power, the way how they have to try to make ends meet, as it has been said by colleagues, but also to have companies who will be affected by the fact that they have energy problems, the prices, but also perhaps the supply of fundamental energy will be blocked specially by the russians.
it’s the fact that markets are overshooting due to speculation and when the oecd international energy agency considers that about 200 billion special windfall profits have been produced by the fact that markets are not rationally behaving any more – and some certainly take their advantage out of this – then i think we have to draw the right consequences from that and not put into question now the green deal, which is an issue which we cannot escape from.
let’s have in mind that this price increase crisis has some of its roots in the energy sector and that its price hikes are partially linked to the overall uncertainty on the market, which is constantly nurtured by the russian war of aggression.
our common goal should be to bring predictability and certainty to our energy providers’ back.
that is why our regulatory framework is developing so fast, and you all mentioned them: the repowereu plan, fit for 55 package and also the taxonomy climate delegated act, which this house is going to vote on tomorrow are a few of the many examples.
we will continue this discussion also in the context of the debate on taxing the windfall profits of energy companies, which i look forward to, but already now i would like to reassure you that the council will do its utmost in line with its competences to tackle this unprecedented challenge.
we call on the member states and the commission to take ambitious measures that demonstrate their determination to ensure a decent standard of living, sustainable and inclusive growth and upward social convergence.
in times of crisis, only a renewed focus on europe's integrated social, environmental and economic project will ensure its future success.
we socialists are committed to a different recovery, one that prioritises progress and social justice, social and civil dialogue and respect for fundamental social rights as the basis for the ecological and digital transitions.
we put hungary's energy security and the future of hungarian families first.
we call on the member states and the commission to take ambitious measures that demonstrate their determination to ensure a decent standard of living, sustainable and inclusive growth and upward social convergence.
in times of crisis, only a renewed focus on europe's integrated social, environmental and economic project will ensure its future success.
we socialists are committed to a different recovery, one that prioritises progress and social justice, social and civil dialogue and respect for fundamental social rights as the basis for the ecological and digital transitions.
the european economy has not yet recovered from the pandemic crisis, but it is once again being hit hard by rising inflation, rising energy and fuel prices, and higher prices on store shelves, which are driving up the cost of living.
we all recognise the important role of the social economy in our economies and societies, as it puts fairness and sustainability as its core values.
today, our societies face major social, environmental, democratic and economic challenges.
they also drive sustainable economic and industrial development, promoting the active participation of citizens in our societies, and revitalise europe’s rural and depopulated areas.
in particular, you share the commission’s view that policymakers and stakeholders need to work on improving all aspects of the social economy ecosystem jointly.
your ideas on the scope of the future council recommendation on developing social economy framework conditions; your call for the role of the social economy to be fully recognised in the context of other policies and future initiatives, such as the care strategy we discussed this morning; your suggestions on our future study to collect qualitative and quantitative information on the social economy across all member states; your consideration for the transition pathway for the proximity and social economy industrial ecosystem which is under preparation; and your call for new initiatives to support the development of worker buy outs.
social economy can play a decisive role to support the shift to a sustainable and resilient growth model, as proposed by the conference on the future of europe.
we no longer have time to waste words by adding commas to reports which ultimately have only one objective: to keep the commission in line while the purchasing power of the french is declining.
we do not agree that the wealth that the social economy can bring, the creativity that has yet to be developed or the potential are affected by an imposition, by a requirement to align or condition these projects to the objectives of other agendas, such as the environment, or the sustainable development goals, which limit entrepreneurship in only one direction.
the action plan was needed to ensure that the sector could continue to grow in a sustainable and social way in the future.
but to mix it up and green-classify fossil energy and call it sustainable, and label your and my pension money with fossil gas as a sustainable investment that's up the walls, i think!
there's nothing sustainable about fossil gas.
every kid today knows that gas is a fossil fuel, and it's causing the climate crisis, and it's definitely not the solution.
and the extortability and energy dependence of this very thing is becoming our undoing.
every child today knows that nuclear power is dangerous to the environment and to people, and nuclear waste will burden our generations for hundreds and thousands of years to come.
and it's now clear that building nuclear reactors is too slow to stop the climate crisis, and it's too expensive, and it's much cheaper to invest in renewable energy.
we're losing valuable time and credibility on climate change.
the global crisis we face are many, whether of democratic decline, the ongoing pandemic or climate emergency.
globalisation and major challenges such as climate change, pandemics, terrorism, etc., require multilateral responses, not unilateral responses or impositions by major powers.
mr president, i want to commend the report by mr lópez, particularly the references to the sustainable development goals.
so they're obviously making excess profits on energy, but also on our caddies, on food, and so on.
they make a valuable contribution to our climate by reducing co2 emissions, if they are also managed sustainably.
however, let me stress that whenever considering additional references, we must also take into account that other legislative initiatives – in particular the corporate sustainability due diligence directive – also comprehensively address this issue, so as to avoid any duplication.
the european union has several laws already in place or under development that address the environmental responsibility of financial institutions.
in the area of sustainable finance in the sustainable finance disclosure regulation, financial market participants and financial advisers are required to disclose adverse impacts on sustainability matters at entity and financial products levels.
the revised corporate sustainability reporting directive, as well as the broader sustainable finance framework that is being put in place, will significantly improve transparency, and complement and support the legislative initiative on deforestation.
this report is of great importance, and it is important to support it so that the world's forests remain a source of biodiversity, livelihoods and life for all.
we are facing the challenge of responding to a serious economic crisis that has caused a pandemic and a very serious energy crisis that is causing excessive price increases, inflation and a wild belicism.
too low interest rates, too high debt, too high taxes and too big a government, combined with irresponsible climate and energy policies.
mr president, thank you, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for 500 years europe has not known a drought like today's, which has caused fires, affected the energy sector, but above all the agricultural sector.
drought, rising energy and fertilizer prices, and the uncontrolled flow of large quantities of grain from ukraine to european union countries, sold at unbelievably low prices, are putting pressure on the agricultural sector.
combating drought requires investment in technologies that enable sustainable water management, and that is what european money is for, commissioner.
support farmers by compensating them, of course, but above all by accompanying them to have a comprehensive strategy on food, on agriculture, in a positive environment and agriculture axis.
show younger girls that politics is also a place for them – a place where they can be themselves and work on serious topics like energy, climate, security and so on.
the number of working poor will unfortunately only increase in the coming years due to the effects of the pandemic, inflation and high energy prices.
our europe, as you have rightly stressed, must open a convention to reform itself, to abandon the right of veto, to finally have the powers necessary to protect our citizens from war, from inflation, with the european roof on energy costs, which is still blocked by the nationalist right in poland and by the ultra-liberal right in the netherlands.
the more united we are on all issues - energy prices, the recovery and competitiveness of our european economy, social compensation and the creation of a hydrogen market - the faster we will overcome the challenges ahead.
i thank you for your proposals to deal with the energy price crisis.
you spoke a lot about energy, and rightly so.
and one final request, maybe not to put the clocks back this winter to save energy.
we did that during the coronavirus, and now the inflation and energy crisis are threatening.
my message today is therefore very simple: the inflation and energy crises must not be a stopgap for the green transition.
it is also time that we show that unity in the face of the climate crisis.
you have also proposed very concrete and short-term measures in the energy sector.
yes, you dared to propose, and it was quite right, to make the large energy companies contribute, which have benefited from the elements and colossal budgets spontaneously, without any real costs associated with these companies.
and finally, and most importantly, it is essential to have laid the foundations for a european strategy to achieve greater sovereignty, energy autonomy.
what we are trying to avoid, to correct through this taxation of excess profits, is simply because companies in the field of renewable energy or nuclear energy have made colossal profits without any cost justification.
- ladies and gentlemen, inflation is soaring, energy is becoming unaffordable and the economy is in danger of falling into a deep crisis.
the factory of tata steel, where the workers were able to work thanks to a 24-day long strike, forced the company not only to keep jobs, but also to invest in the climate transition by saying: "we are going to replace coal with green water for the production of steel".
good for the climate, good for jobs and for the future of industry in europe.
and i want to encourage others, including the european commission, that by reducing the burdens on families and businesses you are creating an economic climate that brings and incentivises more growth and more economic strength.
let us assume that the energy market is a failure and that opening up this sector to competition is one of the worst decisions taken and imposed by the european union on the member states.
this market allows, in times of crisis, for some energy companies to produce electricity at €40 per megawatt to sell it quietly at €1,000 per megawatt, for maximum profit for shareholders, at the expense of millions of people who will no longer be able to pay heating bills and who are shamefully asked to wear a collar if they are cold in winter.
what we need is to fully recover our ability to make our own decisions in the energy field.
we must move away from the european energy market to a public energy hub whose action will be dictated solely by the general interest.
public management that protects the most vulnerable, that plans according to needs, that uses the revenues from production to deploy renewable energy, that defends our energy sovereignty against foreign powers.
energy is a common good that should no longer be monopolized and that we must manage and protect.
here's an example of how it should be done: the pilot project will also provide information on the impact of the accessibility of the internet on the health of citizens and the environment, as well as on the impact of the use of the internet on the health of citizens and the environment.
this has not been in return for any political concession in the conflict and i am sure the europeans will appreciate that in the present circumstances the president of the commission, herself, has travelled to azerbaijan to negotiate this agreement, which offers the possibility that this winter all europeans as a whole will have the necessary energy supply.
in any case, i can assure you that this energy agreement has not been to the detriment of any human rights or democratic problems that have arisen in that country.
and this is very concrete what needs to be done – returning of all prisoners of war – that was the resolution of the european parliament, the goal was to stop all hostilities, achieving a clear demarcation of border and finding a sustainable resolution of the karabakh conflict.
moreover, our growing energy dependence on azerbaijan, with the new gas contracts, certainly gives azerbaijan a stronger geopolitical position.
my question, mr borrell, is this: do you think that, in these circumstances, we still have enough influence over azerbaijan to try to mediate and achieve a just, lasting and sustainable agreement?
mr president, the countries of our political environment are invited to this meeting by the president of the council.
illegal annexation, sabotage of pipelines, use of energy as a weapon against our citizens and our industrial fabric.
that we will seize this crisis to accelerate the energy transition and ensure our energy independence.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, the revision of the sustainable development chapters in trade treaties is a significant step, it must be acknowledged, towards more sustainable international trade, involving civil society and parliament more closely and setting out mechanisms for implementation and monitoring and sanctions for non-compliance with the provisions contained therein.
another dimension that was highlighted during the various exchanges was the issue of human rights, which is not part of the chapters on sustainable development.
we believe that this is a fundamental shortcoming, since it is well known that, unfortunately, many human rights violations still occur in the commercial environment.
i think that would be a real and substantial complement to this revision of the sustainable development chapters in our trade agreements.
secondly, trade agreements, our trade agreements, are a lever for human rights, a lever for decent working conditions, a lever for sustainability.
in the field of sustainability - indeed - we must beware of a single approach to our various partner countries.
– madam president, ‘end poverty in all its forms everywhere’ is the first of the 17 un sustainable development goals.
the combined impacts of russia’s war of aggression towards ukraine and of climate change may be further detrimental if we do not take bold measures to support the most vulnerable, but also those households that are suffering from skyrocketing energy price increases without seeing their income being adapted to this evolution.
we need to continue to tackle the source of the soaring energy prices, which are driving high inflation.
addressing energy poverty is a key part of the approach to the fight against poverty.
the commission recently put forward a regulation on an emergency intervention to address high energy prices which sets a revenue cap on companies that produce electricity at a lower cost.
therefore, the eu should be at the forefront of building a fair, just and sustainable world economy that eradicates poverty.
the cost of living in the form of energy, housing and food is skyrocketing.
we must also give our full support to future dossiers on a social climate fund, platform workers and pay transparency.
i see that the transport sector is working very hard to achieve that sustainable future, but it cannot happen overnight.
we must now do what is necessary to make the energy supply for the transport sector future-proof.
mr president, madam commissioner, rapporteur and colleagues, in order to reach our climate targets, we must work to decarbonise the transport sector, as we know it is the only sector where emissions have increased.
there are also challenges, as we know, regarding the availability of renewable maritime fuels.
it is vital that we progressively increase the share of low-carbon fuels, respect technology neutrality and ensure necessary incentives for funding research and development in this area.
there are good examples, like renewable hydrogen from nonbiological sources like solar panels, that is expected to play a key strategic role in the decarbonisation of the generally hard-to-decarbonise transport sector.
shipping accounts for 13% of co2 emissions from transport and is an unprecedented nuisance when it comes to air quality.
not to make gas and lng another energy transition.
we will not achieve our carbon neutrality goals with fossil fuels.
it's easy: let's get off gas, especially the energy mix.
and according to my opinion, i strongly believe that we have managed to propose a piece of legislation that focuses on reducing shipping’s climate impact while encouraging and accelerating investments in that direction.
the current approach now fully reflects the ‘polluter pays’ principle, which was established under the treaty of the functioning of the european union, constitutes the fundamental stone of our eu environmental legislation.
therefore, the application of the polluter pays principle shall not be subject of contractual negotiations, but an unquestionable eu environmental principle that must be respected by all relevant stakeholders.
we are at a crossroads today: this legislation will set the course for the next decades in the field of mobility, and is an important step towards an energy-independent europe, based on green renewable sources.
having an adequate number of efficient and easy charging points is the most correct way to make our will to achieve the objectives of the climate law and repowereu really feasible and tangible.
for a clean europe, an energy self-sufficient europe, a stronger europe.
because no single winning option is on the horizon, all players in the sector will have to contribute, from operators, who are subject to strict obligations, to ports, who will have to install shore-side power infrastructure, to suppliers of sustainable fuels, to the shipyards, which require creativity and innovation.
the compromise we are about to vote on represents, in my view, a good balance between the opposing extremes, between those who do not consider social costs and impacts and those who seem to ignore the climate crisis.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting this week on two proposals for regulations, both on maritime and infrastructure, which are central to meeting the 2050 climate targets.
as regards the regulation on low-emission renewable fuels for the shipping sector, i am again in favour of making the transition with and not against industry.
the savings we are told will be made in indirect pollution costs and operational improvements must be applied to innovation.
this opens up a huge opportunity for european shipbuilding to consolidate our global leadership in sustainable solutions for this mode of transport.
you know very well that the price hike race started in the fall of 2021. the green transition strategy promoted by the european union and all governments, by imposing the energy market, its liberalisation, trade in pollutants, green fees and desalination, is therefore at stake.
while the energy groups are feeding off wild profits, subsidies and all kinds of tax breaks, the idea of a windfall tax is a joke.
the second: energy savings are still in the centre.
issuer energy savings and quick build—up of new clean, effective resources is the best way how to reduce the risk and reduce the costs.
mr president, well, it’s our duty to back ukraine against the terrorist putin’s regime, but it is also our duty to protect and support our citizens and our companies in this energy crisis.
president, ladies and gentlemen, this energy crisis is not happening to us by accident.
ecological dogmatism has led to the closure of nuclear power stations.
energy prices are exploding, which is exactly what gives putin more money to fund his horrific war machine.
a flemish family is already paying four times as much for energy.
furthermore, a thorough reform of energy markets is needed to reduce our dependence on russia and fossil fuels in general.
decades of inflation and price increases, coupled with skyrocketing energy prices, threaten to cause enormous losses and economic downturn.
the reality is that our people and small businesses cannot afford to pay their outgoing energy bills and most of them are at risk of poverty.
it is not justified that energy companies calculate a profit margin when the bill for ordinary consumers has increased tenfold.
manipulation of the energy market must be prevented and unjustified profits must be distributed to support those most in need.
we must protect our food production sector and we cannot allow our people or our companies to become creditors to energy companies.
the greens want to continue to allow large multinationals to keep half of their profits, while the european commission is already satisfied with a one-off tax on a small third of energy profits.
and on energy policy, the commission has done a lot, and the council has to take those decisions too.
they may not be complete, but if they are not adopted, there is no point in talking about the convention on the future of europe or similar topics, because it is pointless if short-term energy policy decisions cannot be taken.
madam president, commissioner, minister, dear colleagues, it is clear that the people of europe are expecting from us solutions to the problems that they are facing – energy insecurity, inflation, high prices.
this is why, commissioner, we are welcoming the proposals put forward by president von der leyen in the area of energy.
the most urgent remains energy prices.
madam president, commissioner, minister, my plea today on the energy crisis is very simple.
mr president, in antwerp a mother and daughter died of carbon monoxide poisoning because they were heating their home with a barbecue.
so invest fully in research and development, innovation and sustainable growth.
instead, implement deep reforms that cost nothing but ensure sustainable growth.
the pandemic has shown us how urgent it is to protect these important sectors, which are vital for europe - health, food, energy - from cyberattacks, among other things.
i think that as far as our independence is concerned - a form of sovereignty that can be found at european level in such important sectors as energy, digital, food, health and i would even add defence - we must go further to avoid any dependence in the future.
it will drive economic growth, i have no doubt about it: smart, innovative, sustainable and inclusive growth.
it's a waste that should not be allowed to continue.
that is not sustainable and i have therefore tabled a resolution, a resolution which seeks to resolve the matter once and for all.
my party has been pushing for years for the completion of the internal market, including the energy market.
we are also seeing today the consequences of the lack of energy corridors.
finally, i would like to stress that it is unacceptable for us to abandon the stable form of energy which is nuclear energy.
that doesn't mean there's no biodiversity problem, of course.
mr president, europe has been too dependent on imported energy for far too long and we are now seeing where this has led, with a huge energy shortage throughout europe.
we must now urgently step up investment and invest in all low-emission sources of energy, including nuclear power, and accelerate investment in energy transmission and storage.
in addition, in my own country, finland, citizens also have a very wide right to appeal against investment decisions, and therefore it is important that member states also put enough resources into the judiciary so that the judiciary can quickly deal with various complaints and these necessary building investments can be launched, because energy is needed now.
and he still believes that he can use energy to weaken us and to bring us to our knees.
we need to rapidly increase europe’s energy sovereignty.
we can no longer be dependent on outside energy resources which come with political strings attached.
we need to rapidly reduce our energy consumption.
we need to diversify our energy resourcing – as much as we still need fossil fuels – and diversify it in such a way that not one external party can use that energy as a political weapon to weaken us or to influence us.
and they should get the support also in a way that leads us to be stronger and more sovereign in the energy field so we can rebuild ukraine together with them once this aggression is over.
dear s&d, no one here wants to eliminate environmental laws.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
the rapid and efficient increase in capacity for clean and renewable energy is crucial to achieving the objectives of the paris agreement.
the rapid transition to renewable energy is also a necessary part of europe's decoupling from russian fossil fuels.
i am therefore pleased that parliament supports the acceleration and streamlining of the administrative and licensing processes for renewable energy production facilities and the more accelerated process of the 'go-to' areas for renewable energy sources.
however, it is also important to take account of the new energy facilities that are being built, which is why it is great that the european parliament has supported the idea that natura 2000 nature reserves or ecological corridors cannot be considered as areas of rapid development of renewable energy.
this is important to safeguard biodiversity and ecosystem services.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european environment agency.
the legislative document we are debating today and voting on tomorrow, adapting the processes for realising the repowereu initiative to the new challenges we are facing in the field of energy transition, is of enormous importance.
it is essential to combine a strong response to the emergency and the impacts of war and russian blackmail on the access of european households and businesses to energy with continued union leadership in the fight against climate change.
some people want to use this window of opportunity to stop the energy transition, the green deal and decarbonisation.
voting on this report, without any last-minute distortions, will be to affirm a strong commitment between speeding up the ability to respond to people's immediate needs and consolidating the principles and objectives of environmental sustainability of the planet.
engaging national and regional authorities more and better, enhancing people's participation as enshrined in the energy union governance regulation, speeding up decision-making processes without breaking down transparency and defeating bureaucracy are key steps to living up to our mandate and serving those who elected us to be the voice of their problems and the promoter of the answers they need.
this means common actions, solidarity in gas supply, and the creation of the credible energy single market.
but we also need to be clear: our surest way of achieving full energy independence is by speeding up our green transition and this has become just as much about security as it is about climate ambition.
prime minister, with two-thirds of slovenia’s power generation being co2-free and by further pledging to increase the use of renewable energy by 2030, your country is already showing leadership in this field.
what is more, by increasing interconnections with its neighbours, slovenia is well on track to improve its energy resilience.
not just the energy crisis, not just the energy prices, all of these things have led to the fact that we are now facing an economic crisis and, above all, rising prices in all areas and record inflation.
i will be focusing most of my time - given my background - on energy and green transition, the green transition.
dear ladies, dear gentlemen, let me give you just a brief background on myself in order to fully understand why i will address energy as the major topic during my speech.
for the last 15 years, i was working at an energy company: a company that i founded and was running as ceo; a company that grew from zero to 3 billion in revenue; a company that was the largest energy trader in southern and eastern europe; a company that grew from zero to the largest supplier of electricity in slovenia; and a company that in recent years was also the largest provider of solar power plants, meaning that we did embark on investing in renewables as well.
having said that, let's switch to the main topic, and that is energy.
it's totally clear to everyone that over-dependence on one gas source, which is from russia, led to the weaponization of that particular energy source during the last year, and that we are facing the consequences of that weaponization right now.
but even though the lack of supply was rightly addressed by the swift action of both the parliament and the commission during the last weeks meaning that just by combining the three factors which is being able to reduce demand, being able to find new sources from friendly countries and being able to keep the pipelines open throughout europe by implementing the solidarity clause, we were able to cover for the energy needs it was not enough to address the prices.
so either we address properly the high energy prices and when i say properly it means decisively, and when i say decisively, we need to implement regulatory changes in the market mechanisms because the internal energy market at the moment, i will not say it is not working, i will say is being worked by the speculative money, but for their own profits and not for the benefits of the population of europe.
the energy ministers are sitting in the council today and i certainly hope and urge that they will come to a common decision by whatever means in order to show the unity not to the population but to the markets, because we need to show the unity to the speculative traders and, remember, i made my living doing that, so i know what i'm talking about.
it does improve and it does bring autonomy, independence, energy independence to europe.
it is the only way to energy independence.
it does mitigate climate change because that's the only way how to reduce the impact of energy on climate.
and it also, at the end of the day, brings lower energy prices.
and if we act boldly and decisively and if we link the wind potential of the north with some potential of the south put some hydro in the mix and some storage in between yeah, in the next 10 to 15 years, we could be totally renewable in europe.
and for that reason, not just because of the energy crisis that we're facing now, we really owe it, we owe it to our children to do it now because it's doable so there's absolutely no excuse that we wait with our next steps when it comes to that.
before entering politics, while i was still the executive, i was also the eu climate pact ambassador.
i was promoting, and sincerely promoting it, because for living i was doing energy trading but for my soul i was promoting the self-sustainable home energy systems the systems where each of us that owns a home can become totally independent on himself, on him, on hers or his energy needs, for all energy needs.
so they're not just helping the environment, at the moment they're totally independent on the energy crisis.
the one thing that we're addressing all the time when it comes to the energy transition, we're always addressing the how do we deal with the energy for our machines, for our technologies.
we're overlooking the how do we address the energy that we need to fuel our bodies, which is food.
unless we change the food production and food consumption in a very thorough way, we will not be able to meet any of the climate goals.
not just by teaching them how to be healthier, but also in teaching them how to be sustainable.
now, you said a lot about energy and about the green transition.
you are remarkable because you are the first head of government that i hear asserting that there is speculation on the energy market.
now we can have a debate about nuclear energy.
but again, this is presented in slovenia as the silver bullet that will solve all problems in energy.
i mean, if the business case for nuclear is so good, it shouldn’t be afraid of a fair and square competition in the public debate with other forms of energy.
another thing that you didn’t mention, but where slovenia is strong, i think your country is probably the european champion of biodiversity.
so i don’t understand why slovenia is not more proactive in supporting the sustainable use of pesticides regulation, because you know that there is a lot of resistance and we need support, including in the council, not just in the parliament, to make it happen.
madam president, one frenchman in three is refusing medical care, a middle class is collapsing, being dismantled and downgraded, an increasingly violent precarious situation affecting more than 11 million of my countrymen, our businesses are being relocated, social dumping is being institutionalized through seconded work, a pension reform at the age of 65 imposed by brussels, a vertiginous rise in the bankruptcies of our smes, our small businesses and our artisans, accelerated by the energy crisis, a farmer's suicide every two days, our fishermen sacrificed, french people in the dark and cold this winter, after the sabotage of our nuclear industry, in which we had invested, which was sacrificed by brussels and which ensured our energy independence, a double-digit inflation, a double-digit recession in europe, and this in the context of massive repatriation of our compatriots: immigration.
you've talked a lot about energy and the lack of energy.
all this is happening while multinational corporations are speculating unhindered on the price of energy and food.
tax the extra profits of those who speculate on food and energy - i mean large organized distribution and energy companies - to support families and children in need with this money instead; introduce a minimum wage to combat the phenomenon of the working poor; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme.
we have long denounced the wrong political and energy choices made here.
in cases such as the nord stream gas pipeline or climate policy, it is necessary to increase member states' control over the eu institutions.
agreed state aid to the extent that it is aimed at innovation, renewable energy, excellence or market failure.
faced with the failure of european liberalisation, which has failed to guarantee low energy prices, failed to guarantee the social climate transition, failed to guarantee employment, it is time to change the rules of the game, to ensure that the profit of the big multinationals is no longer the guiding principle of european political decisions.
let us publicly take up strategic sectors such as energy, transport, pharmaceuticals, digital, etc.
the reason for inflation and falling purchasing power is the skyrocketing price of energy.
this is the case, for example, in france, where nuclear power plants are being divested, whereas that country used to obtain 75% of its electricity from nuclear energy.
your inaction on the energy price freeze: we have been asking for a gas price freeze for a year.