on the other hand, the eu has grown to become kazakhstan’s largest trading partner, and it is one of our major energy suppliers.
may kazakhstan be a lesson: a strong hike in energy prices fuels protests against the government, and we need to think strategically and look out for the interests of the eu and its citizens.
an extra hike in energy prices is something our citizens cannot afford.
- updating existing legislation to integrate scientific advances in animal knowledge and technical progress in agricultural practices; - a well-functioning regulatory framework that is proportionate and does not jeopardise the competitiveness of european farmers; - an impact assessment of the proposed changes based on current scientific research and an assessment of how animals, the environment and farmers, especially smallholders, will be affected; - any change must take into account the time, support and funding required by farmers to implement it.
madam president, commissioner, energy prices have been the main contributor to the increase in inflation in recent months.
to solve this problem, we need to offer strong and unified pan-european positions when negotiating long-term supplies of energy raw materials from third countries.
we need practical and workable solutions to prevent us from falling into similar energy and price crises.
the reason, of course, is our ever-increasing life expectancy and the combination of external factors to which we are exposed: tobacco, alcohol, sedentary lifestyles and, of course, all the pollution.
of course they care about the quality of education, the experience, and we also know that more than 90 percent of young people want to address climate change.
and of course for climate action, because it's the young people who benefit the most.
there is an awful lot of money and energy being spent trying to create a european identity, but that, in my view, is doomed to failure.
we accepted these limitations knowing that they were necessary to protect the most vulnerable among us and the sustainability of our health systems.
we have agreed that reducing pollution is the key to a better and more sustainable future for our planet, and the euroboll is, in my view, a first, concrete and decisive response to these aims.
it is a copernican revolution, making europe a frontrunner in the fight against pollution.
is it possible, in your opinion, that a battle of principle on a matter of common concern, such as the fight against pollution, should be so degraded?
it did not take into account the polluting factors, which came later when parliament introduced the environmental issues.
this is only the case with regard to the environmental issue, because we have also achieved another historic result: link the revenue from the congestion charge to the environmental rehabilitation of the motorway networks most prone to congestion.
for the first time, the member states will not only have to invest the revenue from the exploitation of the networks in the fight against pollution, but will have to do so precisely on the stretches most prone to such phenomena.
we have established, among other things, that the directive affects not only pollution from lorries over 12 tonnes but also light commercial vehicles, buses and all other heavy vehicles under 12 tonnes.
– mr president, putting the right price on carbon and road use has long been on our agenda, and it is clear to everyone how important decarbonisation is and how urgent it is to help the road transport sector adopt the cleanest and most efficient solutions.
trucks and buses will pay road tolls according to their co2 emissions, well before an emission-trading system for roads is put in place.
their tolls will also reflect the costs of air and noise pollution.
despite the intention to improve the agreement reached, approving any of the amendments would not only further delay, but most likely stall, the adoption of this key piece of legislation, which is so important for our climate ambitions.
varying road charges based on the co2 emissions and the environmental performance of the vehicle, together with mandatory external cost-charging for trucks, will be a major incentive for the take-up of low- and zero-emission trucks and the renewal in the fleet.
and the other very important element for the european parliament, which was very, very difficult to achieve, is the mandatory earmarking of the revenues of the congestion charges to be spent on sustainable transport.
and with all i’ve said i want to encourage all of you not to support any amendments and support the provisional agreement because today we do not need to be part of the problem, but we need to be part of the solution and a solution is towards more sustainable, fairer road transport.
mr president, the right to a decent life and a healthy working environment is fundamental and as such should be a principle in any policy.
this is not a utopia, this is a possible solution, but if we carefully rethink the philosophy of the green deal and even the meaning we have given to the concept of sustainability.
in this situation, any solution that leads to our energy independence and our ability to economically isolate putin and the kremlin is sustainable.
the most sustainable, of course, are renewable energy sources, because they are inexhaustible and independent of imports.
all technological alternatives to imports from russia coal, gas and nuclear energy, independent of foreign influence, should also be considered sustainable.
i would also like to point out that this moment of solidarity in europe, this historic unity, cannot be isolated, as it were, but must be sustainable.
we have been slow to put emphasis on renewable energy investments and the development of renewable energy storage technology.
to activate collective financing instruments to tackle energy costs, but above all to facilitate investment in renewable sources.
with increased public acceptance, renewables, commissioner, can be at least 45% of the european union's energy mix in 2030. we just have to get to work now.
mr president, the energy crisis that began last year is now deepening and the situation in ukraine is intensifying the situation, so we must find solutions now.
europe has only one way forward and this is energy independence and affordable electricity prices.
we must develop domestic eu renewable technologies.
we need additional funding for that and we need to guarantee stable renewable energy.
the future, however, requires a baseload power, and the only path here is nuclear energy.
renewable energy and nuclear energy are the only path forward to the green transition and to energy independence.
only this would guarantee the energy autonomy of europe.
we should not allow ourselves to move from one form of energy dependency to another one.
it will require us to do everything we can to reverse and reduce the impact on the energy market and bring down skyrocketing energy prices.
it requires us to start producing more biogas and bioenergy, to start making energy more efficient, to start procuring energy solutions together, to start saying no to gas for heating, to start the full establishment of the energy union.
it also requires us to stop putting sticks in the wheel of renewable energy, to stop talking about cutting cables between countries, to stop being protectionists and energy nationalists and to stop being useful idiots in putin's war.
mr president, if, back in october, we were right to be concerned about rising energy prices, we now have every reason to be even more concerned.
putin’s criminal attack against ukraine further increases energy prices.
at the same time, putin’s war seems to be finally accelerating our decisions to become energy independent.
it takes time to build new infrastructure – time we lack – and it diverts money that should be invested in energy efficiency and renewables.
moving fast towards renewables and a green hydrogen—based economy is the only scenario where we will be able to tackle both the climate crisis and blackmailing from despots willing to play games with us.
mr president, our energy dependence is structural.
we need a strategic gas reserve, but we must moderate the influence of this fuel on the calculation of the price of electricity: the operating accounts of many energy companies show that the growth of their profits is much higher than the increase in the raw materials they use.
the consolidation of the single energy market and the interconnections and infrastructures that we lack, such as those needed to link the networks of the spanish and french states, is a priority.
let us accelerate the commitment to energy efficiency in homes and businesses and the deployment of renewables.
we have destroyed our energy security in the hope of long-term independence with a green economy.
it's time to get rid of it and seek true energy independence.
minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again on the threshold of defining the new priorities and objectives that the union is setting itself with a view to achieving a more stable and sustainable future.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that our main, if not our only, priority at the moment is the energy independence of the european union.
and this is not a priority for the next few weeks or months, but after 20 years of wrong policy in this regard, we have to realize it as a priority for at least the next 20. and if in the short term, ensuring our energy independence has to be achieved by whatever means - we have no particular choice - then in the long term we have both a policy that we already follow and a policy that we must assess as absolutely correct.
it is to focus all our efforts on ensuring the energy independence and energy security of our continent, our countries and our citizens through renewable energy sources, by using the energy that nature gives us - inexhaustible and independent of external factors.
so the first priority is to have a means of storing and using this energy, which we generally call batteries.
and is it resource independent as we develop our battery industry, as we develop our energy storage systems?
in the following years, protests against the communist dictatorship in bulgaria were mainly for environmental and ecological causes.
because today some are trying to counterbalance the need to strengthen security policy with the need to preserve our active environmental policy.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, ensuring a favourable working environment and health protection for all workers remains a challenge in the union.
what we need is to impose a full energy embargo on russian oil and gas in order to stop financing putin’s aggression.
the council and commission offer a long-term plan based on renewables and energy storage, and we all like it.
finishing work on interconnections is a matter of real emergency, starting as of now, of joint procedures, of gas from no russian sources, regulating co-generation as an emergency source of energy, but also radically putting an end to red tape and corruption that are suffocating our renewable production.
its very text takes into account phenomena from before the energy crisis of the autumn of 2021 and long before putin's aggression in ukraine.
let's not forget the whole point of emissions trading is to give a price high enough to motivate entrepreneurs to invest.
the rlf has long developed a concept of clean food and organic production, knowing that this would be extremely beneficial for farmers and for rural development, given the environmental benefits and higher incomes for farmers.
i would like to thank the rapporteur ms carvalhais for this report, which is an important follow—up to the commission communication on the sustainable blue economy of 17 may 2021. first, let me highlight that we have shifted over the years from blue growth to a sustainable blue economy, a concept which has the sustainable use of our marine resources at its centre.
the commission promotes an integrated and cross-sector approach to the sustainable blue economy without setting, for instance, specific objectives for fisheries and aquaculture.
in addition, i want to mention other key funding sources put in place to support the sustainable blue economy.
i agree with you that sustainable aquaculture should play an important role in terms of food security, employment and sustainable food systems in the eu.
i also fully concur with you on the need to support the development of algae production as a largely untapped, sustainable alternative raw material for many industries, including food and feed.
as stated in the report, ports have a key role to play in the development of a sustainable blue economy.
they need to become real hubs of blue economy activities, including renewable energy, fisheries, aquaculture, biotechnology and tourism.
your report also contains important findings on the international dimension of the sustainable blue economy.
i fully agree that the regional fisheries management organisations are crucial to promote science-based conservation and the sustainable management of fish stocks.
i also want to underline that the sustainable fisheries partnership agreements the eu concludes with third countries aim towards resource conservation and environmental sustainability.
the financial compensation targets also the sustainable economic and social development in those third countries.
as you know, the commission in its biodiversity strategy has committed to look at how to reconcile the use of bottom contacting fishing gear with biodiversity goals, given it is now the most damaging activity in the seabed and how this can be done in a fair and just way for all.
the action plan will be based on the scientific evidence and through analysis of the social, economic and environmental impacts, based on the available data, as well as on the results of our extensive consultation with stakeholders over the last year.
the commission is determined to ensure a balance between the urgent protection of the marine environment on the one side and the immediate social and economic challenges on the other side, as required by our fisheries and environmental legislation.
the tourism ecosystem has been among the most impacted by covid and now faces further uncertainties due to the russian aggression on ukraine.
in this context, the commission has provided a number of measures to urgently redirect eu funds in support of these efforts to help ukrainian refugees and to provide relief for businesses due to rising energy costs, in particular the temporary state aid crisis framework in the context of russia’s invasion of ukraine and the ‘cohesion’s action for refugees in europe (care), allowing flexible and speedy relocation of available funding to such emergency support.
the commission is committed to continue its support to the eu tourist ecosystem by addressing the lasting impacts of the pandemic and of the russian war, as well as facilitating recovery and transformation of the sector towards increased sustainability and resilience to the future shocks through the implementation of the transition pathway for tourism.
higher prices for fuels and products will impact households and possibly lead to increased energy and transport poverty, but they will also have an impact on transport workers.
our transition to climate neutrality is our transition to energy independence, which is now needed more than ever.
however, the transition can be called sustainable only if it shields the humble and vulnerable.
a way must be found to reduce the eu's energy dependence on russian supplies.
the next item on the agenda is the commission statement entitled 'repowereu plan: european solidarity and energy security in the face of the russian invasion of ukraine, including the recent gas supply cuts to poland and bulgaria' (2022/2654 ((rsp)).
yesterday, the commission presented the repowereu plan to phase out russian fossil fuels from our system and replace them with stable, affordable, clean energy.
this is the time to implement many long—pending projects, with a particular focus on cross—border connections to build an integrated energy market that secures supply in a spirit of solidarity.
until now, we have been climate leaders across the globe, but this shift in gear means we will be able to leapfrog even faster towards sustainability, energy independence and more local industry.
to do this, we have proposed to increase the share of renewables in our energy mix to 45% by 2030. to achieve this goal, we need unprecedented actions at unprecedented speed.
therefore, we propose to amend the renewable energy directive to give member states the right tools to significantly accelerate the permitting process.
and let me be clear, this will not come at the expense of the environment.
for solar energy deployment on existing building structures, we are proposing a three month permitting process.
of course, more efficient use of energy goes hand in hand with cheaper and renewable energy, and there is no cheaper and more secure energy than the one that we do not use.
so, with today’s security concerns and energy prices, the case for investing in energy efficiency has never been stronger.
to maintain the momentum, we have set up the eu energy platform to aggregate the demand for those who want to join, to coordinate the use of infrastructure, and reach out to our global partners both for gas and hydrogen.
speaking of our international partners, yesterday we also adopted our new external energy strategy.
we intend to build long—term energy partnerships that go beyond the immediate energy security needs, for example, by extending cooperation on gas to renewable hydrogen or tackling methane emissions.
we will continue to provide energy supplies and work towards making electricity trade with ukraine possible in the near future.
the commission will also launch the repowerukraine initiative to rebuild a clean and modern energy system after the war.
it is clear that the green transition is the only way to be the masters of the eu energy system, and to provide secure, sustainable and affordable energy for the eu and the world.
by acting together and following the repowereu plan, we will be able to break our energy dependency on russia, while ensuring that energy prices, which are already putting economic pressure on european citizens and businesses, do not rise further.
as a representative of the epp, i want to stress that the tools and policies of repowereu also represent great opportunities for economic development through massive investments in renewable energy, hydrogen, energy efficiency.
it is an ambitious but feasible plan that will ensure our energy independence from russia, will also make a major contribution to achieving our climate goals, we will have a cleaner, more efficient energy system, independent of geopolitical games and with more stable and decent prices for citizens and for the european economy.
madam commissioner, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the main objective of any energy policy is security of supply and affordability.
years ago, we missed the opportunity to build a sustainable gas transmission system.
and last but not least, the balanced energy mix that we want to develop from here on out has to be green and sustainable.
renewable energy sources and stable base energy capacities in the form of nuclear energy.
because we have a common energy market, we have a regulation on the security of gas supply and energy solidarity has been made a legal force.
it is also important that when we store gas - which is so important for the union and for our security - we do not use gas sources from third country suppliers who are not reliable and use gas as an energy weapon.
mr president, the war must not be an excuse for europe's energy suicide.
it's irresponsible to repeat the mantra of atom and gas as transitional energy sources while reducing the temperature of hot water and limiting the shower time of citizens.
energy independence is an illusion.
the russian invasion of ukraine has made it clear that the european union must eliminate the union's energy dependence on russia.
the spanish socialist delegation to the european parliament welcomes the repowereu plan and the associated legislative proposals proposed by the commission to reduce europe's energy dependence on russia.
the measures are in the direction of the solutions proposed by the socialists; accelerating the deployment of indigenous renewable energies, improving the energy efficiency of the union, while diversifying our energy supplies and planning investments in energy infrastructure compatible with climate neutrality.
the socialists also call for more far-reaching measures to curb the rise in energy prices.
the socialists in parliament also support initiatives to provide greater security of energy supply to the union, especially in the event of abrupt cuts in gas supplies.
the russian invasion of ukraine has made it clear that the european union must eliminate the union's energy dependence on russia.
the spanish socialist delegation to the european parliament welcomes the repowereu plan and the associated legislative proposals proposed by the commission to reduce europe's energy dependence on russia.
the measures are in the direction of the solutions proposed by the socialists; accelerating the deployment of indigenous renewable energies, improving the energy efficiency of the union, while diversifying our energy supplies and planning investments in energy infrastructure compatible with climate neutrality.
the socialists also call for more far-reaching measures to curb the rise in energy prices.
the socialists in parliament also support initiatives to provide greater security of energy supply to the union, especially in the event of abrupt cuts in gas supplies.
the repowereu package is a welcome opening, it is through energy policy that we can influence russia's war in ukraine.
however, the package itself is not very new: the increase in renewable energy sources and the improvement in energy efficiency are based on the fit for 55 readiness package already being legislated.
it is important to continue the sensible updating of the red and the eed renewable energy directives now under way, without unduly restricting any effective means already in place to cut emissions.
it is good that the commission identifies the role of biogas in cutting emissions in the repowereu communication.
similarly, the red reform should not further restrict the sustainable use of the eu's main renewable energy source, biomass, especially now that we need more european clean energy sources to replace russian fossil energy.
the repowereu proposal to speed up the authorisation process for renewable energy projects is also good and member states should now urgently implement this at national level.
the increase in the energy efficiency targets of the repowereu package is well-intended, and citizens should be encouraged to take energy-saving measures.
at the same time, we must ensure that we do not slow down the energy transition by tightening up already tight targets too much.
the electrification of societies and the hydrogen economy are based on the use of clean energy, not on the reduction of energy use.
pressure for higher energy costs resulting from the onset of post-pandemic recovery, coupled with vulnerabilities in the european union's security of supply, have made energy a political, economic and social weapon that putin has not hesitated to use in the process of invading ukraine and aggression against the free world.
the repowereu plan is a key response to make the eu progressively independent from russian fossil energy, diversify supply sources and focus on the rapid multiplication of the interconnection network, also mobilising strong public and private investment in energy efficiency and in the production, storage and distribution of renewable energy.
in addition, regulation of energy markets must be strengthened, based on a european data-sharing area and organisational mechanisms that prevent the price fluctuations and distortions that have occurred in recent months.
the islands should be the jewel in the crown of the ecological transition and instead risk being cut off.
my country, cyprus, which is situated at the south-eastern tip of the european union, is the advanced outpost and could become an energy hub, an energy centre, but at the same time a model for renewable energy sources, and it could also host a european organization, something which the european union has so far denied it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the epochal challenge of climate neutrality and environmental protection requires global cooperation and we are all called upon to tackle it: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme.
the five star movement has always been fighting for the green deal in italy and europe, making the ecological transition the foundation of its political action.
the drastic reduction of emissions by 2030 will have to be achieved by promoting renewables, energy independence from fossil fuels, a fair mechanism that incentivises decarbonisation and helps to innovate industrial and production systems.
that is why we welcome the end of the exemptions for waste incineration from the emissions trading scheme, because it will make it less costly to incinerate waste and thus comply with the principles of the circular economy.
so, for these transformations to be socially just, we need to provide adequate support for those most affected by energy poverty and mobility.
we are talking about targets that are no longer renewable, and therefore we need to accelerate the creation of a future green and resilient economy, from which everyone can reap new opportunities and benefits.
we still do not have a deep european internal market in energy.
the most important vote on how we're going to transform the european economy so that we can achieve our climate goals.
but as we talk about climate neutrality and emission reductions, many of the poorest citizens of the member states are wondering whether they will have a job tomorrow, how they will pay their electricity bills and how they will meet their basic living costs.
and i am convinced that achieving climate goals should not be at the expense of the most vulnerable, their incomes and their jobs.
i also hope that the social fund for climate will be the guarantor of this.
it should allow all european citizens to benefit from the funds that climate policies will generate.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states.
as a social democrat, i am pleased that we have been able to reach a compromise whereby a large part of these revenues will be directed towards energy efficiency measures, investment in mobility, zero emissions and reducing the number of vulnerable households.
and as a representative of eastern europe, i call on our governments to step up their actions in a way that will not only accelerate the energy transition, but also make it efficient and fair for all.
madam president, i’m so tired of people telling me that we need to act on climate change in order to care for future generations, that we need to replace our fossil energy by 2050 in order to promise a better future for our children.
we need to act here and now on climate change, and we need to do it within my generation.
and the eu emission trading scheme is the world’s most powerful climate tool that we have to combat fossil energy, and we really need to cherish that.
and as negotiator for renew, i’m therefore extremely proud of what we present to you today, because we need our emissions trading scheme to be the global example and to step up, and when both the left and the right have been in doubt, wanting to lower the ambitions, we in renew have stepped up.
we need to step up on the emissions covered, and that’s why we propose to include more sectors.
we need to step up the investments in green technology, and that’s why we proposed a climate investment fund.
we need new energy in europe and we need to step up on all levels.
(talaren godtog att svara på ett inlägg ("blått kort"))
(blue card) sweden democrats, you are not proposing that the emissions trading system should apply to the transport sector.
that is why the transport sector must enter the emissions trading system, so that all drivers do their homework and so that we collectively reduce emissions from the transport sector.
that is why, jessica stegrud, the transport sector must enter the emissions trading system, but the sweden democrats will say no to that.
the social climate fund is a pain in the ass.
tying the fund to the main emissions trading scheme cuts the budget to a point of utter uselessness.
and you never once mention the energy crisis because of the war in ukraine.
how many energy poor did she produce?
prepared for objective 55 is an unprecedented package of legislation to protect the environment and promote a green economy.
i'll support the proposals for environmental transition and social justice.
the social climate fund will provide support to vulnerable households, transport users and micro-enterprises to cope with the impact of rising energy and fuel prices and costs.
only then will we achieve sustainable economic growth and ensure a just transition in which no one is left behind.
in the context of today's overlapping crises, policies to tackle energy poverty and mobile poverty are a decisive step towards a better future.
we have a consensus to reduce emissions, we have a consensus to increase investment in new technologies, but at the same time we have neither a consensus nor, i would say, a political mandate to accelerate inflation and increase the bills of the citizens of the european union.
is it possible to strike a balance between our climate ambition and common market sense?
is it possible to strike a balance between our climate ambition and our anti-inflation policy?
there is only one process on this planet that captures carbon dioxide, stores the carbon, and releases the oxygen back into the atmosphere: photosynthesis.
wherever there are plants, trees, algae breathing, there is also active climate action.
so we have to make sure that on this planet of ours, plants grow and the carbon they store is stored.
i think we need to stop portraying agriculture and forestry as climate sinners, and instead look at the different ways in which agriculture and forestry can make an active, positive contribution.
in the form of carbon farming - i hope we get a proposal soon - additional humus can be stored in the soil.
mr president, commissioner, the greenhouse gas emissions from road transport have significantly increased since 1990, and 70% of those emissions are coming from cars and vans.
with fit for 55 we have to show how the transport sector will reduce these emissions.
however, whether the market will shift to zero—emissions vehicles is no longer a question.
any delays might put the eu automotive industry at risk of losing technological leadership if it does not invest quickly enough, as well as losing market share in the eu market and failing to be a leader in the fast—growing new market of zero—emissions vehicles on global markets.
i think this is a result of the european union's energy policy.
maybe there should be some kind of common energy policy and there should be some kind of protection for the population.
the main concern in all member states is that the environment should be encouraged, and that this should be an important concern.
it is vital that sustainable management is put in place around the european union for the forests and forests of the world in the years ahead.
it will be even more important to achieve our other biodiversity and climate change goals.
this is the wrong energy policy of the european union.
furthermore, it is a waste of money that could be diverted to something much more sensible in the field of culture and education.
the uncertain situation we are in since the war in ukraine began requires us to think about our energy security.
we must develop our own technologies and produce the energy we need within the european union.
the objectives of achieving a zero-carbon economy are clear, but we need a base capacity to ensure the stability of europe's energy system.
we still do not have the technological capacity to rely solely on renewable energy, and this is clear from the reopening of coal-fired power plants in germany and austria.
nuclear energy will ensure affordable electricity and sufficient electricity for european citizens and industry.
this is the foundation for a more sustainable economy where no one is left behind.
mr president, commissioner, the vote on the delegated act we are voting on tomorrow will not be a vote for or against nuclear energy, it will not be a vote for or against gas.
both energy sources will certainly be part of our mix for the next ten years.
however, i believe it is wrong to say that this delegated act will reduce energy prices and consumption levels, because it is in fact an investment instrument.
i am of the opinion that this delegated act does not reduce the problem of energy dependency and energy prices.
furthermore, i think nuclear has a place in the future of our energy, but definitely has no place in this package with gas.
there are certainly some gas projects that we could consider sustainable, namely those who are leading to less dependence on foreign suppliers.
so, at the end of the day, i am not against nuclear and i am not against sustainable gas projects.
this is a debate on whether to allow temporary financing for energy sources that are of key importance to european citizens and industry.
will we create a regulatory framework to generate fresh money in the energy sector or will we burden the state's public finances, which are currently limited and need to be directed to tackling more serious problems such as the economic and social crisis?
madam president, commissioner, russia's war has led to record food prices, and the steadily rising price of fertilisers and energy, as well as russia's internal ban on grain exports, are putting at risk the livelihoods of tens of millions of people, especially in the north african countries that rely on wheat imports from russia and ukraine.
in the context of sustainable aviation fuels, we need to avoid the airlines imposing a further cost on passengers.
the engines have reduced emissions by over thirty percent.
it's true, emissions increased because traffic increased, because eu citizens traveled.
technological progress will continue in clean sky, but at the same time the only possibility to reduce emissions at the moment is alternative fuels.
mr president, sustainable aviation fuel (saf) can reduce the life-cycle carbon footprint of aviation fuel up to 80%, but it currently makes up less than 0.1% of total aviation fuel consumption.
we will also send a very clear signal to the industry by introducing a binding mandate for synthetic aviation fuels already in 2025. so, the report adopted by the committee on transport and tourism (tran) is a good base for future negotiations with the council, which will deliver the european regulatory framework and foster innovation, production and deployment of sustainable fuels.
mr president, one of the objectives of the european green deal is for the eu to become the first climate neutral continent by 2050. in order to accomplish this, significant changes are required for the european transportation system.
considering its indisputable environmental benefits as a form of transportation, the eu must prioritise cycling in its climate strategy, dedicate resources to cycling policy and promote its advantages.
we need to encourage the implementation of sustainable urban mobility plans in all cities in the european union with a significant presence of mobility measures: generation of bike lanes, public bicycle services, intermodality to easily combine public transport with the bicycle, more chargers for electric bicycles... and we must achieve sustainable mobility spaces in which using a bicycle does not involve the risk of being hit by a car, like the one suffered last week by the world champion, alejandro valverde, while training on the roads of my homeland, the region of murcia.
on the one hand, colleagues say they want to have sustainable fuels, they want to have an eco-component, a recoverable component in aviation fuel.
either these fuels are green and sustainable or they're not.
i understand that it's good for biofuels and hydrogen to become part of sustainable aviation fuels, but the sanctions are simply beyond normal human reason.
let there be a little more reason, enough of this green utopia that will only lead to environmental disasters and huge, severe social upheavals.
in 2020 alone, 1.5 billion euros went to waste, and now we're spending even more to get it back.
i welcome the support for the establishment of the european green prosecutor, my proposal to combat environmental crime.
illegal logging, illegal waste, pollution of air, water, soil costs us enormously, not just billions of euros, but also the health and the future of our children.
mr president, the past six months have shown us that energy efficiency is a matter of national security.
working on the energy performance of buildings directive, i can assure you that the importance of the use of some of the transitional fuels is crucial for us to be able to achieve the climate goals by 2050. i appreciate that the rapporteur on the energy efficiency directive, mr fuglsang, took a pragmatic and realistic approach, combining the strong goals of energy efficiency and, at the same time, allowing for some of the transitional fuels to be used in the short term.
the green deal is more ambitious than ever and more needed than ever now, but we should offer solutions which reduce prices and guarantee energy efficiency in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, of course i, like virtually everyone who has spoken in today's debate, strongly support the high ambition in the field of energy efficiency.
it has this peculiarity that it simultaneously achieves our environmental goals, our economic goals, our energy goals, our geopolitical goals with the same measures.
first of all, it has a huge impact on our social goals as a union and as a country, because there's no doubt that low-income people are the ones who suffer the most from high energy bills.
once we identified the enemy, we neglected other very immediate dangers, like our energy suicide and the social consequences of it.
the nuclear power plant in zaporozhye is under artillery fire with the risk of a serious environmental disaster.
in the war equation, europe must urgently include its own environmental and economic survival.
it is important because it’s an important piece of our energy framework legislation.
as transport commissioner, i’m also very eager to state the fact that, for many files in transport, what constitutes renewable fuel is very important.
and you know that the challenge we see for our mobility to decarbonise, it means we have to use whatever we can, but in a smart way to deliver enough volumes in the market to ensure that our aviation or road transport or our trains or ships can decarbonise in a sustainable way.
and when i say sustainable, i’m thinking an economical, viable approach towards the energy we are using in various sectors, transport included.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment.
i come from the horn of africa, from somalia and from mozambique, and i can assure you that there the combined action of climate change, which causes droughts, and the blocking of food products that have been left in ukraine has caused a situation - i don't want to use words that are already worn out - dramatic, dramatic.
the blockade of ukrainian ports will cause many deaths and the unblocking will allow some to be saved, but unfortunately there is a structural underlying problem, which is that climate change, which will fundamentally affect the most vulnerable parts of africa, will have effects that we will no longer be able to avoid.
and, consequently, we must restructure the economic activity of the population which for centuries lived off agriculture and herding and which will no longer be able to do so because the climate will not allow it.
and i must say that africa - and we will see it in sharm el-sheikh, at the next climate conference - has a very good reason to ask for a greater commitment on our part.
it is a difficult question to answer concretely and succinctly, but, to get to the bottom of it, russia is trying to sell the world the idea that it is our sanctions that are preventing food from reaching importing countries and that it is our sanctions that are raising the price of energy, and we have the obligation, all of us, myself first of course, to explain to the world that this is not so: to begin with, because european sanctions do not affect the export of food products or fertilisers at all, that is not affected at all by our sanctions.
a few days ago there was a conference in europe on the consequences of climate change in africa, and africans rightly complained that there was virtually no senior european leader to participate in it; also that it was held here in europe, and we did not pay enough attention to them.
and africa is right, the global south is right, that the problems of climate change are not created by africa, but they are going to be the ones most directly affected, and if we want to be heard and supported, we need to show greater commitment in our efforts.
madam president, dear colleagues, the measures that have been proposed by the commission today and will be elaborated tomorrow, especially decoupling of gas and electricity prices and putting a cap on russian energy imports, sound more than reasonable, at least in the short run.
but these should be regarded simply as emergency interventions and considered far from sustainable solutions of the strategic problems that we have.
and, as back then, we need a long-term and market—based economic strategy towards more efficiency, less energy consumption, more savings, more new technologies.
we need the current programming period to also be successful if we want to overcome the current consequences of the energy and economic crisis we are facing.
in the current era of perma—crisis with the pandemic, the effects of climate change, and, of course, russia’s war of aggression against ukraine, we can say that these priorities are as valid as ever.
the russian invasion of ukraine and current energy crisis accentuate the urgency to tackle europe’s strategic dependencies, phase out dependency on russian fossil fuels and gas, and accelerate our clean energy transition.
as you know, the commission has proposed its latest package of emergency measures, including to support all final energy customers to counter the economic fallout on our industries, smes and our citizens.
in parallel, we are accelerating the preparation of the european solar industry alliance announced in the eu solar strategy, which will boost domestic capacity and contribute to the faster deployment of clean energy technologies.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
we therefore hope that the commission, within the limits of its powers under the treaties and in constant collaboration with the other institutions and stakeholders, will increase its capacity for action and its willingness to support a sector which is strategic for the sustainable growth of our industry.
first of all, our main goal should be to ensure energy security of supply.
second, we have to take measures to normalise energy prices because our small and medium enterprises will not be able to sustain their work if the price of energy keeps on going up or even stays at the level it is now.
third, the whole of the eu must strengthen its strategic autonomy and we should start producing as much as possible of the energy we need, the goods we need and the services we need, domestically.
but, ma'am, we should get to the point, that energy prices have gone so far up that many small businesses will be forced to close.
sanctions and energy policy should be put in order without delay, because the entrepreneurs will not submit the bill to putin, as mrs von der leyen asked yesterday, but to brussels.
and to address these concerns, the eu is adding new requirements: sustainability reporting, the supply chain directive, new reach tightening, or the absurd requirements for plant protection products.
small and medium-sized enterprises for which the current energy crisis, inflation, are likely to be lethal, especially after the backlash suffered due to the pandemic.
we must therefore act on two elements: the first is to provide urgent answers on energy prices and, in this connection, we welcome the recent proposals on emergency measures to be put in place in the coming months.
we must attract firms, not push them to relocate, and ensure that compliance with high labour and environmental standards becomes an added value and not a threat to their survival.
commissioner, you are crushing the companies with which you want to shape the energy transition.
war, energy crisis, pandemic -- and you come up with farm bureaucracy, supply chain, csrd, reach, fee transparency and so on.
no, we want solutions to energy prices, we want sme and research programmes, we want to support hydrogen start-ups and not crush them with quotas.
high energy costs and lack of materials are posing a great danger to the ability of the sme sector to recover.
high prices for energy, high prices for commodities, the shortage of supply, the imbalances in the transport services are putting the smes on the brink of survival.
thus we need targeted policies towards the cost management and the measures to improve the energy market prices.
in addition, the new rules will simplify the use of radio equipment and reduce unnecessary waste and costs, which will be of particular benefit to consumers and other end-users.
i therefore believe that decisive action at union level is necessary to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market, to better protect consumers and the environment, and to ensure a flexible and forward-looking approach that does not hinder the development of new solutions in the field of installation and does not lead to technological deadlock.
the legislative measure which will make it compulsory on the european market to adopt a universal charger model for small and medium-sized portable electronic devices such as mobile phones, portable computers, digital cameras and headphones is a next-generation measure of great importance that will benefit all consumers and the environment.
it is expected that this measure will save european consumers around eur 250 million per year and reduce the production of e-waste by 11 000 tonnes.
this will also immediately put an end to the surplus chargers that generate nearly 11 000 tonnes of e-waste annually at the expense of the environment and sustainable policies.
any operating and investment costs for cross-border workers, tourists, road hauliers, freight, border queues, road accidents, including air pollution.
and the second problem, we also stress, is the need to find alternatives to chemical fertilizers, to make agricultural production sustainable.
the international scenario of rising commodity prices and energy costs is hitting our farmers hard.
the situation is aggravated by the fertiliser emergency, whose energy-intensive production process raises questions of food supply and security at european and global level.
in addition to immediate responses to curb inflationary pressures and meet the needs of our entrepreneurs, we need a long-term european strategy that moves in the direction of lower environmental impact and greater sustainability.
just recently, putin announced about the confiscation of zaporizhzhia nuclear power station, the far biggest in europe, and it happens just days before the head of the international atomic energy agency visits moscow and kyiv.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral reply to the commission on covid-19 ensuring eu preparedness and response: an outlook by kathleen van brempt, on behalf of the special committee on covid-19 pandemic insights and recommendations for the future, and pascal canfin, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000024/2022 b9-0020/2022) (2022/2735 ((rsp)).
one explores the integration of human and animal health surveillance data; another seeks to improve coordinated surveillance in animals and the environment.
within this legislation – i think it goes without saying – we have to decarbonise, in particular, the transport sector, and we see that individual transport as well as heavy—goods transport are still emitting very high emissions.
alternative and sustainable fuels are key to decarbonising and, in order to do so, we definitely need to overcome the bottleneck which is and which was for a long time the infrastructure.
mr president, international shipping is one of the sectors where co2 emissions have increased most significantly since the 1990s.
and going forward, by 2050, emissions are expected to increase by up to 130% in shipping.
accelerating the uptake of alternative fuels is a cornerstone of our approach to achieve our 2030 climate ambition.
it is also an effective contribution to decreasing our reliance on fossil fuel imports and improving energy security and air quality in the eu.
imposing gradually stricter greenhouse gas intensity limits on the energy used onboard ships will provide a clear signal to the market of the need for renewable and low-carbon fuels in this sector.
it also provides regulatory certainty and facilitates the necessary investment for the energy transition.
the additional requirements to use onshore power supply will drastically cut emissions in port areas from the most polluting ships, including minimising harmful air pollution.
it is important to ensure that the provisions for zero emissions at berth remain robust.
it maintains the majority of central elements in the core methodology of the original commission proposal, such as focus on greenhouse gas intensity, technology neutrality and flexibility mechanisms.
first, the commission has proposed a level of ambition that ensures we are on track to deliver the climate goals in 2030 and 2050, with maritime transport playing its role as part of the economy-wide effort for decarbonisation.
second, regarding the inclusion of a sub—target for renewable fuels of non-biological origin, i would like to recall that fueleu maritime is built upon a principle of technological neutrality, which is also strongly supported by the stakeholders.
that would be a lose-lose situation leading to higher costs for operators while doing nothing for cutting emissions.
regarding the former, in the commission’s opinion, the 5 000 gross tonnes threshold remains the most optimal one where we tackle 90% of emissions while not imposing regulatory burdens on 99% of maritime transport smes.
as regards the geographical scope, our proposal is fair towards third countries and allows them to decide on appropriate action regarding their share of energy used emissions.
that being said, i think we can all agree on the need to set a clear path for swift action on renewable and low-carbon fuels in maritime transport.
a few words on the alternative fuels infrastructure regulation: to accelerate the uptake of sustainable alternative fuels, and particularly zero—emission vehicles, we must also ensure that a sufficient network of publicly accessible recharging and refuelling points is available across the eu, and this regulation provides certainty to light and heavy-duty vehicles that they can easily recharge and refuel.
no sign of insight due to rising energy prices.
we need to put in place all the sustainable solutions from new hydrogen-based fuels to liquefied biogas and new wind-based innovations, not to mention the shore-side electricity capacity of ports.
a europe that lives by exporting needs a clear and fair operating environment for the maritime sector in order to safeguard europe's competitiveness in the future.
mr president, the path to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the maritime sector must be set in the context of scientific and technological progress and take account of the means and starting conditions and needs of each state in the context of its development and sovereignty strategies.
this approach ignores the various consequences of liberalizing these sectors, and it ignores the link between the development of unregulated international trade and emissions and the need for mutually beneficial trade relations based on the right to food sovereignty, the safeguarding of national production, the reduction of production-consumption circuits, the defence of social rights and respect for the environment and biodiversity.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on energy efficiency and renewable energy, in particular by ensuring that the union's energy efficiency targets are met.
mr president, madam commissioner, over the past year we should all have seen that europe’s prosperity is in direct relation with its independence – independence from imported fuels and energy sources.
on the other hand, the environmental catastrophe is not just knocking on the door, but it is making its way across the continent.
by shifting to a sustainable, renewable and efficient energy solution across all transport modes, the union can reduce greenhouse gas emissions and air pollution to improve citizen’s quality of life and create new high-quality jobs while modernising and strengthening european industry and its competitiveness.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to welcome the report that has been tabled and congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs on what has been achieved, as i know from my experience as the epp shadow rapporteur on the committee on the environment, a very, very difficult compromise.
first of all, the risk that the proposed text offers too little freedom for the market to define the technologies that will enable us to achieve clean and sustainable mobility.
we have to realize that we owe all the technological breakthroughs that we enjoy today, and that in large part lead to a cleaner and more sustainable environment, to the private enterprise market, to the creativity of inventors and entrepreneurs, and not least to market competition.
i am concerned because a windfall tax does not necessarily reduce bills, which is the theme of our debate, but rather subsidises the most unsustainable of all forms of electric generation – those from natural gas, it distorts natural market incentives and eventually jeopardises the business plans and investments of more sustainable and viable alternatives.
we often debate here about the lack of energy resources, a lack of gas, a lack of liquidity in our funds.
there is no pandemic now, but there is inflation and an energy crisis, problems for which the commission is responsible, in my opinion.
yes, there were many challenges discussed, from respect for international law, to the economy, to energy security... and yes, the croatian prime minister was there.
to ensure that food is accessible and available, we need to accelerate the transformation towards sustainable agriculture and production systems that are able to withstand shocks and crises.
under horizon europe and euratom programmes we are proposing projects to build knowledge and reinforce ukrainian skills and capacity in the areas of research infrastructures, climate-neutral cities and nuclear safety and security.
madam president, another climate change conference has passed.
the developed countries are shook by responsibilities, the targets for reducing emissions remain insufficient, the paths of individual responsibility, of capital accumulation, of appropriation of natural resources are deepening.
environmental problems are either not being solved or are getting worse.
the carbon market does not reduce emissions, it does not guarantee profits and it does not normalize the right to pollute for those who can afford it.
the perversity of the so-called green economy and the inability of capitalism to respond to humanity's and the environment's problems are increasingly being exposed.
other responses are needed: public control of strategic sectors such as energy; the need for public transport; the promotion of local production and consumption; the guarantee of the right of each state to produce and to food sovereignty; public control of water; the fight against planned obsolescence; the rejection of war.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
beyond energy and transport today, also banking and finance and space, drinking water, wastewater, health, food and more.
starting with the energy sector – under such brutal attack now in ukraine.
i expect swift entry into force early next year, but it will take nearly two years to write this directive into national laws and we cannot afford to waste a single moment when rockets have already fallen on european soil.
mr the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
in fact, in recent years we have seen an increase in hybrid attacks due to both climate change and domestic threats and terrorism, not to mention pandemics, and then war that has put the security of our continent at risk.
– mr president, i would like, first of all, to thank the rapporteur, of course, and all the shadows for the excellent work that they have managed to provide, because i am absolutely positive that especially after 24 of february, nobody’s going to underestimate the importance of this file since we are witnessing how peace and democracy depend on the level of security and on the strength of our critical systems, transport, energy, water and so on and so forth.
i’m glad that during this negotiations, this definition was finally precisely detailed, and it includes also the safeguarding of public health and safety, the environment, and not just the continuation of the economic functions.
concrete measures are needed to meet the challenges of the energy crisis: in the short term, a change in electricity pricing to reduce the bills of citizens and industry.
energy saving and a clear definition of energy poor households so that public resources and efforts can be targeted at them; in the medium term work on common energy supplies and investments in energy efficiency; in the long term we need to continue to develop new technologies and infrastructure to build a truly connected european energy market.
we need to invest more in renewable energy and basic energy capacities like nuclear power.
when i entered politics, i made a pledge to myself: i will always stand by the most vulnerable groups, no matter how much time and energy i will have to expend for their causes.
we have new spending in the social and climate fund, spending that we will direct to ukraine, to its defense and to its reconstruction, i firmly believe.
digital progress is crucial if we want to achieve our climate neutral, fair and green social goals.
let's remember, one of the main causes of our crisis was too little renewable energy, not too much.
we also became dependent on fossil fuels from the east instead of spending more and more money on renewable energy.
first, the recognition of projects for the production of electricity from renewable sources as being in the overriding public interest.
it's about our health, it's about living and avoiding premature death, it's about our sense of security, and it's also about keeping our energy bills as low as possible.
we also need to speed up the installation of pumps, the heating of buildings, biogas plants and energy storage.
in the negotiations on the energy performance of buildings directive, we immediately created an article to allow a faster permitting process for domestic photovoltaic installations.
european citizens have only one question for us at the moment: how can we reduce their energy bills?
this can only happen if we build a balanced energy system that relies on both renewable sources and base capacity, which includes nuclear power.
madam president, repower is turning, i would say at last, our climate policy in the right direction, facilitating the natural market incentives of our citizens and businesses, and providing administrative stability for the family and corporate investments.
but more needs to be done: first, establish and regulate new financial models and schemes allowing for vulnerable households and businesses to reach the private financial market; and second, include new renewable energy sources, such as the oxidation of hydrogen sulfide in the black sea waters, benefiting not only our present members, bulgaria and romania, but also our crucial partners in ukraine and georgia.
renewable energy is own resources using waste, biomass, sun, wind, new jobs, cheaper energy and energy independence.
mr president, the sharp rise in energy and food prices has a particularly severe impact on vulnerable families with children, putting them at particular disadvantage and making it difficult for them to access basic services.
now more than ever, we need to invest in children and fight child poverty to ensure that the energy and food crises do not limit the potential of our greatest asset, our children and young people.
i remember well that four years ago the austrian foreign minister was waltzing with vladimir putin and then became a member of the board of directors of the russian energy giant rosneft.
that every political party funded by the kremlin, every propaganda media outlet, every internet troll factory, every lobbying energy project that develops on a single european territory, affects all of us.