a missed opportunity, but we can fix this by voting in favour of the alternative and objective reports written and adopted by the committee on environment, public health and food safety (envi).
if new rules continue to encourage the concentration of farms, it will harm our agriculture, our environment and the animals will not benefit.
this part not only addresses tobacco, e-cigarettes, alcohol and food policies, but also environmental aspects, such as air quality and exposure to cancerogenic substances.
i just don't think this union should be focusing all its energy on this one little common man who's really doing nothing but wanting a cigarette.
the theme of this year's session is focused on the link between women's rights and the environment, and i think it is timely.
gender inequality and climate change are two of our global and european challenges, two of our most important challenges for sustainable development.
climate change - as we know, unfortunately - is expected to disproportionately impact those, and in particular those, who are already struggling, particularly women and girls who are in vulnerable situations.
the council is aware that the pursuit of gender equality and environmental objectives are mutually reinforcing.
slow progress in actions related to climate change, energy transition, environmental protection or natural disaster risk reduction is sometimes detrimental to the achievement of gender equality, and vice versa.
first, to accelerate the implementation of the international commitments we have already made, both on gender equality and the environment.
second, central, is to act against the effects of environmental degradation and climate change, and against their disproportionate impact, as i said, on women and girls, taking into account all forms of discrimination and paying special attention to gender-based violence.
third pillar: protecting and recognising the role of civil society, including human rights defenders who work to combat inequalities and promote environmental justice.
fourth, also address data challenges and strengthen data breakdown and gender benchmarking to support environmental policies.
– mr president, minister, dear honourable members, four months ago, world leaders and stakeholders gathered at the glasgow climate change conference, the cop26, to recommit and enhance their engagement to act firmly and rapidly on climate change.
on the gender day of cop26, the eu and member states made the submission on the gender-differentiated impact of climate change and the role of women as agents of change.
the implementation of the paris agreement, the sendai framework for disaster risk reduction and the un framework convention on climate change and its gender action plans, needs to take a gender transformative approach to be effective.
this is why i welcome the theme of this year’s commission on the status of women – climate change and the need for environmental and disaster risk reduction policies – with gender equality at the centre of solutions.
climate change, environmental degradation and biodiversity loss take a disproportionate toll on women, primarily because of the reduced access to resources.
addressing climate change is a priority for the european commission, and we stand firm on leaving no one behind.
the eu climate adaptation strategy describes how climate change might worsen existing inequalities and focuses on ensuring that adaptation measures factor in the different adaptive capabilities of women and men, older people, people with disabilities, displaced and socially marginalised persons.
for instance, the proposal for a social climate finder fund recognises that women are particularly affected by carbon pricing, as they represent 85% of single parent families, and calls for mainstreaming gender and equal opportunities in the social climate plans.
under the european climate law adopted in 2021, the commission will help disseminate science-based information about the social and gender equality aspects of climate change, including through the climate pact.
the climate pact also seeks to achieve gender balance amongst climate ambassadors.
in order to effectively address gender equality in climate change, the leadership and participation of women and girls is key.
evidence shows that there are direct links between environmental degradation, climate change and disasters, on the one hand, and gender-based violence on the other.
we have managed to present a very good document and to express the european parliament's position on the issue of linking gender equality and the climate action that awaits us.
climate change will affect all areas of our lives and may deepen inequalities even further.
the adverse impacts of climate change, the increase in the risk of natural disasters and the consequent deterioration of the socio-economic situation may lead to serious violations of the fundamental rights of women and girls in some parts of the world.
but to do that, we need gender-sensitive analysis and data collection so that we can better understand and be prepared for the specific impacts of climate change and pandemics on women and men.
and climate change and natural disasters will only make that number worse.
so first of all, i would like to thank all those who are actively helping, all those who are transporting people, providing food, helping refugees with their orientation in a new environment, or making their apartments available to them as they can.
most likely, the mistake was a consequence of naivety vis-à-vis putin’s russia, but also the belief of the member states that they have the right to choose their energy mix allows a lack of cooperation and almost no coordination.
at the same time, as a consequence, we are facing the problem we are talking about today as we are facing the energy price crisis.
i believe we can, and we will, manage this crisis and, after all, the eu will get stronger, with a better energy union.
we will become safer and we will secure affordable energy.
market price regulation, although unfortunately not going as far as necessary in decoupling price elasticity from gas price, direct support to businesses and consumers, the possibility of joint purchases in the market, the obligation to build up reserves, increased and more simplified investment in renewable energy, the strong bet on green hydrogen, the creation of a resilient and fluid market through more interconnections.
energy and fuel prices are at record highs.
after the autumn wave of the energy crisis coupled with the war in ukraine, this is now creating additional pressure on households and businesses, especially small and medium-sized ones.
we need to reduce the tax burden, whether it's vat or excise duty, to stop speculating with subsidies, to add compensation to those who are most affected by energy and fuel prices.
for the future, we must strengthen europe's self-sufficiency and diversify its resources, both traditional and renewable.
the impact of current climate legislation needs to be assessed very well in the current context.
i want to mention that word here because it's about exactly one thing: you're putting your old agenda your old agenda pesticides on ecological priority areas your old agenda more meat your old agenda against the green deal, your old agenda against farm to fork you're putting it now in the shadow of a war.
to meet this challenge, we need a true global food policy, one that overcomes the positions that would lead to the decline of our productive potential and thus makes farmers a formidable weapon to ensure sufficient, sustainable and quality food for all.
the combination of energy, interest and food inflation is a dangerous cocktail for our unity and cohesion.
we need to stabilize markets, stabilize commodity prices, and begin a transformation that will address our long-term dependence on energy, on staples, and especially on protein.
– mr president, in the last few years, the republic of moldova has faced an exceptional triple crisis, namely the covid—19 pandemic, the energy crisis and the prevalent fight against systemic corruption and nepotism that caused significant weaknesses in several sectors, including limited administrative capacity.
while moldova is still one of the poorest countries in europe, the economic recovery plan for moldova can be an essential stimulus for mitigating the effects of the pandemic, the energy crisis and state weaknesses, while also creating the changes needed to make moldova more efficient and resilient to coming changes, which will be more than plenty.
– madam president, i tried to catch the eye, but i was unsuccessful so i will waste a little bit of my precious seconds to just remind a few of my colleagues that the mfa so very important for moldova is not related to the refugee crisis and to the war.
currently, moldova is seeing the impact of war, raised energy prices and some additional costs.
but i find it promising that the commission statement is now working on speeding up the transition, and looking at how the ‘energy efficiency first’ principle can be implemented for next winter, and especially in the years to come, and fast permits for renewable energy could be more binding than just a recommendation.
but let us not waste a single month in speeding up the transition, the availability and production of the heat pumps, solar panels, energy efficiency actions, renovation.
madam president, commissioner, minister, i certainly welcome the european commission's measures to reduce the impact of high energy prices and the measures that are the result of the war in ukraine.
and yes, we're building even more renewables, and yes, let's focus on energy efficiency, but please, not energy efficiency in general.
some member states will have to adjust their decarbonisation pathways as a result of the war in ukraine and simply will not be able to afford to increase energy efficiency as much.
so instead of having broad, binding targets in energy efficiency, let's focus on supporting those countries that can actually increase efficiency, and give them some incentives.
furthermore, please note that the reduction in imports of energy commodities from russia will lead to a shift away from coal.
let's not waste this chance!
and in the matter of 4 weeks, not in the matter of 1 million in a year like 2015. we are hit by the energy crisis.
for this reason, i believe that we need a holistic approach to provide adequate and sustainable responses to this growing health sociological challenge.
combined with the effects of the russian war of aggression that raised energy and commodity prices, it has all had a detrimental impact on moldova.
madam president, commissioner, the oecd agreement allows for this global minimum corporate tax to be introduced; that is certainly good news, but setting the minimum tax at 15% of profits is not enough in our view, especially at a time when there are large companies, such as energy companies, which have made extraordinary profits of over 200 billion euros from the rise in the price of gas and oil.
we need tax revenue to enable the union to implement sufficient social policies against the consequences of the pandemic, the war in ukraine, the climate crisis, etc.
now it looks like everything has to be explained with the fight against climate change.
but, frankly, i think the conviction of some of our colleagues here – that the most important mission of our armed forces is to fight climate change and the most important goal of them is to produce tanks, artillery or even jets without any carbon emission – is just ridiculous.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that tomorrow we are about to have the most important vote in five years, a vote that will affect the lives of every citizen of the european union, a vote that will raise the price of energy for housing, heating, lighting, transport and food.
all this in the name of saving the planet, in a situation where the european union's co2 emissions are less than 10% of the global emissions, and where the other countries that emit far more have not committed themselves to a radical programme like the one we are about to commit ourselves to here.
when the vice chairman of the commission introduced the climate bill a year ago, he spoke of the bible as our bible.
the emissions in aviation, solving the corsia problem, it all makes sense.
will there be free allowances, or will we decide to liquidate our industry just because of some cbam chimera, when we don't even know if it's going to work and if partners like xi jinping and others, when they file those carbon certificates, if we can even trust them?
i have to say, madam president, fit for 55 is the largest package of climate neutrality legislation worldwide by far.
higher emission reduction targets require a revision of the existing climate policy instruments.
we've been trying for 17 years, and we've found that carbon emissions haven't decreased to the extent that we need to, certainly not globally.
with cbam, we europeans are introducing a new global regime that takes climate action seriously and creates enormous competitive advantages for fast companies.
this gives our companies a clear signal that will make them more competitive, and it also creates clear structures for a new, climate-friendly world trade in the long term.
package ready for 55. we definitely need to protect the environment and the climate, we definitely need to get out of the recession after the pandemic, and we certainly need to protect ourselves from importing raw materials from russia.
first, free allowances for steel, fertiliser, cement industries should be until the cbam is proven and certain benchmarks should also reward businesses for low-carbon investments.
if we want to fight smog, we need to have support for heating, but we really need to fight for the climate and the environment.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, when the european parliament voted on the climate law just a year ago, it made a specific commitment to reduce climate-changing emissions by 55% by 2030, with the dual aim of combating climate change and of innovating our production system and making it, precisely because it is more efficient and more sustainable, also more competitive.
the revision of the ets directive and the introduction of the new carbon border adjustment mechanism are two of the key pillars for achieving these objectives.
to those in this chamber who, with pretexts, want to put the fit for 55 package in the drawer, we reply that without the ecological and energy transition we cannot get rid of our dependence on fossil fuels from abroad, the rising cost of electricity bills for citizens and businesses and a more sustainable environment for future generations.
madam president, i would like to also drop a few words on the social climate fund, as the renew europe shadow rapporteur.
the eu has quite steep green ambitions and this bears a risk of a negative social impact and therefore it is very logical and we welcome the existence of such tools, such as the social climate fund, simply to balance this risk and provide help to the most vulnerable groups of citizens and micro-entrepreneurs and businesses.
to the design of the fund, we also welcome and we are pleased that through this fund we can support not only sustainable investments but also to a certain extent the direct income.
member states then have a possibility to address their local situations through their climate plans to simply address specifically what they need.
less emissions?
so we, the ecr group, were ready to look for common ground and common solutions, but not under those undemocratic circumstances, not in supporting this package deal, which will bring more harm to businesses, which will bring more harm to poor people, and which will not solve the climate problem.
several members made reference to the food crisis – ms bonafè and mr tajani, and i think that we have to be absolutely clear here that the food and energy crisis is of russia’s making.
weaponising energy supply led already last year to an increase of energy prices, but blocking ukrainian ports, bombarding grain storages and destroying the agricultural infrastructure of ukraine – even stealing ukrainian grain and then charging an export surcharge on agri—exports – is a deliberate push to create an artificial food crisis and tension in the world, for which russia is entirely responsible.
several of you made very pointed, and very understandable, points on the economic situation, on energy prices and on high inflation.
we have to learn the harsh lesson that dependencies cost a lot – be it in energy or in critical raw materials and we just have simply to rely more on our indigenous renewable sources and we have to diversify much more our supplies so nobody can threaten us with cutting supplies to us any more in the future.
ladies and gentlemen, i need not tell you that you can count on us, on me, on my commitment, on our energy in the implementation phase, which will begin the day after your assembly votes on these two texts.
mr president, the big tech created a strongly centralised digital environment because they want to exercise full control over our digital lives.
this means challenging the centralised digital ecosystem.
because our fundamental rights can prevail over the commercial interests of the big tech as long as the digital ecosystem relies on covert tracking of individuals or when legal content is removed by error from filters.
some member states cannot meet paris targets without nuclear energy because their geographical conditions do not allow full—scale use of renewables.
we do not press us the others who oppose the nuclear energy to use it, but please do not press us to stop using it if we are convinced that this is the only way how we can move forward.
it was not easy to find a compromise on such a difficult debate, like the fit for 55 package in the area of climate, or on new rules for the digital economy.
i also hope that we will be successful in the fight against inflation, in ensuring energy security, employment and increasing the competitiveness of our economies.
representatives from more than over 40 countries and organizations agreed on the lugano principles: ukraineowned, reformfocused, transparency, accountability and rule of law, democratic participation, gender equality and inclusion, and sustainability, and i think these are good principles.
and this means primarily to push forward the very ambitious agenda of our european green deal, because climate change will not wait until putin's war is over.
with repowereu, we are mobilizing substantive new resources for renewable energy.
but we know that all of this will only work, the diversifying away from russia and having energy security of supply, if we speed up the transition to renewable energies.
now, i observe that some say that in the new security environment after russia's aggression, we have to slow down the green transition.
so, the new security environment is the best argument to speed up deployment of renewables.
so, let's take the opportunity and really invest in the renewable energy.
so it is obvious putin continues to use energy as a weapon.
this has accelerated inflation in all the energy-related sectors.
we need to rethink how we create growth in a very different political and economic environment.
in addition, for the first time, the content of the engagement is unprecedented in social and climate matters.
and finally, the czech presidency comes at the right moment when we have to focus on the most urgent tasks, and that is about inflation and especially energy security.
we support the priorities of your programme, prime minister fiala: strengthening freedom, security and common prosperity, managing the refugee crisis, the post-war recovery of ukraine, as well as energy security and containing inflation.
so, together with our support for ukraine, you need to urgently address how to ensure that there is enough energy for households and businesses this winter, how to unblock ukrainian ports to prevent a global food crisis and the subsequent waves of migration, how to keep europe competitive in the face of drastically rising energy prices and ever-increasing inflation.
turning towards a green economy is key to tackling our climate challenges, but also to get rid of very inconvenient dependencies, as we see these days, and this should be the council’s presidency goal, too.
this proposal does not live up to our ambitions, but also does not live up to the consistency of our policies for climate neutrality.
prime minister, there are reforms like energy transition that we can undertake under the current treaties, but others demand treaty changes.
on the war, we know that until we can put an end to this war, inflation will not fall, energy prices will not fall, we will not be able to save the ukrainian people and we will not be able to save the european peoples, our countries, our citizens.
energy bills have risen fivefold, tenfold, businesses can't make ends meet, budgets are not making ends meet, the outlook for our economy is gray as it has not been for a long time.
i would like to conclude by saying that i do not agree that what the european institutions are doing on the green transition is not affecting the price of energy and is not part of the problem.
ukraine is also linked to the current energy crisis facing europe.
now we must work urgently to have enough affordable energy for our citizens.
it has the potential to use carbon-free nuclear energy.
because without nuclear and gas, we can't provide enough energy.
the government then orders energy security to czech citizens by forcing them to buy cheap energy produced in the czech republic with a multiple surcharge.
not only because the eastern member states are facing the biggest refugee crisis in the history of the union, and they are hosting refugees, but also because we are facing economic recession and an energy crisis.
the czech presidency's emphasis on security of supply is encouraging, as energy supply is not an ideological but a physical issue.
if we are talking about affordable energy, affordable energy, energy at a reasonable price, energy security for europe, there is a social dimension.
but we're also talking about the need for a great balance between environmental action, social peace, economic development.
we are preparing a conference on energy poverty on 24 october, a conference on the integration of disabled people into the labour market on 20 and 21 september, and a conference on the eradication of child poverty at the beginning of july, so we are also dealing with these issues.
i agree that strong and concrete action is needed in areas like energy, the economy and other things.
many countries are satisfied with the way the emissions allowance system works, many countries are not satisfied with it, and it is even causing them great problems.
but we also have to be serious about energy policy.
there are countries in europe that don't have an energy mix at all that is built to be dependent on russia for anything.
there are countries that can rely on renewable energy, have done a lot of work on it, and are pretty far behind in this area today.
there are countries that have not done much, and we can say that this is their fault, but they also do not have the same natural conditions as other countries, and therefore their energy mix needs must be taken into account.
and i'm saying again here that countries like the czech republic and some others, unless they have the ability to finance nuclear energy as a clean source, they're not going to be able to meet climate goals, they're not going to be able to get rid of their dependence on russia quickly.
when we talk about energy, energy self-sufficiency, the drive to have energy at affordable prices, who do we have in mind?
we cannot have any other priority than independence from russian energy sources and strengthening european security capacities.
the european union has set itself ambitious targets to combat climate change.
here, the czech presidency will have a very important role in the negotiations on legislation and i wanted to ask you on this subject whether you are ready to complete the negotiations on the legislative package and whether you believe it is possible to achieve the objectives for climate neutrality and at the same time to get rid of dependence on russian resources.
we're facing the war in ukraine, the energy crisis, inflation, the pandemic.
at the same time, other urgent problems such as the climate emergency did not magically disappear.
but that does not mean, as the title of today's debate suggests, that we should increase our efforts to combat climate change.
we must first of all adapt to climate change, working with the measures we have already taken, but certainly not raising the already high ambitions, the outcome of which is completely unclear, even in the light of current events with rising energy and food prices.
these measures will enable us to cope with the fluctuations of the weather, while ensuring food security and environmental measures.
and the root causes are in the negative synergy of putin’s war, of the german energiewende, which produce this instabilities, and the radicality of the eu climate law.
we should be selective, we should fight putin first in those circumstances, and then we can go back to climate if we would have some partner in the global world.
energy prices down now!
people and businesses need lower energy prices now, not after two years of the usual european legislative procedure.
the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the energy market, such as the introduction of a reserve instrument now, but also a fundamental reform of pricing not stock market price caps may determine the energy price in the future.
it must be the average prices of the different types of energy.
there must be a balancing mechanism to anticipate price increases and prevent energy crises.
please no announcements, no consultations, no leaks, no first proposal and all the things that will be discussed in the parliamentary procedure, but now we must also talk about the reform of the energy market design.
if we want to prevent thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people from falling into poverty because of high energy bills, we must take control of the energy market now.
so limit the energy bill for ordinary households, for heating a home is not an unnecessary luxury.
we don't have time to waste, because there are too many people waiting for a headwind.
third, put forward a kind of a package for energy-intensive industries and also for industries using natural gas as an input commodity for production, for example, a chemical industry or a fertilizer industry.
you mentioned a lot on renewables and energy efficiency.
we face a ‘now or never’ moment when it comes to addressing the triple crisis of climate change, biodiversity loss and pollution.
ambitious outcomes of the cop27 in sharm el-sheikh and the united nations biodiversity conference in montreal are crucial, and the oceans play a key role in both.
that’s why the eu is working hard to ensure that a strong and ambitious treaty on biodiversity beyond national jurisdiction is agreed.
we will aim to maintain the political momentum through the high ambition coalition on biodiversity beyond national jurisdiction.
the commission also fully agrees that marine minerals in the area cannot be exploited until the effects of deep-sea mining on the marine environment, biodiversity and human activities have been sufficiently researched, the risks are understood, and technologies and operational practices are able to demonstrate that the environment is not seriously harmed, in line with the precautionary approach and the ecosystem-based approach.
we are looking forward to the final resolution, which you will adopt later this week, and to working together with you on setting the course for a sustainable blue planet.
the next item is the report by clara aguilera, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on striving for a sustainable and competitive eu aquaculture: the way forward (2021/2189(ini)) (a9-0215/2022).
we propose solutions in both the short and medium term, including measures on organic aquaculture, but equally on other aquaculture models which are equally sustainable and which should play a key role in the sector's expected growth in line with the transition to a more sustainable food system in europe.
firstly, i would like to stress the need for a predictable, streamlined and business-friendly legal framework for europe, which takes account of the three pillars of sustainability: economic, social and environmental.
this is the only way to develop the growth potential of the sector and is essential to be able to provide sustainable and quality food, reduce our dependence on imported aquatic food and create more jobs in the european union, especially in coastal regions.
i would also like to draw attention to the fact that the aquaculture sector can contribute to providing ecosystem services to society, and that the rearing of algae, for example, or other aquatic products, can contribute to the decarbonisation of the european union's economy and to mitigating the fight against climate change.
another problem i would like to draw attention to is the availability of sustainable feed ingredients for aquaculture in the union.
following the council conclusions of july this year and the opinions of the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions of last year, your report rounds up the broad support of the major eu institutions and bodies for the commission’s strategic guidelines for a sustainable and competitive eu aquaculture of may 2021. the commission fully agrees with your report.
aquaculture needs to have the prominent place it deserves as it is a crucial part of the sustainable blue economy, and it contributes to the objectives of the european green deal.
the commission is also managing and planning actions in areas you highlighted in your report, such as sustainable feed, animal welfare, and environmental performance, and we propose to use horizon europe funding to promote research and innovation for aquaculture.
on the topic of funding, i can confirm that the commission regularly monitors strategic guidelines for sustainable and competitive aquaculture.
furthermore, the mapping of good practices on the management of predators is part of the future guidance document on environmental performance, which the commission will develop as part of the implementation of our strategic guidelines.
finally, i’m confident that our combined efforts and support for sustainable and competitive aquaculture in the eu will help this important economic sector to realise its potential in the years to come, to the benefit of us all.
on behalf of the s&d group, madam president, i would first like to thank the excellent work done by mrs clara aguilera and her shadow rapporteurs, both for their technical competence and rigor and for their clear ability to strike the right balance between the three pillars of sustainability for the aquaculture sector.
in parallel with the supply of healthy food with high nutritional value and a low ecological footprint, this is a sector which, if well targeted, can help enormously in protecting the environment and biodiversity, reducing pressure on marine resources and supporting the effective restoration of fish stocks.
it is therefore important to strengthen support to enable the sector, in partnership with science and technological innovation, to develop solutions that will further reduce the environmental impact of aquaculture production.
we want to produce more proteins, more sustainably, and we have climate ambitions.
how many years will we still have to waste before figuring it out?
i don’t think that anybody underestimates the impact of the energy crisis, but this is a debate on a different topic.
on that topic, the incomplete harmonisation of charging solutions for electronic devices has been causing inconvenience for consumers and excessive e—waste for many years.
the energy crisis affects different countries in different ways, but we can't let russia divide us, because that's what it wants.
farmers are trying to reduce chemical pollution in the soil.
we can’t fight two wars, advance against putin and carbon, it’s above our weight.
therefore, we should slow down our radical decarbonisation effort by mitigating the ets system, by allowing lng long-term contracts, by capping the energy prices, the gas from the electricity.
and finally, also by rehabilitating fully the nuclear energy as the stable source of baseload.
all of them have a serious impact on the functioning of our health system and on the mental resilience of our population – from the covid—19 pandemic to russia’s war of aggression against ukraine and its subsequent humanitarian consequences, energy and food crises, as well as subsequent economic difficulties for populations all across europe.
now with economic worries, soaring energy prices, rising food costs and daily images of a brutal war, these are all putting incredible pressure on people.
it affects all areas of our lives, whether it's employment, public health, impact on inclusion, quality and sustainability of society and the economy.
and we're all seeing the negative impact of the coronavirus pandemic, the energy crisis, and the war in ukraine on mental health.
hurry up with the promised framework law on sustainable food, because only then will we guarantee food security.
you know, it's in climate change, but it's also in the pandemic, but it's also in greed, it's also in speculation, and it's also in wars.
a government that has not helped with input prices, a government that has the highest vat on food in europe - these are the facts - and a government that has caused food inflation to even outpace energy inflation for a few months this year.
mr president, commissioners, the repowereu plan is another step in the overall work of the european union institutions after the readiness for target 55 package and as a consequence of the whole recovery and sustainability mechanism, and mainly on the energy efficiency, renewable energy and energy performance of buildings directives, which aim to increase energy efficiency ambitions, accelerate the green transition and diversify energy supply.
the inclusion of a 'repower eu' chapter in member states' national recovery and resilience plans can also achieve the additional investment and the reinforcement of energy reforms needed for the overall transformation of the european energy system.
the development and implementation of these chapters in the plans will lead to both an update of these plans in the context of the situation of the energy markets and the war in ukraine and at the same time to increase the effectiveness of the plans and diversification and independence.
mr. president, mr. vice president, the world is coming together in egypt these days to address the accelerating climate change.
are we going to bury our credibility in the negotiations on the fight against climate change?
because we, as greens, fully understand that energy security in the coming winters is very important and that we will have to take painful decisions, but they must be decisions limited in time, with a limit on the money we are going to spend, as we are going to propose in the parliament's proposal, because that pretext cannot be used to invest european public money in investments that condemn us in the long term to be more dependent on fossil fuels, because that would be a very big mistake.
i hope the council will listen to us, because this is no longer simply a matter of public policy; we are playing with europe's credibility in the fight against climate change.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for decades a false ecological ideology has systematically undermined the energy independence of our nations and tried to get us to give up nuclear energy.
yet this decarbonised energy, in which france has been able to invest and excel, has proved its worth.
it is by far the most efficient, both from an environmental and economic point of view.
it is worth coming to us to talk about sovereignty of states and the choice of the energy mix, if the european union refuses to include nuclear energy in its green energies.
that is why we tabled our amendments: to include nuclear energy in green energy.
on the one hand, we are trying to increase the share of renewable energy in the energy mix, but on the other hand we know very well that this renewable energy must be accompanied by some kind of stabilizing reserve.
the commission recognised that the accelerated energy transition that we are forced to undertake as a result of russian aggression in ukraine places different burdens on member states, as their capabilities and exposure to russian energy sources differ.
the council succeeded in making a more balanced proposal on how and from what sources resources could be provided, but the ep, by excluding oil and nuclear investments to help the transition, is showing that it has no interest in a successful energy transition in central europe, and that it does not see the physical, technical and geographical constraints.
if parliament's text is successful, the pace of independence will be slowed down, the population will pay the price with higher energy prices and inflation, european industry will be displaced and our competitiveness will be reduced.
of course, the european union needs more of its own energy again.
it goes to the big energy companies in europe.
– mr president, dear colleagues, dear commissioner, the geopolitical climate for europe is getting harsher and we step up our efforts to secure vital entities in our single market as a whole.
we respond to the growing impacts of climate change and to gaps and vulnerabilities that opened up in the pandemic.
energy, health, food, space... 11 areas, as has been said, are covered by this directive and it is clear that a lesser resistance of one sector, of one critical entity in a particular member state will have cascading effects throughout the space, throughout the internal market.
it includes transport, healthcare, water and heat, energy and, not least, financial services.
the czech presidency is working day and night, the third emergency energy council so that there is at least some short relief.
if we don't, the big energy-intensive companies will all move to china or america.
we all want to protect nature and biodiversity.
occasional sources of energy.
there is therefore no reasonable reason for legislative discrimination against this promising and, at the same time, ecological and, above all, domestic resource.
at a time when the commission and parliament have caused the rise in the price and shortage of fertilisers, the rise in energy and fuel prices through sanctions against russia, it is pointless to legislatively harm production in biogas plants.
that is why i and my colleagues have tabled a number of amendments to create a favourable legal environment for biogas.
the russian attacks on ukraine's energy infrastructure are state terrorism, used by dictator putin to bring the ukrainian people to their knees.