your lobbying for the french nuclear industry threatens a months-long dispute over energy policy.
there are more environmentally friendly, safer and cheaper alternatives to nuclear energy to make europe climate neutral.
the french president touched on a number of themes: immigration, border protection, and ecological transition, are just a few examples.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment through the implementation of the union's policy on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
– mr president, as the rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), i would like to thank all the colleagues from other committees, rapporteurs and shadows, for their good cooperation on this dossier.
the fight continues and i will fight to ensure that young people, vulnerable people, consumers and businesses have a healthy online and social media environment.
the digital services act now under consideration is primarily concerned with preventing crime in the online environment and ensuring that illegal and criminal activities are also prohibited online.
in the context of the re-launch of the digital services act, let us remember that a secure, accessible, predictable and trustworthy online environment is necessary for union citizens to enjoy their fundamental rights and freedoms guaranteed by the charter of fundamental rights.
rising cost of living, energy and food prices, the gap between rich and poor, middle classes eroding - and more so in kazakhstan.
the commission will continue to support member states’ efforts in implementing the united nations sustainable development goals relevant to women’s health, such as on universal access to sexual and reproductive care, family planning and education.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the manufacture of certain products.
in particular, i want to thank the committee chair, the honourable member ms metz, for her energy and commitment to this work, and the co-rapporteurs, honourable members ms carvalhais and mr buda, for their constructive and cooperative approach.
in conclusion, i think it is very important to continue without retreat the positive steps in the ecb's action in combating the climate crisis, and also to get rid of dogmatic approaches to the approach to the principle of market neutrality.
the current pandemic wave and associated restrictions are likely to continue to have a negative impact on growth at the start of this year, 2022. two other factors, namely supply bottlenecks and high energy costs, are also expected to dampen economic activity in the near term.
energy prices, as you also highlight in your report, continue to be the main reason for the elevated rate of inflation.
their direct impact accounted for over half of headline inflation in january, and energy costs are also pushing up prices across many sectors.
at the same time, geopolitical tensions have increased and persistently high costs of energy could exert a stronger than expected drag on consumption and on investment.
in particular, we will carefully examine how higher energy prices will transmit through the economy and affect the outlook overall.
on the one hand, rising energy costs can drive up prices directly by increasing the cost of production, as well as indirectly by having second-round effects on wages.
in the past, the euro area has been vulnerable to the second channel as surges in energy prices weakened the spending power of households and reduced inflation over the medium term.
the second area i would like to point out, which you also mentioned in the report, is the impact of climate change.
i'm pleased that your report welcomes our action plan on how to incorporate climate change considerations in our monetary policy framework.
i am equally pleased to tell you that the implementation of the climate change action plan is on track.
we are also working, together with other central banks across the euro area, on new exploratory climate related statistical indicators, and we are adapting our macroeconomic models.
integrating climate-related indicators and risks is not a distraction.
it is essential to better understand how climate change is affecting the economy, is affecting the inflation outlook, is affecting monetary policy transmission and is affecting financial stability.
furthermore, a recent increase in energy prices and inflationary pressures could weigh on economic activity.
the european central bank operates in a constantly changing international environment, which since the summer of 2021 has begun to send warning signals.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
the impact of the pandemic and the rise in inflation, especially in energy prices, is a matter of concern to everyone.
the issues of climate change and equal representation of women are also raised.
we had a really good climate in the committee negotiations.
one of the main causes of inflation is higher energy prices, which of course also have an additional impact on the prices of goods and services.
and it is clear that the ecb's monetary policy has no direct influence on the rising prices and supply shortages in the energy sector.
we need the right solutions instead, namely more speed and more energy, more ambition for an energy transition and for a green transformation in europe.
and the ecb can do something proactive about climate change within the framework of its mandate.
and in terms of adapting its policy to the new environment of high and still rising inflation, the european central bank’s car at the moment is, i think, fair to say, in first gear.
and the current inflation data shows that we should be on our toes because food prices, and especially energy prices, have gone so high.
unfortunately, brussels is driving up prices with its ideological energy policy, putting the burden of greening on the population, which is a serious mistake and discredits such an important green policy.
you can contribute to stability by keeping prices under control and thereby creating a favourable investment environment.
i think this example is timely and necessary at this time, when we see prices rising and, as the president of the ecb has said, fundamentally, mainly because of the price of energy or bottlenecks in the production structure and in the rates of recovery.
on the other hand, there is something that the ecb can do in the medium and long term to combat this energy price - which accounts for 50% of the price increase - which is to accelerate the ecological transition from the monetary policy instruments that are available, for example by ensuring a greater ecological perspective in the centres or, for example, by withdrawing the purchases of fossil fuels that are still made on a massive basis through asset purchase programmes.
conclusion: the euro is a path of confusion and confusion, as are your climate-saving fantasies and unskilled mass migration.
as inflation hits the eurozone and the debts of some member states reach unsustainable proportions, the ecb is focusing on climate change risks, whereas i believe that task lies with insurers, credit assessors and advisory agencies.
and it's not just energy prices, as has sometimes been suggested here.
because core inflation, which is inflation excluding energy and food, was also 3.7 percent in december.
if the left and the green parties are calling for climate policy, they are wrong.
the european central bank is not a climate investment bank.
so what the european central bank is doing to change the risk assessment in the context of climate change is exactly right, but what the report also calls for that the european central bank is actively pursuing climate policy is wrong, because it is outside of its mandate.
today 's winning numbers: the ecb's room for manoeuvre in the fight against inflation is considerably increased if, as a first step, reform of the european fiscal and debt rules ensures that the cyclical policy capacity of all member states is maintained and the necessary increase in investment, in particular to address climate change, is guaranteed.
so, oil and gas extraction, either through a carbon price or through regulation, must be stopped.
so, mrs lagarde, the question for you is: are you also willing to do everything to guide us through this climate crisis of destructive betting?
– madam president, we all know that we have a historic challenge ahead of us, which is to transform the rebound of our economies into durable, sustainable and stable growth.
i think this discussion shows with this challenge, first, the awareness of the importance of the european central bank in this environment, in the framework we have ahead of us.
and third, i would like to make a few points in relation to climate change and how it actually impacts our monetary policy, both in terms of stance and transmission.
final point, because there have been many issues that were raised in relation to climate change, and i did tell you that we were on schedule, with reference to our action plan.
the corporate sustainability reporting directive (csrd), the taxonomy regulation and the regulation on sustainability-related disclosures in the financial services sector are going to help us a great deal in properly managing the risks that we have on our balance sheet and actually expecting from banks in particular that they do comply with disclosure requirements.
so, rest assured that we are driven, dedicated to one mandate, which is that of price stability, but that we have to be very mindful of how climate change impacts the action that we have to take.
but, the central banks that are members of the euro system and the ecb at its heart, are very keen and have actually unanimously approved the fact that climate change is one of the components that we have to take into account for monetary policy determination for the macroeconomic framework and obviously for the supervision of the banking institution that we supervise throughout the european union.
the debate, and our report underlines this, has shown the need to learn from the mistakes of the past; not to 'kill' the sustainable recovery, not to undermine the objectives we have all set ourselves together by creating and activating the recovery and resilience fund.
however, a hasty and rapid rise in interest rates will not lower fuel prices; on the contrary, it may hinder, undermine the sustainable growth, resilience and price stabilisation that a comprehensive approach requires.
we have been working hard to lay solid foundations for the revision, in the form of a fitness check of the existing legislation and the impact assessment addressing the environmental, social and economic impacts of the legislative proposal.
it should be consistent with the forthcoming proposal on sustainable food systems, labelling and empowering eu consumers to make informed animal welfare choices when they buy food.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
first of all, i would like to thank rapporteur morten petersen and all the other co-rapporteurs for the good cooperation and the cooperative atmosphere on this important topic of 'renewable offshore energy'.
when most people think of offshore, they think of offshore wind farms, but offshore is so much more: there are now floating wind farms, there is the use of wave energy, there are osmotic power plants, there are thermal power plants, there are floating solar power plants, there are tidal turbines.
our oceans offer incredible potential to harness clean, low-cost energy.
the only way to meet our climate targets is to massively expand renewables.
but let us invest in energy that does not require fuel and that cannot be affected by geopolitical upheavals.
renewable energy cannot be turned into a commodity or a pawn in power politics.
if the proposals we make in this report had been addressed earlier, we would not be complaining about high energy prices these days, nor would we be afraid of sitting in the cold and in the dark.
unlike many of my predecessors here, i have serious concerns about the further expansion of offshore wind energy, not only in terms of fisheries and environmental protection, as has already been mentioned, but also in terms of the development of energy prices.
the cost of offshore wind energy is also not competitive and must be supported by expensive subsidies, which only further distorts the market.
the enlargement to 2030 would require an additional investment of between 120 and 192 billion euros, which we want to pay to our citizens who are already crying out for electricity, because what they are really after is not affordable energy but megaprojects run by a small lobby that is getting smaller every day.
this means tens of millions of new migrants by 2040, because climate change and abortion rights are also supposed to be grounds for asylum.
and this is not just an environmental problem, it's a health problem.
in other words, we must optimize the substances we use not only in terms of their function, but also in terms of their impact on the environment and health.
we must work hand in hand to support sustainable development, promote peace and combat climate change, which is devastating on both sides and threatening food security, in order to achieve the 2030 development goals.
and above all, we want to achieve the goals for which the people of europe and africa have elected us: safety and health, a profession that ensures a livelihood, political participation and freedom, and a clean environment.
now, this may sound very special, but we're talking a lot about climate change here.
they may not fight with weapons, they use the power of the word, they need a lot of persistence, but they are the only key we have to a sustainable change on the ground.
we are asking for the commitments made by the commission in the strategy on sustainable chemicals to be maintained, including on toys.
the review may also be an opportunity to explore the possibility of including durability and repairability elements in the labelling to increase sustainability aspects in toys as well, in line with the objectives of the circular economy.
this revision will also follow up on the commitments in our chemical strategy for sustainability.
that's at least 11.3 billion for pro-eu lobbying, because ngos are calling for more migration, more climate action, minority rights and more eu.
how do we make sure that we have a sustainable solution and we do not allow russia to repeat its threatening posture vis-à-vis ukraine and its other neighbours again and again and again?
and yes, we must start thinking about how to develop the minsk agreement beyond the mantra that we have been repeating so far, because we need a tool that is effective in the mid-term and in the long-term we will have to engage with russia where we can, but we must disengage where we must, and we must disengage also in the energy area.
our youth are actually afraid, but not of these real problems that i've been talking about, but of another problem: our youth are afraid of climate change.
and that's understandable, because we have declared a climate emergency.
they're afraid of dying in the future or soon because of climate change.
and the eu's climate policy is to blame for this madness.
and it goes on to say: the commission now intends to make environmental sustainability a core theme of general education.
look for a prosperous environment of hope and opportunities to earn a decent living, to be able to start a life and start a family.
as a society, we can't afford to let it go to waste.
there is no longer an independent judiciary, there is no real fight against corruption, especially against the corruption in viktor orbán's immediate environment.
i am all the more appalled to see what the eu is and what it values: it is important for the eu to recognise that women are disproportionately affected by climate change.
it is also important to promote the implementation of targeted gender equality measures in conjunction with gender mainstreaming in climate policy.
it also finds that women and girls are the most likely to be climate refugees, at 80%.
and also a huge scandal is that only 32% of the renewable energy workers are women.
the enemy of women is not climate change.
mr president, our response to climate change is a magnifying glass for gender discrimination around the world, but also in our own institutions.
eighty per cent of the people displaced by climate change are women.
while women are most affected by climate change, they receive the least support.
and even though women prioritise climate action higher than men, they still do not sit at the key decision—making tables.
so when it comes to climate change or climate action, we are doing the same old mistakes on resources and representation.
mr president, madam commissioner, the covid-19 pandemic has prevented the implementation of effective climate action and has thus led to the exacerbation of already existing social and gender inequalities.
climate change and gender equality are linked.
gender inequality, associated with climate and environmental crises and disasters, disproportionately affects women who are victims of intersectional discrimination, such as women with disabilities, black women and older women.
with climate change, many women have found themselves in situations of extreme vulnerability and precariousness.
we are also concerned that the adverse effects of climate change, often accompanied by a deterioration in the socioeconomic situation of women, could lead to serious violations of their fundamental rights.
the european union must therefore adopt a clear and unified position on how to achieve gender equality in the context of the fight against climate change.
only through the meaningful and effective participation of women and girls, in all their diversity, in decision-making bodies at all levels will we achieve a real climate transition.
the great opportunity for an eu-wide toll system that is both socially just and good for the environment is being squandered with this reform.
the climate emergency is so great that 72% of co2 emissions from transport are still attributable to the road.
– madam president, commissioner ferreira, dear colleagues and most importantly, dear europeans, currently we are facing two devastating crises: the climate crisis, but most importantly, of course, russian war on european soil.
we want to become independent from russian fossil fuels by extending our energy efficiency and renewable energies like wind and solar.
when we put this question for oral answer some time ago, no one could have imagined that we would not be discussing prices today but whether we will be able to heat our homes and supply our industry with energy in the european union next winter.
it is now taking its revenge for the delay in the expansion of renewable energy and the failure to put a stop to the waste of energy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe.
that is why we need an emergency plan now to expand renewable energy - no roof without solar energy - to modernise the energy of the most poorly insulated buildings, to provide free energy advice, especially for low-income households, and to promote energy advice, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are suffering very much from high prices.
we need urgent procedures for the examination of all state aid to promote the development of renewable energy and efficiency measures.
it cannot be that a law like the new renewable energy law in germany is under consideration until december 2022 before it is approved.
mrs simson, you have thankfully mentioned the subject of citizen energy and its importance.
in the view of german economists, ecological policy contributes as much as one third to the rate of inflation.
even the ecb's director, isabel schnabel, has now admitted that climate rescue is driving inflation.
for 16 years, it was angela merkel who decided to give up nuclear power and save the climate in germany.
the energy supply must be secured in the short term and the dependence on fossil fuels must be reduced in a consistent manner.
the eu needs a new energy policy.
people are suffering from high energy prices, and companies are afraid of losing their competitiveness, their existence.
we know that energy policy is security policy.
we have to reduce our energy needs.
we need more energy efficiency and 100 percent renewable energy as soon as possible.
investing now in indirect electrification and green production technologies, in energy efficiency to save directly on gas imports: that is the way to a competitive industry!
we are now calling on the commission to finally take more action on energy efficiency, to withdraw the delegated act on taxonomy and, above all, to present an emergency plan for a rapid energy transition.
we need a strong european framework for carbon differentiation agreements and more pace and ambition for a sustainable energy policy.
because it's good for our safety, good for the climate, good for the environment.
this is what we do in external action because we know that it works, because there’s ample evidence to prove that the economic, social and ecological outcome is better when women take the decisions.
in ukraine and all areas of violent conflict, we must ensure that women and girls’ needs are addressed, that women as human rights defenders and as members of the armed forces are protected, and that women’s role for a sustainable and peaceful tomorrow is strengthened.
gender equality is not only a fundamental human right, but a necessary prerequisite for a peaceful, prosperous and sustainable world.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by irene tinagli, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the european semester for economic coordination: annual report on sustainable growth 2022 (2022/2006 ((ini)) (a9-0034/2022) and by helmut geuking, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the european semester for economic coordination: employment and social policy aspects in the annual strategy for sustainable growth 2022 (2021/2233 ((ini)) (a9 0040/2022).
it's a report on sustainable economic growth after covid-19.
we must continue to boost employment, support businesses and invest in energy independence.
it is about the eu's climate neutrality goals.
sustainable economic growth should be the goal of an inclusive and sustainable socio-ecological transformation of our economy socio-ecological transformation!
to help these people who are falling into poverty, who can no longer afford the energy, who can no longer afford their housing, we set up a social climate fund.
the maastricht criteria should moderate governments, prevent waste of money and protect citizens and their savings.
we must use all the means at our disposal to stop european energy imports from russia and act with determination.
firstly, to seriously strengthen our foreign and defence policy - fortunately, we are already on that track - secondly, to diversify our energy supplies, that is to say, to drastically reduce our dependence on putin's russia; thirdly, to strengthen our relations with the united states, with an administration, like that of biden, much more sensitive and close to european interests than the previous administration.
on energy, we have to understand that it’s going to hurt.
russia is a major supplier of natural gas to the eu and the current energy crisis has further strengthened its market position as europe is experiencing its worst energy crisis since 1973. since the end of the autumn, the market price of natural gas has skyrocketed and the price of crude oil is at its highest level in years.
the support for putin's war crimes at the expense of europeans should not be ignored, but self-sufficiency should be increased by investing in renewable energy sources.
energy security must be at the heart of the eu's strategic autonomy.
to start with, a secure and stable supply of energy.
the commission’s long-term push towards the liberalisation of the energy markets is, in this current juncture, showing major weaknesses.
energy supplies and their security cannot be left to the management of private interests operating under ‘free’ market conditions.
i agree with the estonian prime minister that we must reduce our energy dependence on russian gas and oil and strengthen european defence linked to nato.
because, contrary to claims to the contrary, batteries are not particularly sustainable, co2-free or environmentally friendly, which is partly what this regulation is trying to change - and i think that is welcome.
instead of the certification of the carbon footprint of batteries that i have requested by mid-2023, it is only to be left with a carbon declaration one year later.
the fact that a recycling rate is being used to deal with the enormous ecological damage, but also with the foreseeable economic dependence, is at best a nice attempt.
so my conclusion is that another grand political blunder in the name of climate, with subsequent legislation, is likely to fail.
the decarbonisation of our economy, the phase-out of fossil fuels and the massive expansion of renewable energy since putin's terrible war of aggression against ukraine, i think, makes it clear to the latter that we need the green transformation not only for our climate, but also for our strategic sovereignty.
huge industrial batteries store the renewable electricity and feed it into the grid.
whether imported or manufactured, all these batteries require raw materials, and their extraction often leads to human rights violations and environmental destruction.
i have campaigned - and we have worked hard in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection - for a stricter battery regulation and for mandatory human rights and environmental protection along the supply chains.
we have improved the commission proposal so that all batteries sold on the internal market are produced with clean energy.
after all, 70% of a battery's emissions come from the production phase, and many batteries today are made using coal power and other fossil fuels.
madam president, the regulation modernises the eu’s regulatory framework for batteries and aims, among other things, at strengthening the internal market, while reducing the environmental impact of batteries.
too high environmental and social standards, combined with shorter deadlines, risk hindering customers choice to switch to zero—emission vehicles.
consequently, new, greener and more ethical batteries would ultimately, and paradoxically, not become an effective tool to combat climate change.
sustainable batteries and vehicles underpin the mobility of the future, and swift progress is crucial to enhancing the sustainability of the emerging battery value chain.
the current battery supply chain is not very sustainable, although batteries are highly recyclable due to the nature of the critical materials inside of them.
new measures for batteries are crucial for the transition to a circular and climate-neutral economy.
it is crucial we solve this waste-to-scrap problem.
i have to say, madam president, the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one.
the right to repair, sustainability criteria, battery due diligence, the value chain with a clear focus on social and environmental standards and a mandatory share for recycled raw materials such as lithium are all real successes in the european parliament's demand, and critical raw materials can contribute to greenhouse gas reduction in green technologies.
a european industry with green production technologies embedded in a circular economy is possible, and a circular economy is the need of the hour from an industrial policy point of view, from a climate and environmental policy point of view and now also from a geopolitical point of view in the face of the war in europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this regulation on batteries, on waste and on how they are to be treated is actually a key report in the field of circular economy.
we still have a lot of catching up to do on environmental and safety issues.
for example, for various types of batteries, there are no recyclers in europe, i'm talking about lithium-iron-phosphate batteries, which are thrown into mixed waste.
this approach, despite several calls for change by the commission, is not environmentally friendly and concrete changes are needed that are sustainable and lead to further recycling of batteries.
battery technology is a key part of our climate goals.
we need more and more, but the extraction of raw materials and the recycling rates are far from sustainable.
it's not sustainable if it's cheaper to buy a new device than to put in a new battery.
the eu battery regulation allows us to set new global environmental and human rights standards when these rules are binding and enforceable.
we need to be clear: there can be no sustainable use of batteries and accumulators if we don't guarantee human rights standards and environmental standards.
madam president, the importance of independence with regard to energy supply has been made painfully obvious by the russian invasion of ukraine.
we must use this pivotal moment – as we transition away from combustion engines to electrification – to become more energy independent.
the amount of batteries the eu will need will increase immensely in the coming years, and we must not simply switch our dependence from fossil fuels to dependence on rare materials from regions that are problematic when it comes to democracy, human rights and the environment.
to be energy independent, we must instead create a circular economy for batteries.
for me personally, besides these environmental reasons, there is a very strong geopolitical reason, which we all feel and which is being debated at various points during this session of the european parliament, and that is that we should greatly limit the future import of raw materials from russia, and thereby weaken the influence of putin's dictatorship on european countries.
our goals of sustainable product design and more independent supply chains will become a reality.
empty batteries and batteries that are no longer functional are not just waste, but important raw materials that we want to keep, collect and recycle in the eu in the future.
we are voting today on the outcome of the trilogue on the eighth environmental action programme, and for the first time in a european legislative text the need to end subsidies for fossil fuels is enshrined.
fifty years after the first club of rome report, it is high time to redirect these funds towards a sustainable economy that ensures a habitable planet for our children and grandchildren.
because the focus on gdp has blinded us to what's wrong with our society and also with the environment.
now in the future, there will be progress reports beyond gdp, which include important indicators like resource consumption, like circular economy, like pollution, like health.
we shall be examining the commission's proposals in detail so that this environmental action programme can have an impact.
over the past decades, eu environmental policy has brought significant benefits to both people and the planet.
i therefore welcome the eighth environment action programme for european environmental policy up to 2030, with its ambitious goals and plans for people and our planet.
but the criminal putin war in ukraine is posing huge challenges to europe: food security and energy supplies are in danger.
– mr president, times are changing and new emerging challenges, such as digitalisation and climate change, are highly affecting the way we work.
finally, yet importantly, we call on the commission to look into the potential risks due to climate change in occupational settings.
but german coal mining has not only provided secure jobs, but also energy security for our country.
because german coal is the only domestic energy.
yes, and the ultimate enemy we must also face in the field of safety at work is climate change.
so climate change is now threatening us in the workplace as well.
but the main reason now is that climate change is particularly bad for skin diseases.
three examples: first, climate change is now blamed for an increase in skin cancer.
the ecological footprint is huge.
the textile sector - and this has just been said - is responsible for one tenth of the world's co2 emissions.
these problems show that a strategy for sustainable textiles must address the environmental but also the human rights issues.
we also need a genuine circular economy for textiles in our internal market, longer durability, effective reduction targets for material consumption and emissions, high collection rates and finally more recycling and recycling!
the environmental footprint of the jeans or the jacket that consumers buy must be made clear to them.
responsible and sustainable consumption is important to many consumers.
because the textile industry accounts for about 10% of global emissions, more than air and sea transport combined.
but clothing also has an ecological and social footprint.
for these patients, going to dialysis three times a week, which is a time-consuming, strenuous and expensive exercise, and which also uses up a lot of energy and consumes a lot of plastic waste and lot of water, that should be our push for action.
by the way: the federal government can cost its migration policy at least 60 billion euros per year, and the climate rescue and energy policy alone cost the germans already over 100 billion euros per year.
while we waste hundreds of billions of dollars every year on world-saving projects, we must ask here in the european parliament today for adequate funds for 100 million people who are in dire need of health care.
madam president, never let a good crisis go to waste.
we are told the war is fuelling energy and food price explosions because we are too dependent on russian gas and oil.
the eu’s conclusion: to end russian energy imports and to accelerate the green transition.
the truth is, without russian energy, the lights would go out over most of europe and energy prices would rise sky high – not because of delays over the green deal, but because of the green deal and because germany, when president von der leyen – who’s now slipped away – was still a minister under merkel, decided it would quit reason and be the first happy-go-lucky, hippy, green industrial power without nuclear energy and fossil fuels at one and the same time.
why does the european commission not invite eu citizens to submit their energy bills to the commission and indicate how much more they are willing to pay for the green deal, or whether they would prefer the commission to use that money instead to pick up their energy bills.
and to protect ourselves it is of course essential that we deal with energy supply and food supply, and in the case of energy supply that this council has a special plan for interconnections throughout europe, from the iberian peninsula to greece, from northern germany to the adriatic.
we expect a signal to our families, to our businesses, by putting in place common gas purchases and a ceiling on energy prices.
we are too dependent on fossil energy, and we are paying into your war machine.
but it is not possible, if we are to continue your energy politics, that we will pay so much.
we need urgent, targeted measures to prevent more surges of energy prices.
the council must look at vat and energy tax rates immediately, and the commission should adopt extraordinary measures to allow subsidies to alleviate energy policy and wean ourselves off russian fossil fuels as soon as possible.
a common european approach to energy, cooperation on energy storage and common energy purchasing - these are the guarantees that, as in the pandemic, so in this crazy russian war, we can manage the situation together.
at the same time as the exemption from vat on armaments is being proposed, millions of people are faced with unbearable speculative increases in energy and fuel prices, along with the general increase in the cost of living.
many of the honourable members have been referring to the very important issues of energy – our dependence on fossil fuels coming from russia and the need to reshape our system as quickly as possible.
i am glad that here we are not starting from scratch and i was working with many of you on the energy union in the previous mandate.
and i have to say that your work, your support, was so crucial for us having now the world interconnected, an energy security network, and it helps us a lot in these very difficult geopolitical circumstances.
i also recognise the need to tackle high energy prices, which are hitting our households and businesses and therefore we adopted a series of options for the leaders to debate tomorrow.
to answer the honourable member, i totally agree with him that the cleanest energy is the energy which is saved.
therefore, we see this as an opportunity to accelerate green-energy build-up, to reduce energy consumption and increase energy efficiency.
i am very glad that now we have legally binding targets when it comes to energy efficiency and by 2030 we would increase it by 36-39% and reduce our energy consumption by 9%.
we will have to continue this effort, as many have stressed, including on the energy issue, of course.
this means improving our defence capabilities and our sovereignty capabilities - we have often said and carried out this in the energy and agri-food sectors.
yes, we must do it more quickly, as has been repeatedly emphasized in the energy field, and not just for the next few weeks.
we must reduce our dependence on fossil fuels, particularly from russia, in a rapid and sustainable manner.
energy will be very important in the discussions of the european summit which has been mentioned and which will therefore take place tomorrow and the day after tomorrow.
hungary does not support the extension of eu sanctions to the energy sector.
a proposal to sanction energy from russia would make it impossible to maintain a united european approach and would impose a disproportionate, almost unbearable burden on hungary and some other eu countries.
the security of energy supply is a priority, and for us, the safety of the hungarian people comes first.
we spanish socialists underline the strength of european unity and call for all efforts to be concentrated not only on maintaining pressure on putin but also on strengthening the strategic autonomy of the european union in energy and defence.
we advocate in the medium and long term diversifying energy supplies, increasing interconnections, creating strategic reserves, launching joint gas purchases and accelerating the pace of renewable energy installations.
and in the short term, we call for urgent decisions to alleviate the economic consequences of this war which are already being felt in the pockets of european citizens, mainly in the shopping basket and in the energy bill.
that is why our farmers need exceptional, flexible, rapid and temporary measures to help them produce, but of course without compromising the european green deal roadmap, which will prevent the deterioration of our ecosystems and biodiversity and will undoubtedly make european agriculture much more sustainable, resilient and of course independent.
the 'farmer to plate' strategy and the biodiversity strategy are undermining food production.
this is necessary to reduce our dependence on carbon-intensive and expensive chemical fertilisers and to use biogas as an alternative energy source.
when this brutal war started in the middle of europe, the first reaction of a commission representative was that putin wanted to distract from the climate problem and that parliament was abusing the putin war by calling for more production.
this is sustainable policy.
the vote will take place on thursday 24 march 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs angelika winzig, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on roaming on public mobile networks in the union (recast) (com (2021) 0085 c9-0085/2021 2021/0045cod)) (a90286/2021).
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the council and commission statements on 'the eu's energy' and 'a common european approach to more affordable, secure and sustainable energy' (2022/2589 ((rsp)).
the answer to the energy crisis cannot be that we subsidize fossil fuels unconditionally.
accelerate aid procedures for efficiency measures and for renewable energy.
help member states to get citizens' energy moving across europe.
don't finance this war with your climate-polluted lifestyles!
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on energy, research and technology.
finally, put the turbo in the expansion of renewable energy and the reduction of the consumption of coal, oil and gas.
we realise how much we need the policy sphere, public money and strategic private investment to make the shift away from fossil fuels to renewable happen.
yet, the energy charter treaty (ect) is keeping us back, and i think we have a big, big unity on that in the european union.
the ect is a danger for the green deal and the energy transition, and we need an urgent solution to this problem.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the sixth assessment report of the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) (2022/2574 ((rsp)).
written declarations (article 171 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr cyrus engerer, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council amending decision (eu) 2015/1814 as regards the quantity of allowances to be placed in the market stability reserve for the union greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme until 2030 (com ((2021) 0571 c9-0325/2021 2021/0202 ((cod)) (a009-452022).
what we need for this is strong climate policies to move away from fossils and move to 100% renewables.
i cannot understand those who call now for a stop or pause of europe's co2 trading scheme – our most powerful climate policy tool.
he fears an energy-independent europe, so let’s build it.
climate policies must not fall victim to putin's war.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the eu is currently responsible for about 8-9% of global co2 emissions and this share, on current trends, could fall to around 5-6% in 2030. in this context, the green deal and the 'ready for 55%' package, of which the ets report is part, are in practice an industrial revolution with the goal of zero emissions.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate change strategy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate change strategy.
instead, effective measures must be put in place to counter any speculative behaviour on the carbon market that unduly harms the operators of the ets.
in a very unstable international environment, with serious risks to energy supplies and exponentially rising costs, we risk damaging the competitiveness of our companies by such measures, putting valuable jobs at risk, when the real polluters are outside europe.
successful climate action is only possible if the different approaches to climate change are combined.
the key approach to a climate-friendly and greenhouse gas-neutral future is technological solutions and forward-looking innovation.
this will ensure value creation at the location of the business and will also limit global warming.
emissions trading alone is not going to solve the problem of global warming.
because a system that allows emissions and allows emissions trading is always open to question.
higher prices do not automatically lead to better climate protection, but they deprive companies of liquidity for much-needed investments.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the crisis in the former yugoslavia.
on the other hand, we need much more renewable technologies to provide climate-friendly energy even faster.
but today we are voting on a regulation on transeuropean energy infrastructure which is out of date, cementing investment in fossil gas for years, if not decades.
in the case of gas, there are methane emissions, which the ipcc also says must be reduced by at least a third by 2030. there are also good points in this regulation - they have been mentioned - but with this framework far too much funding will go to fossil projects and not to the future.
but for that we need interconnectors and we need a european energy market, especially in the electricity sector.
the french are blocking very vehemently in the pyrenees the access of the iberian peninsula to the european energy market.
i think this is extremely un-european of a president who can happily put his people's money into nuclear power stations, but cannot ask the whole of europe to block the expansion of renewable energy.
instead, the president of france and above all the commission must work to ensure that france finally makes these interconnectors possible and that we have a real european energy market and thus gain independence and above all be able to support ukraine in the war.
but we also need to continue to tackle the big transformation challenges of digitisation and decarbonisation, which have not become less important, even in the current political environment.
without immediate and decisive reductions in emissions, the 1.5°c target will no longer be achievable.
there are many climate actions, and the cost of the energy transition is falling.
we are calling for adequate funding for climate, biodiversity and environmental protection programmes such as the life fund.
we are strengthening the climate and biodiversity tracking method across the budget, but we are also strengthening the rule of law conditional.
the situation in energy has changed drastically and we need to address this with the urgency it requires.
energy has been used for geopolitical purposes by russia for a long time.
if you read the world climate council’s comments yesterday and today, you’re aware of that.
but within the resilience part, i would emphasise stronger european defence and a conducive environment for our single market, focusing on the modern elements that we need, for example, hydrogen, for example, semi-conductors.
but the general approach – european green deal, digital and resilience – is the right one, with new emphasis in the resilience part on defence and on the conducive economic environment.
how do we deal with the question of the energy union?
on the energy front, you have said that the only credible strategy for independence is to focus on renewables and energy savings, and i welcome that.
the agro-industrial lobby claims that only intensive agriculture based on fertilisers and pesticides can ensure our food security, when the truth is that agroecology is not only capable of feeding us, but that it is the only one capable of doing so by absorbing rather than emitting carbon, and restoring rather than slaughtering biodiversity.
so moving away from fossil fuels into renewables and thus moving forward in the european green deal is not only a necessity because of climate change we have to fight, but it is also a strategic investment in security.
what is true for energy is true for agriculture: we will have to free our agriculture from its dependence on fossil fuels.
and our families and smes are already feeling the consequences of these incredibly high energy prices.
how will the commission ensure, in this economic environment, that we couldn’t have foreseen, when fit for 55 was put on the table, that we will deliver on fit for 55 with the objectives that we have for 2030, 2050?
– rightly so, you were mentioning the high energy prices as really pressing families and businesses.
what is the high energy price and high electricity price all about?
as you know, rightly so i think, 20 years ago when we designed the common energy and electricity market, it was decided that, first of all, the renewables – at that time a small share – were pushed into the electricity market, then the other different kinds of energy would follow, and at the very end comes the most expensive energy source.
but this most expensive energy source that comes into the market then is defining the price.
then you have topics like the nuclear that is coming in, you have other energy sources and, in the very end, gas – not a big share anymore – is coming in and dominating the price.
the other topic is to look at the composition of the energy market.
having said that, this is, implicitly of course, also advocating that fit for 55, with the goal to honour the european green deal and the climate law that we have concluded all together, is absolutely the right way to go.
we have the social climate fund.
but you are right, in the mid-term this transition from fossil fuels into renewables has to be accompanied by a social climate fund.
there are incomes that, of course, can afford to move easily into the new clean way to use energy.
and these households need the support of all of us, and this is embedded in the social climate fund.
i mean, the drama of the climate crisis is the so-called horizon.
it is our responsibility to tell people also the difference they can look forward with the european green deal with a successful fight against climate change, but also what might happen if we are not successful.
and we all have to work very hard that besides the incredible impact that this war has on us, and that is besides the fact that it has taken, rightly so, all our attention and all our energy, we don’t lose focus on the huge crisis that is looming in the background, and that is the climate crisis.
the vote will take place on thursday 7 april 2022. the president of the commission written declarations (article 171 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs angelika niebler, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european data governance (data governance act) (com (2020) 0767 c9-0377/2020 2020/0340 (cod)) (a9-0248/2021).
the ippc has just reminded us that we only have three years to drastically reduce our co2 emissions.
and that means data is the source for climate-friendly urban transport planning or breakthroughs in medical research, but also for very profitable business models.
the vote will take place today, wednesday, april 6, 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the global approach to research and innovation: europe's strategy for international cooperation in a changing world, by cristian-silviu buşoi, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-000013/2022 b9-0011/22) (2021/3001 ((rsp)).
the shift away from fossil and nuclear energy towards a green industrial strategy is now, of course, also an urgent geopolitical task.
only in the best possible cooperation can we achieve the eu's strategic autonomy with a sustainable and competitive industrial policy.
it was angela merkel who did everything to make germany dependent on russia for energy policy and who made sure that putin had the money that this house rightly wants to take away from him now.
and berlin and brussels waste taxpayers' money a hundred times more recklessly than hungary.
the european union is also committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment, and to the protection of the environment and the environment.
all smart phones together in europe are responsible for 40 million tonnes of emissions each year.
this is more than the carbon budget of latvia.
yet most of us throw this precious device away after not even three years, and the result of this is 4 billion tonnes of electronic waste per year in the eu alone and the fastest growing waste stream in the world.
last week, the european commission presented the ecodesign for sustainable products regulation.
mandatory sustainability criteria for all products in the single market – this can be the end of the throwaway society.
i highly welcome these overdue steps, and i think we really can come to a proper, sustainable single market with that.
we want to enable consumers to make a sustainable choice.
so, more sustainable products and more rights to consumers have to go hand in hand.
consumers must become the driving force of the green transition of the sustainable single market.
i think you said we will do whatever it takes to bring solar energy production back to europe so i hope that also means an ipci.
currently, the commission is proposing to go to 40% renewable energy by 2030. our studies show that we can go to up to 57% and not be dependent on russian oil and gas.
so are you proposing to increase the renewable energy share for europe for the year 2030?
my questions relate to the objectives of our european energy policy.
but among the eight scenarios modelled by the commission, there is not a single one that reflects 100% renewable energy, although such scenarios have already been modelled by other research institutions and several actors outside the commission.
moreover, none of these scenarios illustrate how greater citizen participation in the energy transition could accelerate the process.
if we want smart, active consumers being part of the electricity market, we, of course, would need a smart meter rollout in order for them to be able to sell their energy.
so my question is when will the commission act on this and put a bit more pressure on member states to get going on the digitalisation of the energy sector?
they want a more social, more sustainable, more democratic union.
as we phase out russian oil and gas, putin will only intensify cyber-attacks on our energy sector.
we're finally moving beyond our comfort zone in the energy sector.
the energy embargo on europe will not pass without a trace.
the sahel countries need coordination between security, climate and development policies, and this is one of the major challenges facing these countries.
our response must be a comprehensive approach and address the great complexity of conflicts and the links between poverty, lack of access to basic social services, climate change, terrorism, intercommunal violence, food security and gender-based violence and displacement.
but now they are going to subsidize climate change and the green transition without any basis in the eu treaties.
because the green transformation goes far beyond environmental protection.
but what if the rest of the world doesn't join in the climate rescue?
with a share of around 7% of global co2 emissions, the eu's climate impact is zero.
coal, the black gold, the source or rather the roots of the eu and the source of our prosperity, is for this parliament nothing but black dirt and the great climate killer.
i see it quite differently: we need secure energy.
we need affordable energy.
we need a renaissance of coal and nuclear power for safe energy, for affordable energy, for safe jobs.
increased energy consumption and limited housing options are challenges that moldova can solve only with the assistance of the eu.
this is a flagrant breach of the habitats directive, which the environment dg cannot tolerate.
poverty, corruption and energy dependency make moldova vulnerable.
they've convinced people that climate change is the end of the world.
you can impose your redistribution agenda undisturbed, and when the young one day finds that they remain poor and cannot reproduce the living standards of their parents, then it is not you and your devastating policies that are to blame, but the oh-so-spongy climate change, which we are all somehow to blame for.
who could possibly have something against biodiversity, sustainability and the future of the planet?
we need affordable, secure energy, and the only way to achieve this is to reduce ideology and to diversify the energy mix across europe, open to technology, for the benefit of all countries and all citizens.
in march the commission was still considering which autocrat it would next appeal to for fossil energy.
save energy, switch to renewables and then look where we need to look for more fossils.
the main thing is to save money: it reduces our dependence, it relieves our citizens and businesses, and it brings sustainable climate protection.
we're still waiting for the implementation of the citizens' energy rights from the last legislature's clean energy package.
the commission must finally call on and encourage the member states to step on their toes, but also give them a blueprint for how best to implement this package, so that each and every one of them can invest in renewables, share their energy with their neighbours and stand up to putin together.
putin's greatest fear is an energy-independent europe.
and with repowereu, we have made a historic decision: we are using our european energy resources, solar and wind.
we are moving towards 100% renewable energy.
they propose to finance the energy transition by increasing co2 emissions.
i ask you all not to block ambitious climate action!
whereas sun tzu and clausewitz used to be taught, climate ideology is now to be taught in the field of defence.
one of them is, seriously, that the expansion of an army must not lead to an increased carbon footprint.
it even calls for governments to submit military emissions reports to the un and national parliaments.
let us instead agree on something that makes sense and is feasible, such as the inclusion of an ecological perspective in future decisions, for example in peacetime exercises.
if we are to emerge victorious from future crises or even wars, we need better strategy, equipment and fighting power, not a better carbon footprint.
i have to say, madam president, according to a study by the zurich university of technology, the most effective measure to save the climate is to reforest the earth's surface.
one third more of the world's forest land would absorb two thirds of the carbon produced industrially.
with 10 percentage points of afforestation, germany and the eu could make their contribution to saving the climate.
with 2 and 8 percent of global co2 emissions, our impact on the world's climate is zero.
the result cannot therefore be climate rescue, but only the end of our competitiveness.
the commission is not this is a big deal today: the eu's climate package, the "fit for 55" package.
achieving the paris climate goals is vital for the survival of our planet.
and in times of war in europe, we need energy security and a massive expansion of renewable energy.
pricing of emissions from imported goods and co2 compensation in parallel with the use of free pollution certificates is a positive incentive for change, for decarbonisation.
we are calling for climate treaties to bring new technologies on the road as soon as possible.
the social climate fund is now targeting structural and direct investment in energy and mobility poverty, precisely where it hurts people in europe the most, and especially when the emissions trading system is extended to the buildings and transport sectors.
climate justice, green industrial policy and social justice must go hand in hand.
this is the only way to achieve the best for the climate and the people of europe.
we are discussing today a milestone on the road to climate neutrality.
we also support open technology and climate neutrality.
i ask you: how do you explain to your constituents that the forests are dying on their doorstep and that you will vote tomorrow against climate policies that will curb this?
how will you explain to your voters that tomorrow you will vote with the conservatives and the right wing of marine le pen against the climate emergency - the climate emergency we all declared here almost two years ago, after extreme droughts, deforestation and record temperatures?
let's break free from putin's fossil shackles with europe's latest climate technologies: solar and wind power, battery factories and heat pumps.
emissions trading can do that.
clean economy is rewarded, and then the co2 pollution party is finally over.
but one thing is really important: we need to have a just climate transformation.
that means rich people can still afford to pollute the climate, whereas poor people not.
that is fair climate policy.
the height of idiocy and ideology is reached when the taxpayer is graciously left with a tiny part of the squeezed co2 compulsory education tax in the form of a climate social fund political good behaviour to alleviate their energy poverty.
madam president, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, dear commissioner, finally, for the very first time, we do have a social climate fund.
finally, for the very first time, we in the eu are not only talking about poverty, we are acting against poverty – energy and mobility poverty.
that is why we need this new social climate fund to help those who are most in need and provide structural change for them.
as the scope of the new social climate fund is limited, we greens want to focus it on the most vulnerable groups: people in poverty, households, transport users and small entrepreneurs like the single mum in hungary who cannot pay her energy bills anymore, the family in the countryside that does not have public transport available to reach the city and is now struggling with the gas prices.
in the long term we do not want to invest in fossil fuels, but in projects that will help both in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and help households to save energy, switch to green energies and build local transport solutions.
a last saying in german, because i followed the debate here and there about the whole change in climate, in germany, we say:wer nicht mit der zeit geht, der geht mit der zeit.
we are talking about the european social fund for the climate.
the expansion of emissions trading to transport and housing alone adds €1 112 billion to the burden on european households.
in view of the crisis, we know that we need a secure and affordable source of energy, and that comes from coal and nuclear power.
some political forces in this parliament and also parts of industry are happy to use the fears of the people - food shortages, higher energy prices, the combustion engine - to undermine the ambitions of the 'fit for 55' package.
we need a change in european climate policy.
and that's why it's so important that all sectors do their part to reduce emissions.
with a higher target for carbon removal, we're providing incentives to sustainably transform forestry, to restore ecosystems to good condition.
because in order to fight the climate crisis, we need both: reducing emissions in all sectors of the economy and, of course, negative emissions.
because compensating for failed emissions reductions by planting a few trees is like hitting the snooze button on the alarm clock.
because not only with the climate and social fund do we make a social green deal, not only by putting things off, but by embedding the social in the regulations we are adopting here.
and it is these principles that we are reinforcing in the reports from the environment committee.
the 'fit for 55' package must remain our roadmap to a climate-neutral europe.
a study i commissioned shows that even today, in times of climate crisis and species loss, well over half of the eu member states still use felling as a standard method of harvesting timber.
whole areas of forest are being cut down, and the forest floor is becoming a carbon emitter for decades.
firstly, i am committed to technological neutrality which should encourage more research and innovation and more alternatives to achieve climate neutrality for cars and vans.
i also propose a realistic estimate of emissions which includes those produced from the manufacture to the recycling of a vehicle and not just those from its operation.
finally, because the uncertainties which are currently paralysing the renewal of the existing fleet must be removed and replaced by a cleaner and more efficient fleet which is already available and which will lead to an immediate reduction in emissions and from whose mobilisation manufacturers must obtain the main part of the resources to finance this transition.
the importance of healthy ecosystems was very clearly stated by the unfccc in its latest report: restoring and ending the destruction of ecosystems are central to all climate change mitigation scenarios and essential to adapting to its consequences.
no one disputes that technological progress is imperative on the road to climate neutrality.
so do not let anyone tell you that you can save a forest by cutting down trees, and vote tomorrow at lulucf for the position of the environment committee!
so, can the restrictive climate policy assumptions of the 'get ready for 55' package mitigate this situation?
will the left in this chamber take responsibility for the deepening energy poverty that will affect europeans as a result of the measures being introduced?
and we should also be honest and do a life-cycle assessment, a life-cycle assessment, and not just measure co2 emissions at the end of the day.
mr president, commissioner, the search for a solution to climate protection is like a system of equations with several unknowns.
third unknown: why are we neglecting solutions that cost nothing and protect the climate?
i am thinking in particular of energy savings, sundays without cars, speed limits - i think this is a matter of political will.
fourth unknown: if we want to save the planet, how can we convince the rest of the world, which is responsible for 92% of greenhouse gas emissions, to make a strong commitment to do the same as the european union, and at the same pace?
that is why i end by asking the commissioner responsible for climate, mr timmermans, whether you are really being given the means you need to contribute to a global response.
not only are the emissions from refuelling ignored, but also the very significant co2 backpack of all traction batteries, which is generated during production or energy-intensive recycling.
they ignore the lack of charging infrastructure, they ignore the warnings from business, industry, technology and education, and instead they insist on a unilateral political commitment to electric mobility, which will not reduce co2 emissions in the near future, because it is based on the idea of abolishing individual mobility as not only historical guarantors of prosperity and freedom, but also the abolition of the car as private property.
according to the stockholm environment institute, no country is meeting its commitments under the paris agreement, and only one tenth of all environmental goals have been achieved since 1972. the greenhouse gas emissions from economic activities in the european union returned to levels higher than before the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic in the last quarter of 2021. at the same time, many europeans are asking whether, because of the war in ukraine, we should have revised our policy, or whether we have.
mr. president, with the ready to 55 legislative package, we are responding to climate change on the one hand and enshrining the commitments of the climate law and also the paris agreement.
we are tackling a number of areas that will affect our lives: on the one hand, energy efficiency, renewable energy sources, and on the other hand, the reduction of emissions in transport, buildings, industry.
we have to maintain technological neutrality, whether you want to talk about electricity generation, nuclear energy, or even modern internal combustion cars.
we must also take care of energy poverty and the competitiveness of the european economy.
but we must always remember that the rest of the world, which produces 90 percent of the emissions, must follow our efforts, or we will all fail together.
a clear yes to climate neutrality by 2050. but to want to prescribe certain technologies or to prohibit others is the wrong way to go.
but just because a battery electric vehicle has no exhaust doesn't mean it has no co2 emissions.
the emissions are going somewhere else.
and an internal combustion engine can be climate neutral if it is powered by synthetic fuels.
we have a unique opportunity: europe can be the first continent to become climate neutral.
we can preserve the quality of life and the environment for future generations.
by trading in emission allowances instead of bans, we are providing the right incentives and rewarding those who reduce co2 emissions.
the eu parliament calls on the commission and the member states to step up their efforts to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. the fact is that since 2010, co2 emissions in the eu have fallen by 14%, while global emissions have increased by 11%.
in 2010, the eu's share of global greenhouse gas emissions was over 10%; today it is 8.6%.
at the same time, however, between 2010 and 2019, china's co2 emissions increased by 21%.
china's share of global co2 emissions has thus increased from 27.5% to 30% and is expected to increase further in the next decade.
emissions in other so-called developing countries are also rising steadily.
conclusion: even if a de-developing eu achieves climate neutrality by 2050, global co2 emissions will have doubled by then.
if the eu were to take climate change seriously, it would have to abolish the privileged status (non-annex 1 status) of so-called 'developing countries', including china, which exempts them from binding emission reduction targets.
the massive increase in energy prices in germany is making the already enormous costs of the energy transition, which was completely misguided, even higher.
but the petition also talks about civil society, allegedly fighting disinformation and, of course, saving the climate.
they want to set up a climate fund.
but what does a climate fund have to do with security and defence policy?
i also believe that mobile people can build bridges that can help solve a wide range of problems, from disease to food security to inequality to climate change.
another point: social and environmental dumping is also an unfair practice.
during the negotiations with the council, it became clear that certain provisions on social and environmental standards in the eu procurement directive have never been used, and i think this is really a missed opportunity.
i think the eu and the member states have to get serious about applying the rules on truly sustainable procurement, and those rules should also be part of reciprocity considerations with third countries.
the extent to which investment and job creation for young people could help to change the political landscape and to soothe the social climate remains one of the issues we could discuss with our partners in nigeria at our next meetings with acp members.
the whole right, from berlusconi's ppe to the salvini and meloni groups, together with the liberals in renzi's group, have decided to protect the interests of the fossil fuel and polluting industry lobbies and to blow up the social climate fund, a fund aimed at helping the most vulnerable families and small entrepreneurs, those most exposed to the rises in utility bills and fuel.
madam president, i just want to give comment on the co2 emissions for cars and vans.
we want an energy union without deindustrialising the european continent, but making it climate neutral.
and that is why it is important that we also clearly identify the areas which are important and which are important to the citizens: namely a health union, an energy union.
secondly, energy policy.
our energy supply must be secured, diversified and climate-neutral throughout europe.
in conclusion, we as the european parliament and we as the epp want to make our unique peace and economic project sustainable and to make use of all the reform possibilities.
the resolution on illegal logging is another attempt by the eu to take over powers in the field of nature conservation, environmental protection and forestry.
and so it goes on: the keywords climate and biodiversity are designed to protect even more forest areas, thus depriving them of the sustainable management that has been successful for generations.
it is said that logging must be reduced to meet climate targets and the green deal.
we need to understand sustainability again.
the concept of sustainability was invented in forestry over 200 years ago.
we have thus obtained a truly diversified and sustainable forestry in central europe.
the commission has also proposed that the member states should retain responsibility for nature conservation, environmental protection and forestry.
this is a huge environmental, but also economic, damage.
and it's not just a disaster for soils, biodiversity or climate, it's also a disaster for local confidence in the rule of law.
if we made the principles of sustainable and conservative forestry binding across the eu, would we not be able to reduce illegal logging much more effectively?
the vote on the emissions trading system scheduled for today is listed as the first reading in the documents.
and we have seen that and we have also fought for the fact that no euro should actually go into any form of spending that would harm the environment.
first, we suggest in the report to end the protection of investments in fossil fuels or any other activities that pose significant harm to the environment and human rights – and cases against climate policies keep on piling up, delaying action, and costing millions to taxpayers.
investment must be channelled towards sustainable activities and away from those which are cooking our planet.
third, the report takes a clear position on the energy charter treaty.
that is such a big problem for our climate policies and today we say, crystal clear, an empty deal cannot satisfy this parliament, we need to exit this dirty treaty.
the rampant inflation in the eurozone has three reasons: first, the green deal; second, the explosion in energy prices as a result of the ukraine sanctions against russia; and third, the unrestrained expansion of the money supply.
and secondly, the goal is to become completely independent of natural gas and gas imports in order to achieve our paris climate goals.
we need to invest heavily in renewable energy and energy efficiency.
every single solar cell, every single wind turbine means energy security, means geostrategic independence and means decisive action against energy poverty.
the best gas storage facilities in europe in the long term are not those that are full, but those that are no longer there because of a successful energy transition with 100% renewable energy instead of fossil energy.
moreover, the slogan 'fighting the causes of the exodus' must not remain an advertising slogan, but must be translated into action, through a fair climate policy and a trade policy.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
with the highest inflation rate since the 1970s, this is not the time to waste energy and money on making the western balkans ‘fit for 55’.
madam president, the future that the european union is preparing for the people is already being lived through unemployment, energy poverty, punctuality, inflation and green taxes that finance green and digital business.
this dark future has the signature of the european union and all the governments in greece, including the current government of new democracy, which have promoted the criminal strategy of green transition, desalination and energy trading.
now, you are shedding crocodile tears over the precision that will be further enhanced as the consequences of sanctions against russia, which the people are paying for, are extended, as imports of expensive american liquefied natural gas, which is harmful to the environment but beneficial to the profits of greek shipowners, increase.
the main issues were how to further improve european integration in the fields of energy supply and security.
bread, fruit, vegetables, energy, electricity - everything is going to be more expensive.
and it's not just about energy poverty and energy insecurity, it's also about the fact that we have to take away people's fear, which is the fear that they can't pay their heating bills, the fear that the money they have in their pocket is going to be less every day because inflation is just going to explode.
it has already been said: energy prices are falling.
whether in the negotiations on the social climate fund, the minimum wage or the repeated failure to coordinate social security systems, file 883: member states are reluctant to take concrete action.
– mr president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, the social economy provides innovative solutions in education, health care, energy transition, housing and the delivery of social services.
it can also be a pioneer in local green deals by creating alliances in territories involving citizens and enterprises in the climate transition.
improvements to the enabling environment are urgently needed to allow social economy entities to operate effectively across europe, particularly through a common eu—level definition.
the commission wants to make care climate-neutral.
and i’ll be very brief in trying to make the circle to come back to where we started, because the question was eu ambitions on biodiversity ahead of cop 15. and i think if we’ll look at the restoration law which you presented last week, it is already quite good.
and especially, how can it be perceived in the global south that the eu, or generally spoken the global north, does not come forward as colonialist, telling the global south how to act on biodiversity?
in other words, we have an excellent compass for europe's energy transition and we are now working on it because the decaying french nuclear plants are in dire need of money for renovation.
he's already rubbing his hands because he can sell his gas as sustainable in the future and he'll make billions more.
do not destroy europe's seal of approval for the financial sector, our seal of approval for europe's energy independence from putin!
– i would be very interested in knowing how nuclear energy can actually lower the prices for our citizens because, as i just told you, in the uk nuclear energy is only viable when you pay a premium which is about three times the premium which is paid for wind or solar energy.
i listened very carefully to the previous speakers and virtually all those who opposed the rejection of the delegated act did so on the grounds of security of supply, of rising energy prices.
the aim of the taxonomy was to implement a common european understanding of what constitutes a sustainable investment.
a taxonomy that labels nuclear power and fossil gas as sustainable has nothing to do with this objective.
only where sustainable is in, must also be sustainable on.
let us not mislead consumers who want to invest in sustainable financial products.
climate policy is security policy.
putin would benefit from the taxonomy and lose the climate.
it is no coincidence that the russian energy companies gazprom, rosatom and lukoil are among the biggest lobbyists for von der leyen's taxonomy proposal.
it was a mistake, commissioner mcguinness, to make this proposal - security, finance and climate policy.
the eu taxonomy now has the chance to become a real eu gold standard, a benchmark for sustainable investment.
we need a taxonomy that is really credible, a label that says, "where it says sustainable, it says sustainable".
nuclear power and fossil energy are not sustainable.
we do not want to be dependent on energy imports from russia, either for fossil gas or for uranium or for nuclear fuel rods.
what we want is massive investment in renewable energy and financial markets that have a real appetite to support the energy transition with credible standards.
the eu green deal and the fit for 55 programme stipulate that the eu must become climate neutral by 2050. this will, of course, have implications for investment.
european financial institutions and companies will have to invest massively in sustainable technologies.
but who decides what's sustainable and what's not?
this is where eu taxonomy comes in: it classifies all economic activities in the eu according to their environmental sustainability.
the commission proposed to include gas and nuclear energy as transitional energy sources for achieving co2 neutrality in the taxonomy.
the european parliament is firmly opposed to this inclusion and is now voting against the inclusion of gas and nuclear energy.
that means you can't invest in these energy sources anymore.
furthermore, environmental protection must become a priority for kosovo.
one of the main big steps on that pathway is the energy transition.
it is high time to finally adopt and start implementing the long-awaited energy strategy, which will pave the way for decarbonisation of kosovo’s energy mix and open the door for more renewables.
we need to think in the longer perspective and realise that the cold not only kills citizens but will also kill the economy once the carbon adjustment mechanism enters into force.
judiciary, rule of law, energy transition, but also on education and health.
the deals on energy in the north of kosovo and on missing persons are important as they will contribute to the further normalisation of the situation and mutual trust between albanians and serbs.
in this way, we have set up the framework for a joint response from the eu and its member states in the following strands of action: firstly, a solidarity strand to step up emergency relief; secondly, a production and resilience strand to scale up support to sustainable production capacities; thirdly, a trade strand to get grains out of ukraine; and fourthly, a multilateral strand to embed our response in effective multilateral partnerships.
we have to support local production, ensure access to food while making food systems more sustainable and resilience.
this, as you know, is an objective of the sustainable development goals, which are, let’s face it, tragically far from being achieved.
in order to achieve the sustainable development goals, in particular the sdg 2 zero hunger, we need to ensure that our trade policies do not interfere with development goals and put more emphasis on food sovereignty.
this is the courage and foresight that the eu needs, mr prime minister, as it must reorient itself - externally, in other words, towards a common energy policy, with less dependence, in short, geopolitically, but also internally, in its own machinery.
while more and more people are struggling to pay their energy bills, some corporations are doing very well.
another part of the profits will go to investments in renewable energy, which we urgently need.
gigantic sums of tax money are being mobilised to support ukraine, but also to support the economy, which is suffering from these high energy prices.
we must not lose heart in the face of an energy and food crisis.
all that matters is the provision of livelihoods, the creation of jobs, infrastructure projects and climate and energy partnerships.
mr president, the negotiations for the post-cotonou agreement are based on a common foundation and focus on the specific needs of the regions, namely democracy and human rights, sustainable, social and human development.
today we have the opportunity to implement our programme, including a sustainable partnership on an equal footing with the acp countries (africa, caribbean and pacific).
brazil is the fourth most dangerous place in the world for environmental defenders, and this high number goes hand-in-hand with the highest destruction rates in the amazon ever.
it is the consequence of an agenda of the bolsonaro government, such as defunding institutions and weakening environmental legislation.
it is the consequence of verbal attacks and intimidation towards environmental defenders by the president himself.
the eu needs to put more pressure on the bolsonaro government to better protect indigenous people and environmental defenders.
the eu has to make its trade policy finally sustainable and its supply chains deforestation-free.
and the brazilian government has to revoke the dangerous weakening of environmental law and better fund protection agencies.
– madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, the worsening situation of indigenous, environmental and human rights defenders in brazil is a key concern for the eu, which is regularly addressed in the eu—brazil mechanism for political dialogue and cooperation at different levels.
these specific, tragic cases highlight the need for a more comprehensive effort in brazil to address the challenge of violence against indigenous and environmental defenders, including full and transparent investigations to bring those responsible to justice.
over the past few months, these concerns have been voiced in a series of high—level visits to brazil, including by eu high representative borrell in november, by the eu’s special representative for human rights gilmore in december, and by myself in april, when i visited brazil to discuss in particular our legislative proposal on deforestation, which aims to protect the rich biodiversity of our forests, which as many of you tonight mentioned, are the lungs of our planet.
our outreach encompassed meetings with the federal and state authorities, including the legislative and judiciary bodies, as well as with indigenous peoples’ organisations and human rights and environmental defenders.
continuous engagement with civil society, including human rights, indigenous and environmental defenders and organisations, is another important component of our ongoing work to show our support and to raise awareness.
our actions focus on the urgent protection of the rights of indigenous peoples and forest defenders, with a special focus on women, as well as on supporting indigenous groups, advocating for their rights at national and international levels, and promoting sustainable development.
the first is the question of water management in our territories and the need to reconcile all uses of this vital resource for human consumption, but also for crops, livestock, industry and energy.
sustainable water management and an efficient irrigation structure are therefore essential.
water-saving technologies, more inter-company cooperation projects, more consultancy and research for man, animal, plant and environment are essential.
the provision of water, food and energy must not be used as a bargaining chip for ideological reasons.
this means that we not only have to go much faster in climate change, but we also have to go much faster in adapting to changing conditions.
and i think the first thing that has to come to mind is the reduction of waste.
and of course, we can't rule out the possibility that we're going to be much faster in terms of expanding renewable energy, energy efficiency, to get to the root of this crisis.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
but equally undeniable is that flying is the most energy-intensive form of mobility, and it relies entirely on fossil fuels.
refueleu aviation is now intended to usher in the transition to more sustainable fuels.
but it is not sustainable to allow new fuels to be produced from problematic raw materials such as palm oil distillate or intermediate products.
instead, we should be looking at the only scalable solution, and that's synthetic fuels made from renewable electricity.
because the potential for sustainable biofuels is limited.
i therefore ask you to vote in favour of our amendments and to ensure a sustainable future for aviation.
a small addition to mr gade: if the deadlines are so short, it is clear that the committee on industry, research and energy cannot submit proposals.
mr president, the aviation sector accounts for 4% of global carbon emissions.
this is especially a meteoric growth by 2050 which means, obviously, that it must also participate in our carbon neutrality objective.
and that means lighter planes, it means better calculated amounts of fuel on board, and it means new energy.
the result is the same: deforestation, the destruction of biodiversity and a disastrous climate impact.
there is only one useful and effective vote for the future this afternoon: support for the søren gade report and amendments nos 112 and 134 to make the aviation fuels of tomorrow truly sustainable.
and that’s why opening up and broadening the definition of sustainable aviation fuels is such a wrong thing to do.
we wanted the development of the sustainable aviation fuels, but we wanted the development of the more advanced and not the ones that could be palm oil, that could be intermediate crops, that can be food crops.
we need to correct this because that will make sure we are developing the real sustainable aviation fuels.
the european aviation sector needs to reduce co2 emissions by 55% by 2030, and this is to be achieved with the same level of enthusiasm for flying as europeans.
my question is, actually when you’re talking about that we need to keep the cost at bay and we need to democratise aviation, are you aware that about 20% of the world’s population are in a situation to be able to enter a plane on economic reasons and that 1% of the world’s population is responsible for more than 50% of emissions, and that the ticket prices reflect less than one third of the cost which is actually inflicted on society by aviation?
i think this makes sense for one reason: the sustainability criteria we set are increasingly being safeguarded, because they are regulated in the renewable energy directive.
so no one here has to worry about these sustainability criteria being torn down.
cycling is still almost exclusively carried out in the home environment and also on rather shorter distances.
we have to welcome the proposal for a european union forestry strategy for 2030: i see it as a very important strategic instrument to achieve our commitments related to climate change mitigation and adaptation, biodiversity conservation and restoration and the promotion of the circular bioeconomy and support for rural development.
i would also like to point out that environmental issues of great relevance to europe, such as desertification or the abandonment of forest land, are not mentioned, along with issues such as forest fires or pests.
finally, a balance needs to be struck between the environmental, social and economic aspects of forest management, maintaining and respecting the diversity of forests and forest management practices of the member states of the european union, while ensuring a coordinated and harmonised approach of the european union.
mr president, mr commissioner, forests and their sustainable management are the solution to combating climate change and also to replacing fossil raw materials in both products and energy production.
forests are not just about the environment, they are about ownership, about economic and social values.
we must continue to count forest-based bioenergy as renewable, otherwise we are in the way of the fossil fuel economy.
the fact is that, despite the guidelines of the committee on the environment, wood is renewable and continues to sequester carbon as it grows.
secondly, the strategy, like many other recent commission strategies, focuses on this environmental dimension, leaving economic and social issues out of its focus.
because from an environmental point of view, let's remember that our forests are home to biodiversity, that they store carbon.
the use of these resources is an integral part of good forest management so that our forests are maintained, healthy, and to allow the renewal of populations but also the adaptation of species to global warming.
and this is true whether it is for the forestry strategy, or the text on renewable energy or the text on deforestation.
mr president, commissioner, to talk about any measures to combat climate change without talking about a very good forestry strategy is basically reprehensible.
climate change is having a negative impact not only on the fire resistance of forests themselves, but also on the prospects for wood production in the coming years.
the european forestry strategy must build on the existing foundations and include the protection and restoration of biodiversity and forest ecosystems, based on the principles of sustainable forestry and supported by clear indicators and indicators.
the new forestry strategy should be consistent with the 2030 biodiversity strategy.
and in this effort, we should also explore how to stimulate and increase funding for this sector and how to also use appropriate ecosystem services in a sustainable way.
whether it is the agricultural revolution, the food revolution, the transport revolution or the energy revolution, the greens in germany have been trying to re-educate us for years with these slogans.
i want to break a lance today for our forest owners, because wood is the most important renewable resource.
the forest is the key to fighting climate change, it provides jobs for millions of people, it supplies wood for construction, heating and electricity, and it is a recreational space for all of us.
sustainable forest management means making full use of the wealth of experience of private and public forest owners and foresters.
forest owners and managers need drivers and financial incentives to acknowledge the ecosystem services linked to the adoption of most climate- and biodiversity-friendly forest management practices.
so the new cap for 2023–2027 offers increased flexibility to design forest-related interventions according to national needs and specificities, as well as reducing red tape while linking and ensuring a synergetic approach between the european green deal, national forest policies and the eu environment and climate legislation.
the forest strategy further calls on member states to set up under the cap and other eu financial instrument payment schemes for ecosystem services for forest owners and management, and accelerate the roll-out of carbon farming practices through this and other public instruments.
on the need to ensure biomass availability and biodiversity protection – we are looking for the multiple wins: biodiversity, climate and bioeconomy.
nature is our best ally in the fight against climate change.
the new forest strategy aims at preserving carbon in the long run.
the proposal for the revision of the renewable energy directive as part of the ‘fit for 55’ package sets out additional concrete safeguards.
it includes strengthened sustainability criteria for bioenergy, extending the scope of application and enlarging no-go areas for sourcing; his means prohibiting the sourcing of forest biomass from primary forests and limiting it in highly biodiverse forests to ensure no interference with nature protection purposes.
i believe that ecosystem services must be externally funded.
there are climate funds, there are people who want to invest a lot of money in green investment, and that includes ecosystem services for the forests.
we want them to be resilient to climate change and natural disasters, to be healthy, strong and to serve future generations.
i am afraid that the combination of the new forest strategy with the strategy's objectives of protecting biodiversity will be a major challenge for the forestry sector.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr christophe hansen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the making available on the union market and export from the union of certain raw materials and products associated with deforestation and forest degradation and repealing regulation (eu) no 995/2010 (com (2021) 0706 c90430/2021 2021/0366 (cod)) (a9-0219/2022).
are we serious about our fight against biodiversity loss and are we serious about our fight against climate change?
we would like to reach an agreement with the council during this presidency, which is why i am calling on everyone to vote in favour of protecting virgin forests, advocating biodiversity and fighting climate change.
this is crucial for the indigenous people in brazil and for the world’s climate.
it helps us address the two major environmental challenges of our time: biodiversity loss and climate change.
it is undeniable - and most of the imported foodstuffs, raw materials have already been mentioned, such as soy, coffee or palm oil - that these have also contributed to deforestation in highly sensitive areas and, of course, accelerated climate change.
i think there is this issue of compensation, climate finance, including through carbon credits, a big issue that we should approach in order to have a multi-pronged approach to solving this issue.
the committee on the environment has, however, made some changes which should be viewed with caution.
sustainable deforestation-free products must not just be a lifestyle for a few people that you can buy at the organic market, but they must become the standard and that is exactly the standard we are setting with this proposal.
anyone who wants to bring soya, cocoa, corn, rubber, leather and other products to the eu market must make their supply chain transparent and prevent environmental damage and human rights violations.
since i've been involved in energy policy, and that was at a time when i could still count my gray hair, there's been talk of the sleeping giant of energy efficiency.
because it has always been argued that governments, companies, homeowners would do everything on their own to use as little energy as possible.
and that is why we greens are fighting for a binding and ambitious energy efficiency directive.
we will also be discussing the renewable energy directive this week and many have expressed doubts whether a higher target for renewable energy is even achievable.
we are meeting our renewable targets and our climate targets.
why do you think putin has called energy efficiency a threat to the russian economy in his strategy papers?
please ensure that energy efficiency, and not just a vague reduction in energy demand, is at the heart of any action you propose to address this crisis.
i demand that you take the profits of the fossil fuel companies and invest in energy efficiency first.
energy efficiency is the stepchild of energy policy.
for years, far too little has been done here, and now the energy crisis is taking its bitter revenge.
that is why, as rapporteur for my group in the committee on the environment, i have advocated clarity in the objectives, but flexibility and feasibility in the implementation by the member states.
it is now extremely important that we apply the same realism and pragmatism to the revision of the european building directive, which will affect millions of eu citizens, as we did to the energy efficiency directive.
i would therefore like to confine myself here to what is called energy efficiency, namely the increase in the efficiency of energy conversion.
if we were talking about efficiency, we might be talking about primary energy consumption, but certainly not about the hydrogen economy with its inherently devastating efficiency.
the directive only requires by law that we all reduce our energy consumption by 0.8% per year now, 2% per year from 2024 onwards, or at least 40% by 2030 compared to 2007. their energy shortage is associated with restriction, shrinking of the economy and non-consumption.
in this situation, the european commission does not want to increase its climate targets, thus triggering a spiral of hesitation and hesitation internationally.
increase the climate targets!
set off an international spiral of climate action commitment.
what we need to do is really save the climate, using renewable energies, but not cutting down our forests.
and that, ladies and gentlemen, is what we must prevent, because we must meet our climate targets as early as 2030. the heat of summer has only given us a hint of what else is coming.
in times of exploding energy prices, but also food prices, we need clear signals that we want to boost the purchasing power of the very people who keep our store running.
this emergency is the explosion in the price of energy, but also of foodstuffs and everything connected with it.
it will significantly improve the position of many europeans in low-paid jobs, which is particularly important at a time of rapidly rising inflation and skyrocketing energy prices.
with your horrible energy costs, your green deal, your emissions trading system and now also with your sanctions against russia, you are creating a situation that leads to people becoming poor.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr markus pieper, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive (eu) 2018/2001 of the european parliament and of the council, regulation (eu) 2018/1999 of the european parliament and of the council and directive 98/70/ec of the european parliament and of the council as regards the promotion of energy from renewable sources and repealing council directive (eu) 2015/652 (com ((2021) 0557 c90329/2021 2021/0218 ((cod)) (a9-0208/2022).
the commission is not the european union has a real competence in this area, namely the development of renewable energies as the heart of the european energy transition.
so it's all the more important that we get results quickly that make us more independent, that are affordable - more independent of course from russia, of course from fossil energy.
european renewable energy producers must be world leaders in innovation.
thirdly, and i see mrs bentele here, we want a hydrogen import strategy to be included in the national energy plans.
in conjunction with technology transfer and development aid, we will organise the import of green electricity and hydrogen as a win-win and reduce energy costs in europe.
the energy transition requires technological openness and flexibility.
last but not least, we have improved the ecological criteria without unnecessary red tape and costs.
the commission is now expected to negotiate this directly with the member states, of course using the best practices of sustainable forestry.
on this basis, wood-based biomass is of course more credible than renewable energy, contrary to all rumors.
we shall then achieve a result which is better for the environment, but at the same time does not create new bureaucracy and means planning certainty.
if we do this right tomorrow, it will be a good day for europe's energy transition.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
commissioner simpson is currently in the college presenting the emergency energy package, and she asked me to take her place here to present the commission’s position on the renewable energy directive.
we have met the case at the moment, over the past six months also, that we are facing an acute situation, one that calls for an even more rapid, large-scale deployment of renewable energy.
and they are fundamental in our efforts to address the climate crisis.
the summer that just passed was a stark reminder that we cannot become complacent while energy scarcity threatens to affect our economy and citizens.
to support the uptake of renewable hydrogen, the commission will adopt soon the delegated act under the current renewable energy directive.
for example, we need to find a balance between avoiding the negative impact on biodiversity while taking into account the effects on energy supply in the current energy crisis situation.
restricting renewable targets to primary woody biomass would not send the right signal in the current context of tight energy supplies.
even so, i use the opportunity to restate how important a factor this is for our future energy system based on renewables.
as rapporteur for my group in the committee on development, i would like to focus on the international dimension of the renewable energy directive, which is crucial for the epp.
it did not take an energy crisis for us to realise that if we want to rapidly achieve a boom in renewable energy sources, and in particular hydrogen, in order to promote the energy transition and protect the climate, we must look not only at densely populated europe but also at places where the conditions for renewable energy are ideal and unlimited.
and in africa, where we are also making political efforts, there is a great deal of interest in opening a new chapter in energy cooperation with the eu.
i emphasize: in the mutual interest, because the production of green hydrogen requires the expansion of renewable energies in the partner country and generates new revenues in the country of origin.
but what is toxic to imports of renewable energy in the form of hydrogen is that the current regulatory set-up by the eu commission is too complicated, too detailed, not feasible in practice and thus a huge obstacle.
we have now got instalments that are 200 to 600% higher than last year in the energy sector.
the problem of price, which was just brought about by the misguided energy transition, which was just brought about by too much green energy, which is what is burdening our grids, which is what flat current means in effect.
we're not solving this problem right now by pushing for more green energy.
germany is experiencing the biggest energy crisis in its history.
germany's energy prices were the highest before the ukraine war.
the fault lies with germany's completely insane energy policy.
if you are going to give up coal and nuclear energy at the same time and rely on cheap russian gas as the only source of energy, you better not impose sanctions on russia.
and we need to get out of the green deal for energy security and for social peace and for prosperity for all of us.
i have to say, madam president, the situation on the european energy markets is dramatic.
businesses are threatened with bankruptcy, and more and more people are unable to pay their energy bills.
putin's war of aggression and a completely wrong energy policy over the last decades have brought us to this crisis.
it is time for big energy companies like shell to retire their profits and use the money for social relief.
rising energy prices are putting many citizens in existential distress.
the commission has already made a number of proposals, some better, some worse, at the energy ministers' conference last friday.
nevertheless, european energy policy is very often not on the right track.
we would have a carbon trading system that could solve all this in a good, technology-based way.
putin is waging war, including an energy war, against all of europe.
every source of energy now helps to prevent bankruptcies and social dislocation.
energy must not only be available, it must also remain affordable, and that is across society.
europe must now rely on a temporary electricity price brake, european purchasing, networked infrastructure and strategically new energy sources such as fusion.
a europe with a bright future also needs a very different kind of energy: energy for reforms, a reform of fiscal rules finally tightening up without building up new debt mountains , reforms for the eu as well.
if we look at the bleak prospects in energy-intensive industries, for example, it is a pity that we are not already equipping sure 2.0, sure + whatever at this point in time, so that we are armed and do not have mass unemployment.
bulgaria may be corrupt, but its new government is strictly on the eu's side, and is committed to the insane climate and pro-migration agenda, unlike hungary and poland, which represent the interests of their own people and protect the economy rather than climb sisyphus's climate summits.
madam president, total energy and the other investors are running two megaprojects that violate the human rights of over 100,000 people in east africa.
this giant pipeline heated to 50 degrees crosses tanzania and uganda and causes environmental damage to flora and fauna, as the pipeline carries oil, causing massive displacement of people, who are deprived of livelihoods.
once again, the exploitation of fossil fuels is not only an ecological tragedy, but also a human tragedy.
therefore, we need to address climate change.
let us help them to adapt to climate change, to prevent the next disasters from happening, and to help them save thousands of lives.
please let us introduce a climate adaptation fund.
but where, for example, was the radical intervention in the energy market in the typical speech of our commission president today?
to prevent energy poverty, we need to put energy networks and supply in public hands, so that we can finally control them democratically.
where are the resources to cover energy prices to come from?
in the end, ladies and gentlemen, cohesion policy cannot compensate for the debt constraints that are blocking public investment in climate protection and the energy crisis.
we can support renewable energy projects and make the rule of law a criterion for funding.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european environment agency is a step in the right direction, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to take action.
the vote will take place today, thursday 15 september 2022.
the next item is the report by mr tom berendsen, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the implementation of the updated new industrial strategy for europe: aligning expenditure on policy (2022/2008 (ini)) (a9-0214/2022).
energy security and energy affordability are the topics of the day for small and mediumsized enterprises, industry, start-ups and the craft sector.
this means: sustainable and future-proof, in the spirit of the green deal and without fossil and nuclear energy.
nuclear energy in the form of small modular reactors has not become part of the eu's industrial strategy.
in times of war in europe, when a nuclear power plant is bombed, we know all too well: only a sustainable and efficient energy supply will make us independent and competitive in europe in the long term.
we are calling for carbon contracts for difference to support industry, and the supply of batteries and semiconductors to industry will also be crucial for europe, see the forthcoming chips act.
but it's an illusion to assume that mining for critical raw materials can be 100% sustainable.
but the crucial question is, and most of the speakers have rightly mentioned it, the price of energy.
the german economy is clearly saying that energy prices can be reduced by taking a broader stance on electricity production and finally putting the principle of merit into the grave.
we should take a broader view of electricity production, and maintain technological neutrality, including in the direction of nuclear energy.
the first is that the oder is a very, very fragile ecosystem.
in the summer, the oder region on the german-polish border suffered major damage to the ecosystem.
the probable causes are man-made pollution and heat, which have led to low water levels, increased water temperatures and excessive salinity.
however, aquatic ecological studies indicate pollutants upstream of the oder.
eu environmental law has clear guidelines: the polluter pays principle and harm reduction.
the leibniz institute for aquatic ecology has already pointed out in an initial opinion that the oder ecosystem needs to be renatured.
we are indeed living in turbulent times, and there is a danger that in the sheer fear of a world war or another pandemic or the ideologues and priests of the new climate religion, we will lose sight of the issues that really matter, especially the fate of people who are persecuted for their faith.
it is good to save this project and make sure that these resources already spent don’t go to waste.
and if we should focus on that, we would not even have to invest in most emergency measures because we would support regions in becoming resilient for future challenges, be it a pandemic in healthcare systems, be it an economic crash, or the environmental crisis ahead.
and soon we will be saving the european union 1,000 tons of useless e-waste a year.
because that would be the best thing for the environment.
parliament has delivered against numerous lobbying interests and for consumers in the european union and for the climate.
this linear economy fuels the climate crisis, it leads to environmental destruction, human rights abuses in supply chains.
that's a triple win, because it's cheaper for the consumer, it's easier, and we're also reducing the giant mountain of electronic waste.
this is a small thing, but it has a very, very big impact: over 100 million euros that will no longer be consumed unnecessarily, over 100 000 pieces of waste that will no longer have to be produced to protect the environment, but also an efficiency for the economy that will bring down prices for consumers.
in recent years, the eu has approved several laws and technical standards, setting up a new ecosystem for accessibility such as the european accessibility act, the web accessibility directive, directives on audiovisual media services, electronic communication and technical specifications for railway stations and vehicles.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
forests around the world are home to a huge diversity of life, and they also regulate our global climate.
we need them both in the fight against the climate crisis and in the fight against the extinction of species, because species-rich forests give us life.
an ambitious eu position at cop19 in panama, as decided by the environment committee, must be a real game changer.
they suffer from the energy crisis, they suffer from migration, they suffer from deindustrialization, especially from germany.
the climate crisis is understood as a risk multiplier and strategically anchored.
and i don't know if these gentlemen heads of state have ever been in a concrete business, not the other types, to understand what it means to waste time if you have a transport company, as a citizen.
we all want development, we want sustainable development and we want it worldwide.
but this sustainable development is in the mutual interest of all trading partners, so that it will not be necessary, as a rule, to threaten sanctions immediately, but that this is based on reciprocity.
if we have to start imposing sanctions, the question arises whether the objectives of sustainable development that we are setting are really so convincing to everyone or whether a new form of eurocentrism is not taking place here, that we are making political demands from europe to our trading partners, who are usually poorer and weaker, without them being able to support them in substance, and that they then have to be forced to do so by means of sanctions.
in this sense, we are saying, yes, we want trade, we want sustainable development, but we must be careful not to overshot the mark and that we do not misuse trade to a new form of neo-colonialism that ultimately harms us and our trading partners.
worldwide communication would be cut, and this would interrupt everything from football game transmissions to renewable energy production, and the fight against climate change would be unwinnable without data from copernicus.
we need binding sustainability standards for all missions.
these should be ‘leave no trace behind’, reduce the greenhouse gas emissions, no light pollution, and active debris removal.
and to let you know, i will continue to do so to forge european space law, one common comprehensive european law to regulate all space activities in all fields necessary, so that europe extends its activities in space to bring more benefits to all europeans and all humans, but that’s also sustainable.
this has led to a huge increase in management and sustainability challenges.
but sustainability in the space sector is possible, see hubble telescope.
that is why it is so important now that the commission presents very concrete measures on the subject of sustainability in the aerospace industry, on the subjects of repair and life extension through design plus research support.
we are asking the fertilizer industry to make fertilizer, while still losing valuable nutrients to the environment.
i therefore call on the european commission to make a contribution to circular agriculture, because this is better for people, farmers, the climate and the environment.
what cannot be is that we now want to increase the amount of animal manure we put out in the field, to trade the fear of food shortages for the pollution of our drinking water.
energy prices are soaring, and so are the prices of fertilisers.
we are now seeing a real political will emerge to protect europeans on energy issues.
it is time, it is high time to implement food and environmental planning based on a systemic vision.
we are producing wonderful food by using agro-ecological and biological methods, without being dependent on artificial fertilizers and without the price increases of artificial fertilizers.
organic farmers can continue to produce wonderfully, and we keep our soils fertile by enriching the humus - the humus, which, by the way, makes the soil have a high water storage capacity and, thanks to the water storage capacity, can still produce food even in the case of drought - yes, the climate-related drought that we have seen again this year all over europe.
the greens are opposed to the production and consumption of energy, the basis of our civilization.
we need to ban home evictions and energy cuts.
with the energy crisis, you're now making us live hell inside our homes.
the fight against energy poverty is really about wearing sweaters and collars in our homes.
the ecological transition, the desire to bury nuclear energy in the long term, the organized dependence on foreign gas and the dogmatism around intermittent energy sources such as wind will have cost us dearly, very dearly.
your green energy mix project is putting household budgets in the red.
france must take the lead by lowering vat, investing in nuclear energy, exiting the european energy market and immediately stopping the policies the greens are calling for while the people suffer.
leave no one behind the guiding principle of the 2030 agenda is therefore, in my view, pure hypocrisy if, for example, we close farmland in agricultural areas such as those in central europe instead of promoting sustainable management.
and the roots are the ecb's zero-interest policy, unchecked mass immigration and the green deal - climate legislation.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
since 1990, ship emissions have increased by 36%.
they're bad for the climate and bad for our health.
it is good that the eu commission is moving forward with the law on marine fuels and formulating climate targets for shipping.
it is good that, under pressure from us greens, the committee on industry and also the environment, the emission reduction targets in the parliament's report have been tightened up.
it's also good that we're putting in expansion targets for renewable fuels.
this makes climate-damaging lng less attractive, and renewable alternatives much more attractive.
the committee on industry and the environment has shown in its deliberations that more is possible and necessary.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
maritime shipping has so far been exempted from all climate protection measures.
the regulation on sustainable marine fuels would have - i say consciously - given us the chance to put a difficult area to decarbonise, which according to all the studies and scenarios available will even grow in the next decades, on the path to climate neutrality.
this is absurd, because on the other hand the commission has written a draft for the next meeting of the international maritime organization imo for climate neutrality 2050. the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal.
the environment and industry committee of this parliament has corrected this fundamental shortcoming and has also made many well-founded technical proposals on how shipping can become climate neutral faster, how sustainable fossil-free fuels can be promoted and how emissions in ports can be reduced.
in addition to us greens, many other colleagues, such as catherine chabaud, have therefore proposed amendments to the way in which we can put shipping on the path towards climate neutrality.
they promote war, climate crisis, air pollution.
in the course of the green deal, the climate act and the fit for 55 package, brussels now wants to determine which fuels should be allowed for the free movement of persons in the future.
the latest eco-socialist climate egg to be laid in brussels is the eu-wide ban on combustion engines.
the decarbonisation of the transport sector is certainly one of the most exciting tasks we face at the moment, because it is necessary if we are to achieve the climate targets.
but at the same time, it is a really difficult task, because we have to balance on the one hand the competitiveness of our economy, the prices that consumers have to pay, and at the same time the ambitious climate targets that we want to achieve.
the fact that we need enough electrification and energy is completely undeniable.
the proposed legislation on increasing the use of renewable and low-carbon fuels in maritime transport aims, in addition to promoting sustainable fuels in shipping, to introduce specific arrangements for ships arriving in or departing from eu ports.
in order to preserve the competitiveness of european shipping, a global approach is being pursued to gradually reduce greenhouse gas emissions from maritime transport.
in the european parliament we have reached a balanced compromise text, ambitious and realistic, where we place particular emphasis on the environmental principle 'polluter pays', which is the cornerstone of eu environmental law.
this year, we targeted the narrative of the employment guidelines for the post—covid-19 environment and the war in ukraine.
and we added policy elements in the context of russia’s war of aggression against ukraine, including increasing energy costs.
we agree on the further integration of the sustainable development goals into the european semester.
we have to address job preservation, especially in those sectors, industrial sectors mainly, that are most affected by soaring energy prices.
the guidelines will also help member states address emerging social challenges, including increasing energy poverty, in a context of a dramatic rise in energy prices.
we are allowed to have clever ideas, and therefore we must not waste them on such reports.
i have no objection to you, mrs homs ginel, but it is the custom in this parliament now to write reports and try to include everything that does not belong there, whether it is climate change, climate protection or the green deal.
the german government has inflicted record energy prices on the germans and now wants to compensate them with 200 billion euros.
the recession and high energy prices are frightening many europeans.
this also means that we need a european cap on gas prices and mandatory energy savings for all member states now.
we greens were the first in this house to advocate a tax on the profits of energy companies.
with russia's energy blackmail, millions of people don't know how to pay their bills.
small and medium-sized companies have to lay off their employees, but energy companies make billions in profits.
but basically we have to make ourselves completely independent of energy from autocratic states.
many have said it here: this energy crisis threatens the very existence of millions of europeans, and ordinary workers cannot afford such price increases.
but what really worries me is the exploding energy prices that affect millions of jobs in energy-intensive industries.
energy, food are the soil of social peace and it is fragile everywhere.
they worry about rising energy prices, food prices, and that the inflationary spiral is continuing.
we are increasing energy production in europe, and that is why the german decision to keep nuclear power stations running is important.
we are expanding renewable energy faster and developing future energy.
we are saving energy, we are fighting inflation through structural measures.
according to the international monetary fund, prices will continue to rise sharply until at least 2026. one main reason is the doubling of the price of carbon credits and the eu's climate policy in general.
energy companies and the eu itself benefit from price increases.
the eu itself, not the consumers, is pushing for even more ambitious climate targets.
the eu's share of global co2 emissions alone is around 8%.
no other region of the world, not even the united states, shares your climate goals.
our impact on the world's climate is zero.
the 2023 budget is basically already a waste of money before it is adopted.
we are faced with energy costs that many citizens can no longer afford.
does it end the energy crisis?
does it stop the climate change madness?
just for the statistics: the word gender is mentioned 98 times, ukraine 92 times, climate 74 times.
we see the energy crisis, we see inflation, and we know that our options in the multiannual financial framework are limited.
and it is not the eu that is driving up the energy prices that are currently depriving our citizens of sleep.
but the crimes in ukraine must not make us forget that the greatest crisis on our planet is unstoppable, and that is the climate and biodiversity crisis.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
and that's why it's good that we're raising funds here for the clean energy transition, for the circular economy, for climate change mitigation, and also for the life programme and biodiversity.
because when it comes to conserving biodiversity, it's not about the survival of one beautiful butterfly.
i have to say, madam president, the climate crisis, the energy security issue, the nature conservation crisis, foreign and security policy, the economic and social consequences of this terrible war of aggression by vladimir putin - these are just some of the major crises and challenges that we face or that we are facing as the european union.
two of the commissioners responsible, mr gentiloni and mr breton, have proposed a eurobond with a common borrowing, with a commission guarantee, to deal with the energy crisis, as we did with the european recovery fund to deal with the pandemic.
president von der leyen told us that with the energy crisis the market for natural gas is not working well and we have precision, poverty and the brink of a recession.
and i think that if you look at it from the perspective of how we dealt so far with the crisis, we managed the covid-19 situation, we introduced the next generation eu budget, we are really coming up with unprecedented proposals when it comes to energy.
what i think would be very important – and this would be my request to the whole european parliament – tomorrow we will be debating the energy situation.
and it would be my plea that we should treat this file as the top priority of all of us, because that is the vehicle we can use to help the smes and to help the households, and to liberate space for the governments across europe to use state aid to help the energy-intensive industries, because we know that it’s very important.
we should be those who shape the world, because we europeans value human rights, we value the rule of law, we are fighting for the environment, we are fighting to make sure that rules and international law are respected across the world.
and for that we need to do much more, we need to be – i totally agree with you – more autonomous, stronger in energy, stronger in critical raw materials, to be sure that we can invest even more and become stronger when it comes to all future-oriented new technologies – be it renewables, be it hydrogen or be it electric vehicles.
you will see from our commission work programme that we would like to push further our cooperation in the field of trade with chile, with mexico, with new zealand, with other countries too, just to simply make sure that we remain this very important trading superpower that we are, and to bring also our approach with a new type of trade agreement where we take care of sustainable development, high-quality environmental standards and respect for social standards too.
nord stream 2 has been attacked and there has been serious damage here, which is seriously affecting the energy supply of europe and especially germany.
we can rebuild a country that has been destroyed, we can overcome an energy crisis created by a denial of green reality, we can even iron out the mistakes of the ecb.
the fact that the main sponsor of the climate conference is called coca-cola seems like a bad joke.
this is precisely our homework between the climate conferences, where we are in such a state as the eu that we can even slow down on our reduction targets.
but above all, we need more solidarity, the recognition that some countries have a harder time protecting themselves from the consequences of the climate crisis - consequences that the industrialized countries have to answer for with their fossil fuel business model.
here in sharm el-sheikh, there must be concrete commitments for financial support, and this includes a permanent mechanism to finance climate-related damage and losses.
the self-proclaimed climate crisis no.
1 is being met by political decisions to exit a functioning, cheap energy system, without any thought to a reasonable impact assessment on the european economy.
an economy which, moreover, not only finances environmental protection - the second concept - but makes it possible by means of technical innovation.
environmental protection, which is essential for the preservation of our world - our planet, which you all so vehemently defend - and for future generations, has nothing to do with climate protection.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to protect the environment, such as the removal of trees for wind turbines or the construction of offshore structures in waterfowl nesting grounds.
the functioning of our economy depends on the availability of energy at all times.
volatile renewables do not do this and, as so-called transitional energy sources, have also created a fatal geostrategic dependence on gas.
they are the cause of our energy crisis.
the energy shortage resulting from the energy crisis, the gigantic costs of converting and building an energy system that is not baseload-efficient, and an out-of-control carbon pricing are what are leading to energy poverty.
but they are not the root cause of the deliberately political-ideological energy crisis that is crippling our economy and impoverishing our citizens.
the green deal, the climate bill, the fit for 55 package, the cargo bike, green hydrogen are all expressions of a completely insane green wealth destruction.
it is not the climate crisis that is causing chaos in the world, mrs johansson, representing mr timmermans, but climate magogists who are shouting doom-scenarios and pursuing policies against their own citizens.
and i don't want to talk to you about climate, i want to talk to you about human rights.
we're only three weeks away from the climate conference, and so far it looks like it's going to be a disaster.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of air pollution.
if this climate conference fails, you're responsible for it, too.
you're gonna have to take care of yourself and make sure that the climate conference is a success.
just 19 countries have submitted new climate targets, despite all of them promising to finally get on the sub-2 degree path.
the global methane pledge was signed in a major move to reduce methane emissions.
we are also having a difficult time negotiating here in the eu, because so far it is mainly the oil and gas industry that is dictating what such a limitation should look like in the energy sector.
the federal environment agency has calculated that.
but there is also food insecurity, rising energy prices, which are causing instability to trigger further migration flows from third countries to europe.
but it is the member states who have to supply, and in particular their municipalities, cities and regions with, accommodation and energy prices.
they're sick of open borders and imported crime, they're sick of gender and awareness, they're sick of excessive minority rights, and they want affordable energy and not deindustrialization through the green deal.
let us develop a partnership on par with concrete successes in the ecological transformation, in the creation of a european security architecture and a real perspective for the young people in the region.
the gasoline and fuel for the prague trip could have been saved certainly more sensible in view of the energy crisis.
the majority of global outages are due to climate change, including in europe this year.
we have a decline in grain production due to drought, which is caused by climate change.
we have other challenges as well in the longer term: climate, sustainability, a growing population.
in the long term, we must create a sustainable model.
we must recognise the critical interplay between food, energy and sustainability.
and we must continue to use fertiliser, pesticides and other aid to production in a sensible, sustainable way.
sustainable food systems are built on a much broader foundation.
sustainable food systems cannot rely on massive imports.
the situation that would have already been hard due to the impact of climate change and covid—19 pandemic is now even more severe due to the russian aggression and the disruption of crop markets.
however, since february this year, ensuring food security is again a crucial issue, and we should temporarily relax some environmental measures.
over 800 million people are hungry worldwide, but we have record food production on this planet, dizzying food waste, wars, conflicts that fuel poverty and instability, climate change, rural populations living with poor working conditions and no social security, and, and, and.
it takes more science, more innovation, more investment for sustainable agriculture, for resilient agricultural food systems.
the availability of fertilisers and plant protection products for healthy plants, their efficient use and also the reduction of food losses and waste are essential.
but the entire cultural ecosystem is massively threatened.
the cultural sector should be strongly considered in the context of reconstruction, in particular as it can make an important contribution to a sustainable and transformative and inclusive future for ukraine.
is first and foremost climate mania, lgbtqi i can't even pronounce it right diversity, tolerance and acceptance where tolerance and acceptance does not refer to your values, the ukrainian values, but to everyone else in the world.
energy-intensive companies have signed up for short-time work, small businesses are facing a wall.
that is why energy prices must now be brought down, and purchasing power must be strengthened, and that is why the surpluses must be properly exploited and used throughout europe to support the weakest.
the european council's demands on energy are something that can only surprise anyone with a healthy sense of reason.
the solutions are to be more energy savings and even more non-baseload renewable energy.
so it is their own crazy green ideology plus sanctions policy plus energy shortages and price increases that has led to the energy crisis and is doing the exact opposite, which is to say more co2 emissions.
it is not green flat energy, but nuclear energy that is the energy of future industrial nations.
i say the energy charter treaty is the most problematic example of a structure that keeps us locked into fossil fuels, that makes us slow down the urgently—needed transition.
dear commissioner, even under the reformed ect, three private arbitrators will still have full power to condemn states to pay billions for the offence of curbing climate change.
in the current state of climate emergency these weaknesses of the modernised ect are not acceptable.
– mr president, dear colleagues, dear commissioners, this week because of cop, climate dominates again the narrative and the minds of prime ministers and chancellors, and that’s great.
right here with repowereu we can ensure that we act on climate.
it is true that we need to ensure energy security, but don’t let yourselves be fooled: we need to be absolutely clear that the current energy crisis does not require investment in fossil fuel infrastructure that will be operational in five years.
this does not help the current energy crisis, and we need to make sure that everyone understands that.
solving the current energy crisis means a fast transition to sustainable and renewable energy, and with our votes tomorrow we can make sure that this happens.
the commission is not since angela merkel, germany has pursued a truly fantastic energy policy: away from domestic coal and nuclear energy, towards solar and wind energy.
the eu parliament even wants repowereu funds to be allowed to be invested only in weather-dependent solar and wind energy, not fossil fuels and nuclear energy.
the war in europe and the energy crisis must not jeopardize these investments, because we in europe want to become independent of dictators and of fossil energy.
and no, despite the positive aspects of repowereu, it doesn't make sense to use the new chapter in the building and resilience facility plans to waste taxpayer money and put money into long-term fossil projects.
in the case of new investments, we must maintain the integrity of the emissions trading system and generate non-financial resources through the auctioning of additional pollution allowances.
a long-term co2 price signal is particularly important in these times of crisis for the ecological-social transformation, for decarbonisation, for a future of europe where sustainability and the competitiveness of companies come together.
the current use of loot boxes creates gaming addictions, threatening children, people with addiction problems, creating a harmful environment, and it’s just bad for the gaming experience as a whole.
thanks to the coronavirus, the war in ukraine, the energy crisis and the ecb's easy monetary policy, debt in the euro area will continue to rise.
the only way to really repair our public finances is to stop migration, end green energy policy and a wealth tax for countries with high private wealth.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr bart groothuis, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on measures to achieve a high common level of cybersecurity in the union and repealing directive (eu) 2016/1148 (com ((2020) 0823 c9-0422/2020 2020/0359 ((cod)) (a9-0313/2021).
attacks on security agencies, critical infrastructure like energy pipelines, parliaments and also a lot of businesses.
it will take a few years for the whole ecosystem to settle down, of course, and for all the actors involved, that will no doubt mean special effort and resources, but also a great school of life.
it is therefore important to ensure technically that processes in the different member states are in order in the important sectors that we are talking about here: energy, transport, healthcare and digital infrastructure.
we can fight climate change.
we can get easier from a to b. we can fight pollution in our cities.
we’re shaping our digital environment in our atmosphere and therefore our digital future.
on the one hand, the proposal extends cybersecurity risk management measures and reporting obligations to, inter alia, the energy, transport and health sectors, while respecting national and company specificities.
in response to these challenges, nis2 extends and enriches the existing directive by, inter alia, extending the scope of the directive to new sectors, in particular, to include public administrations, which in the current geopolitical situation may be particularly vulnerable to cyberattacks, and by introducing a division of entities into those with a status of 'key' (energy, transport, health and digital infrastructure) and 'important' (postal services, electronics, motor vehicles).
for example, new provisions will apply to vital sectors such as energy, transport, banking, health, digital tourism, public administration and space.
the new rules also protect important sectors such as postal services, waste management, chemicals, food, medical devices, motor vehicles and machinery, electronics and digital services.
even five years after the defeat of isis, yazidi families still live there in confined places in an environment of unhealed trauma and limited possibilities.
we should put an ultimatum to all the billionaires around the world: if you don't solve the climate crisis in one year, you will be expropriated.
can elon musk use his wealth to solve the climate crisis, or is he just too angry to do so?
this list could be continued as far as we want, because according to a study by the consultancy firm horváth, three quarters of our suppliers are suffering from the massive increase in energy, raw materials and production costs.
we have pointed out the legal provisions, the energy situation.
at the same time, we are facing an energy price crisis and inflation that is making europeans fear for their lives.
and we are facing an accelerating climate catastrophe that will pose even greater challenges to the global community.
we are responding with increases to the life programme, which protects our nature, and with funds for the connecting europe facility in the field of transport and energy.
this is extremely bitter, because right now in the crisis, we need more tax justice and more budgetary resources to invest in climate, research and digitization.
the commission and the ecb say that the fault lies not with the eu's economic and monetary policies but with unfortunate circumstances: covid, the war in ukraine, the climate, etc.
but some days ago we could see that the climate conference, the cop, ended with quite a disappointing result.
and i think nearly all of us agree that we need more investments, we need more climate investments.
so i would ask you much more concretely, what do you think is in your proposal to ensure that we will end up with more green investments, needed green investments, to reach our climate goals?
but we need massive investment in climate protection now, and for that new debt rules must create the space in national budgets.
the integration of budgets into national energy and climate plans is therefore a step forward.
but we need more speed and more ambition in climate investments.
and here is my question: how can we manage to create financial space for member states so that member states are able to successfully fight against climate change?
colleagues, our attention and our determination are the best protection we can give to them, and that is what we should do with all the energy we have.
how can support for the eu thrive in such an environment?
i am glad that you mentioned specific projects in the energy sector.
and if nothing changes fundamentally, then populist actions like those in italy will continue to divide europe, poison the climate and make citizens doubt; and here again, action instead of populist games.
we need a much stronger linkage of all types of energy use: electricity, heat, mobility; there must be better incentives for sector coupling and storage; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the services provided by the networks.
how can we make energy bills affordable and our businesses competitive with a truly integrated european energy market?
i call on the member states to call on and implement the eu funds available as quickly as possible and to invest them in particular in the energy infrastructure of the future, in electricity and hydrogen.
secondly, we can bring down energy prices if we act as the eu on the world market and buy together.
we need a real european energy diplomacy.
the reconstruction must be sustainable, involve civil society and meet all democratic and anti-corruption provisions.
we stand with the families, with the children who are in the cold, without heating, without electricity, without water, because russian bombs target civilian energy infrastructure.
these numbers are dramatic, and extinction is even more threatening than the climate crisis, because the biodiversity of our planet provides us with safe drinking water, clean air and fertile soil.
the forthcoming world conference on biodiversity must be a turning point.
just as the 2015 paris agreement finally established the need for global climate protection, we need a montreal convention for the protection of biodiversity.
mr sinkevičius, mr bek, will you not only advocate measures to protect at least 30% of the land and sea area, but also to regulate activities which further fuel the loss of biodiversity?
it is astonishing: they preach biodiversity, they reproach farmers for alleged pollution and they want to extend protected areas which are not worth a whistle because they happily propagate a 'green' turn with massive expansion of wind energy, also in protected areas.
the commission has just proposed an emergency regulation which completely suspends the environmental protection including the birds directive when it comes to 'renewable energy'.
their wish to protect biodiversity is not only false, but simply does not take place in a collective bout of climate schizophrenia.
at the climate cop 27, the global community failed to make concrete steps to stay within the 1.5 degree pathway.
allowing the climate crisis and the biodiversity loss to continue is not an option.
allowing the climate crisis and biodiversity loss to go further and further is not a solution.
speaking of insurance, saving biodiversity is our best insurance to combat climate change.
the greater the biodiversity of our ecosystems, the more options for adaptation are left for our future.
in the eu, we already practice ecological forestry methods in only one third of our forests.
we must transform our entire forest management towards more biodiversity.
commissioner sinkevičius, minister bek, will you ensure that the eu pushes for the best possible result at the cop15 and at the same time take serious steps for sustainable ecological forestry at home?
you can talk about global warming, you can talk about the war of aggression in ukraine, you can talk about food security in the world, but also about the fact that more than 100 million people are on the run.
we as the epp have also worked to ensure that we also start a debate on the reorientation of our european development finance institutions, because there is more competition in the world - think of china - and more tasks - think of climate change.
it is essential to protect the present and future generations who will be traumatised by an environment of such violence.
the wolf has now refuted everything that has been tried to convince us that it does not jump, that it lives in the forest as an ecological police and feeds on the animals there, that it does not go to large animals such as cattle or horses or that a good fence keeps it away.
so i would like to ask you: we have a situation now where a lot of young people have mental problems, a lot of young people are struggling with fears about the future, climate change, war.
that does definitely include the climate.
we want a transformation to sustainability, and we want safe medical devices.
this vulnerability linked to gender and disability creates an environment conducive to abuse and various forms of abuse.
we have met many allies in the fight against the climate crisis in the european parliament, and we have heard many stories, such as that of the nigerian climate activist who cannot continue his studies because floods have not only killed hundreds of people in his country, but have also destroyed his university.
we heard from the maldives environment minister who talked about how hard she's trying to do her job under the circumstances, but now she knows that her daughter can't be sure she can continue living where her family has roots.
and it is precisely in this context that we must ask ourselves: what have we achieved at this climate conference?
i would also agree very clearly that the success of the agreement on a climate damage fund in the countries most affected by climate change is on the wealth side.
because it's an important step towards global climate justice, and it allows us to help precisely where, for example, someone can't go to school because their university is underwater.
but it's not enough to just treat the symptoms of the climate crisis.
we must make it absolutely clear that just climate policy can only take place if democratic conditions prevail.
2022 was a lost year for climate action.
we're breaking the paris agreement, and we're on a deadly three-degree path to global warming.
that's why we said in glasgow a year ago: this year, 2022, we're all going to raise our climate targets to 1.5 degrees.
you, mr timmermans, then said that the european union would not increase its climate targets because we were already doing enough.
commit to a higher european climate target: 60% is possible, 65% is necessary.
and demand the same from our partners, because 2023 cannot be lost to climate change again.
so all this is raising the prices, and it’s rightly so, because the prices do not reflect the co2 emissions from the sector.
as we talk about co2 emissions, there’s no, and i repeat no, single good argument for not doing the single european sky.
we can solve up to save up to 10% of co2 emissions if we realise the single european sky.
i have to say, madam president, the german constitutional court last week declared the nextgenerationeu package and the raising of a staggering €800 billion of debt to be in line with the eu treaty this despite the fact that three articles of the eu treaty prohibit joint debt raising: articles 310, 311 and 125. after all, the judges complained, almost 300 billion euros had been misappropriated by the commission and misused not for post-covid reconstruction, but for the funding of the absurd climate rescue.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr markus pieper, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive (eu) 2018/2001 on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, directive 2010/31/eu on the energy performance of buildings and directive 2012/27/eu on energy performance (com (2022) 0222 c9-0184/2022 2022/0160 (cod)) (a9-0283/2022).
we now continue our debate on the report by mr markus pieper, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive (eu) 2018/2001 on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, directive 2010/31/eu on the energy performance of buildings and directive 2012/27/eu on energy performance (com (2022) 0222 c9-0184/2022 2022/0160 (cod)) (a9-0283/2022).
there's no more time to waste.
this is our chance to make sure that we have sustainable investments in children, because they are our future, and because we can actually achieve a lot with relatively little money.
to the threats of invasion that it launches against greece, in the context of its geopolitical competition with the greek bourgeoisie, the other "allies" respond "find them", a position that "turns the table" of co-operation in the aegean and the eastern mediterranean, with dangerous arrangements for the interests of energy groups.
we reiterate again our expectation from türkiye to seriously work on de—escalation tensions in a sustainable way.
it is important to avoid any unilateral action that could trigger tensions on the island and undermine efforts for creating an environment conducive to the resumption of the settlement talks where conditions allow.
at the same time, the eu is fully behind georgia’s efforts to become a digital and energy hub across an increasingly important economic corridor between the east and the west.
the summit will offer a political forum for the eu and asean to demonstrate a shared political determination to address the impact of multiple regional and global crises, including the russian aggression in ukraine, myanmar, the climate crisis, as well as our joint attachment to international law, multilateralism and internationally agreed norms and standards.
the joint leaders’ statement will showcase our broad cooperation on trade, connectivity, security and climate change, as well as seek leaders’ guidance for further cooperation.
further deliverables are being prepared, such as support on connectivity under the global gateway, including a team europe initiative on sustainable connectivity, global gateway projects put forward by member states, the eu—asean comprehensive air transport agreement, as well as further investment projects such as the asean catalytic green finance facility.
the new eu-asean energy dialogue and the european union's efforts to support the transition of asean countries to clean energy are further positive signals from this year.
the commission is now called upon to make rapid progress in all areas, on trade, but also on climate, security, energy and human rights.
trade agreements between us have over the years ensured economic prosperity in both regions, but they have also improved workers' rights, secured ratification of ilo conventions in asean and introduced several important environmental requirements, most recently in the trade agreement with vietnam.
we can mutually benefit from alignment in important policy areas, not least in sustainable development and sustainable trade.
i welcome, in particular the eu’s global gateway strategy to support the development of infrastructure and investment in smart, clean and secure links in digital energy and transport sectors globally.
we need an analysis with our partners of what they need in the area of sustainable economy.
putin is deliberately destroying ukraine's energy infrastructure, and ukraine needs our solidarity now more than ever.
we need a european gas price brake that reduces energy costs for all people and businesses.
this is the result of an ideologically blinded energy policy.
but energy conservation and the threat of energy rationing are merely the direct consequences of their carbon tunnel vision, ridiculous, volatile renewables and a sanctions policy that harms us first and foremost.
this energy policy is the back-winding of our entire modern civilization, it is its antithesis, so to speak.
the act itself is promoting new energies, including nuclear energy.
but, above all, it is a protectionist measure to promote us industry and to attract foreign and especially eu investment because soaring inflation and energy costs weaken eu-based producers.
the eu is using covid-19 and the ukraine war to accelerate its own self-destructive climate change and pro-migration policies, which make us a laughing stock of the whole world.
and yes, the wto can check the inflation reduction act, but what we need especially is a transatlantic climate alliance and quick decisions to strengthen the green european industry.
therefore, let’s talk about carbon contracts for difference.
we need simpler rules and faster procedures for companies, but not at ecological costs or risking the integrity of the internal market.
we can see that rising energy prices and rising inflation are simply causing many people to have less money in their pockets, and that the conversations before christmas are all about: where can you save, where can you limit?
we see that when we look at food prices, they're going up faster than energy prices are going up.
in fact, it is your climate policy and the so-called monetary policy of the ecb.
so: end your senseless climate policy, which has zero impact on the world's climate with an eu share of 8% of global emissions.
mr president, people are paying for their choices in terms of more expensive groceries, higher energy bills and a much higher rent.
i have to say, madam president, high energy prices, high food prices, record inflation - this is hard on people and businesses in europe.
the repowereu programme, the alignment with the renewable energy directive and the energy efficiency act, is also now accelerating the green transition, bringing down energy prices and thus working against inflation.
we must also act against market manipulation in energy markets and strengthen the supervision of national authorities and the european supervisory authority esma.
energy suppliers are not subject to the same financial supervision as traditional banks, and it is a good thing that the ecb has now decided to examine whether the largely unregulated financial trading of energy companies may pose a risk to the financial system.
we must now fight with all our might against the high energy prices and against inflation which are making life difficult for so many people in europe.
the energy crisis and the cost of living crisis are hitting people differently.
but to all the right-wingers who are saying that the green deal or the climate crisis or climate policy is to blame, i say, call your friend putin and complain to him!
it is good that the commission has facilitated this declaration between consumer protection associations and energy companies.
with the disastrous monetary policy of the ecb and its climate policy.
the eu's climate policy is a policy of social coldness.
it has made energy the most important social issue of the 21st century.
foreign funding, such as that of the last generation climate terrorists, must be banned.
the eu cannot be sustainable with this budget.
climate neutrality by 2050, the social consequences of the economic crisis, greater responsibility for security policy, industrial policy competition with the usa and china, active partnerships in the balkans and the african continent, digitalisation, species extinction - the challenges are great.
there is still far too much european money being spent on climate damage.
through our eu budget, we help to promote climate-damaging infrastructure and to prevent species from becoming extinct.
we need to make our climate quotas more binding, we need to make non-compliance more severe, and we need to cut climate-damaging subsidies from the budget.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budget is not used to the detriment of the environment.
i recently predicted here that the 2023 budget is not sustainable and will soon burst.
the current financial framework was created long before the covid-19 pandemic and its aftermath, long before the war in ukraine, long before the high inflation or the destabilization of energy commodity markets, with all its negative consequences.
these new own resources, especially those of an environmental nature, are regressive in nature.
we've invested hundreds of billions in increasing energy production.
the way we occupy space, the way we farm and forest, the way we seal the land, but also our emissions and climate change are driving this rapid mass extinction.
that is why we have already set a 10% target for biodiversity measures in our eu budget.
the commission must now urgently provide a consistent and biodiversity-oriented methodology to counter this loss of species and finally act with the member states to stop the loss of species.
we are now facing a terrible war in europe, an energy and supply chain crisis, a spiral of inflation, a change in monetary policy and, probably, a recession.
what russia has not yet done with military power, they have tried first with starvation, then they have tried with energy, now they are trying with freezing.
the russian military has destroyed critical civilian infrastructure in ukraine, that is, power plants, energy and transportation infrastructure.
well, targeted attacks on energy supplies and critical infrastructure are also happening in the eu.
the federal government has decided by law to shut down all nuclear power stations, thus endangering the energy supply of its citizens and industry and raising exorbitant prices.
but why should russia damage the assets of its most important energy company and deprive itself of the profits of the remaining european energy business?