the european parliament should not waste its time and the vote of the citizens by meddling with the commission's organisational structure and titles.
like water and air and biodiversity, personal data, climate and the rule of law and so on are on the commission's table, without it being on the titles of the commissioners.
especially at large sizes and in large chunks out at sea, where they, along with other marine energy technologies, can help meet our enormous need for green energy.
because the climate crisis and the energy crisis need to be solved now.
the paris agreement and the climate targets must be met on time.
europe is crying out for self-sufficiency in green and clean energy that ordinary households and businesses can afford.
as rapporteur for the ppe group, i am particularly pleased that we have got a broad agreement which ensures life cycle access to marine energies and which puts them into the much needed upscaling of green hydrogen production so that marine energy can really benefit the energy-intensive sectors around the eu.
we are building energy islands in the sea to produce electricity, but also to distribute the green electricity between countries.
i must also say that i am surprised that in germany the idea has been taken that energy policy can be separated from other policy areas.
that you think you can talk energy on the one hand and that it has no influence on security policy and on foreign policy, because of course it does.
and in this day and age, especially now that energy is so expensive as it is, of course it also has a huge impact on who you're going to be independent of for the next many, many years.
i hope that in germany there will be a wider debate on nord stream 2, because it is, in my view, absolutely impossible to imagine that energy policy can be separated from foreign policy.
it's about investing in renewable energy, and it's about increasing energy efficiency by insulating our houses and harnessing surplus heat so we can save energy instead of importing putin's black energy.
used batteries have long been a problem for our environment.
what is also good is that we are strengthening our efforts for the environment and increasing consumer safety by making a much clearer distinction between which types of batteries should be replaced by whom.
the war in ukraine has shown that energy policy is security policy - and security policy is energy policy.
if we play our cards right, safety and the environment can go hand in hand.
we must work towards becoming an energy union.
biogas is a fast, efficient and green form of energy that can help us get rid of organic waste in society, move us closer to the climate target and contribute to the circular economy.
it is therefore up to the member states to choose the forms of energy that best suit the resources that each country now has.
the eu must ensure a wide and flexible choice of energy sources.
we need more renewable energy and the crisis has indeed shown that it is possible to act quickly.
for our safety, for the climate, for the environment.
we need better protection of our physical and mental working environment.
now is the time for the eu to do its job and provide better protection for our physical and mental working environment.
i am currently preparing the european parliament's proposal for a much-needed revision of the waste shipment regulation.
it must have the circular economy in its dna and digitisation must replace the old-fashioned paperwork that spans the backbone of a harmonised and sustainable internal market for waste transport.
i therefore welcome the commission's initiative for a strategy for sustainable textiles.
and the energy.
and then we have to give the single market a whirlwind so that the whole value chain of the textile industry - from the designer to the consumer - puts climate and the environment at the centre in a truly sustainable way.
our best weapon against putin is a green transition and energy independence.
it is, of course, also about tackling the climate crisis before it is too late.
i have to say, madam president, there are many, many decisions that need to be made in the eu in order to get us out of the energy jam that putin has put us in.
we've known this for a long time: the less energy we use, the better it is for our wallet, for the environment, for the climate, for health, for productivity.
and now we understand that energy is also security policy, which has the potential to turn off the lights of our free and prosperous world.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy efficiency directive is implemented.
it makes tools that relate to energy efficiency require skilled labour, competent advice, funding and flexibility for each country in the eu to get started in ways that work for it.
for the eu, the conscious use of the economic muscle of society is essential if we are to be able to afford everything we want and need to afford to protect in an increasingly uncertain future: the climate, the environment, health and, not least, freedom, democracy and peace.
this has a negative impact on the eu's competitiveness, our capacity for innovation, sustainable growth and job creation.
the whole ecosystem needs to be activated, and everyone needs to know where to find each other when they need to.
let us stop speculating on rising food, energy and raw material prices.
what we're voting on needs to work so that we can meet our part of the paris agreement and live up to our own climate law without destroying our cohesion or our economy.
in particular, policies that are not just to suit their own country, their own voters or their own climate policy one-liners, which may sound green, but cannot stand the litmus test of whether they can also function in the complex realities of reality.
and then there's the war in europe and the energy crisis.
when we vote on how long we will allow the sale of cars that run on fossil fuels, we decide whether we want to be on the side of the past or the future; whether we want to be on the side of the car industry or the climate and future generations.
unfortunately, in the climate committee, the world lost several votes by just one vote.
if you ask me, and if you ask climate science, stopping in 2035 is already too late.
the forces that are trying to water down and delay the green transition of our cars are failing the climate and the future of our children.
but now we must put into words the great ambitions we have set in our climate law.
but we must remember that at the same time european agriculture is the greenest agriculture we have in the world, the most sustainable agriculture we have in the world.
when i look at my home country denmark, we are probably one of the most sustainable and climate-friendly countries in the world.
and it is precisely innovation and new technology that must help to solve our climate objectives, including biogas, carbon farming and many other elements that we must put into practice.
as i always say, we must reduce emissions, not production.
and i would like to hear - because we haven't talked about that much in this debate - what is the commission going to send as signals to scientists, entrepreneurs and investors about what kind of community it is, what kind of agile cooperation we would very much like to have in the eu, also with scientists and companies, who invite new solutions - for example, biological solutions such as biological pesticides instead of chemical pesticides, more digitisation - also of our food production, so that we become better at taking care of both the climate and the environment with an impact on biodiversity.
so if we now drop natural gas and nuclear energy from the eu's taxonomy of sustainable investment, what does that really mean?
that we, like those who, on behalf of the voters, passed the world's most ambitious climate law just two years ago, are now pushing the goal of climate neutrality far into the future - far beyond the promised 2050!
the fact is that, with the taxonomy in hand, we can demand that gas plants that receive investment in the taxonomy use 100% renewable or low-emission gas by 2036. are we really going to pass up that opportunity?
and should we ignore the fact that the un's climate panel, the ipcc, recommends that we include nuclear energy on an equal footing with other renewable energy types?
and should we turn our backs on the european union's own research centre, which last year concluded that nuclear energy is a sustainable form of energy?
right now, the price of energy in europe is exploding.
while we're experiencing acute energy poverty around the small homes, the revenue for the energy companies is exploding.
it is not fair that anyone should be forced to turn off the electricity, turn off the heat or go to bed hungry while the energy companies are raking in money.
let's help the lowest income earners and let's create the green and sustainable jobs of the future!
the 2019 election was too many people's climate election.
that is why i am proud that today we are showing the europeans that our promise of action on climate change was not empty words.
in 2017, aviation emissions accounted for approximately 3,8% of total eu emissions.
the share of aviation emissions is expected to rise dramatically unless we act.
if we do not act now, we have only two options: either we stop flying, or we abandon our climate goals, and those are the paths that fortunately not many people want to take.
we all agree that european aviation must be sustainable and green.
we also propose a higher requirement for the incorporation of synthetic fuels from 100% sustainable sources.
we will also have better controls, transparency and we will be able to tackle the environmental and climate-damaging emissions that are not related to co2.
it is very important to me that we have a sustainable and sensible forestry strategy in the eu.
but it is not sensible and sustainable to leave the forests untouched, as the left wants.
it's sustainable and common sense, and it's climate friendly.
biodiversity, carbon storage, i'm absolutely convinced that we can achieve that.
– mr president, europe’s energy system is under severe pressure.
well, for years, some of us have been saying that the safest, cleanest and cheapest energy is that which you don’t use.
yes, there have been eu—wide energy—saving goals for the past decade, but they have been voluntary and with mixed results at best.
investment in energy efficiency increased, but energy use fell by only 4% between 2010 and 2019. without realising, this continent has been cruising on autopilot into deeper and deeper dependency on imported energy.
they are increasing efforts to ramp up renewables and energy efficiency.
at a dramatic speed, they’re rolling out urgent energy—saving plans.
we have the opportunity now to set a straight way out of energy dependency, creating a solid way of getting rid of putin’s natural gas well before 2030, because this is what an ambitious energy efficiency directive can deliver.
i believe that we have such an agreement on the table this week that we can adopt: a directive setting a 40% target for energy efficiency in 2030 compared to the 2017 baseline scenario, a target which will be binding for both the eu as a whole and for the individual member states.
we have yearly energy savings on 2%, raising the energy—savings obligation from the commission’s 1.5% proposal.
we have an agreement to prioritise the people who suffer from energy poverty, as they are the ones that need energy—efficiency measures the most because they have the hardest economic situation.
we’ve strengthened the ‘energy efficiency first’ principle, creating more comprehensive governance, and we have agreed that all municipalities with more than 35 000 inhabitants need to make heating and cooling plans to get the most efficient solutions.
furthermore, we have agreed on energy—efficiency schemes for datacentres, making sure that they don’t waste the heat but use it to warm up buildings.
energy efficiency has long been known as the most cost-effective way to reduce co2 so we reach our climate goals on time.
it has now also been recognised that energy efficiency is in fact a powerful weapon to reduce the eu's energy dependence on russia and other hostile suppliers.
and every week, families and businesses, large and small, across the eu are learning that energy savings can and should be made to make money at a time when energy prices are not the only thing skyrocketing.
energy efficiency has thus become, on an unfortunate background and with too much delay, an indispensable instrument in all countries, all companies and all households, and this is why the review we are now proposing is taken seriously.
i think the debate shows that there’s a great consensus amongst the political groups that we need more ambition on energy efficiency.
now these percentages might seem like a small deal, but actually, a 40% target will have the effect that we can cut gas emissions by 190 billion cubic metres annually.
we have made an agreement, which is good for the climate and bad for putin.
the muscle that should enable us to do all the good and indispensable things for each other and the next generation like the climate, nature, the education of our children and youth, social safety nets, peace and freedom, which must never lack resources because we have not taken care of our economic muscle.
it does so, in part, because for too many years we have not given high priority to the biodiversity and potential of the ocean.
but also because much of our economic and ecological sustainability depends on how we treat the oceans in and around the eu.
the report has become a bit long because it repeats a lot of what we have already said that we agree on in relation to biodiversity.
but it also says something new and important, namely that we must have a push for the deployment of wind energy - including the liquid part of the system.
of course, we must also continue to drill wisely into the seabed to get the energy we simply cannot do without right now.
the war has also brought with it a serious energy crisis, which is driving energy prices skyrocketing and has major consequences for european households and businesses.
when putin forces us to cut back on the heat, we have to increase our energy production from renewable energy, coal, oil and shale gas.
this requires that we give priority to the energy for fertiliser production and at the same time that farmers can buy fertiliser at a profitable price.
also here in particular, it has been on energy infrastructure.
for decades, we've known that we're heading for a climate catastrophe.
we can see that climate change is not just about the future, climate change is now.
how do we keep climate change at a level that doesn't lead to a climate catastrophe?
the paris agreement sets a target of global warming of no more than 1.5 degrees.
so our job in egypt is to make sure that climate change doesn't go any higher than that.
that is why we must give priority to energy for the fertiliser industry.
filling the plate is as important as having enough energy to heat the houses.
this legislation is the whole foundation of our sustainable transition.
now companies can no longer hide behind sustainability slogans, but literally have to be accountable for their actions.
many new energy technologies are also better for the climate and the environment.
because we're messing around with individual projects that don't fit in with the rest of the energy sector.
for what is the use of having large parks of giant wind turbines, building clusters of energy islands, building large power-to-x plants, etc., if the clean and renewable energy that can be produced cannot reach the market throughout the eu via plentiful pipelines, learning opportunities, ports and other transport routes?
that is the way we will never get energy prices down and security of supply up.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, this climate summit in egypt was indeed a disappointment, taking into consideration that we did not manage to agree on the reduction targets that we need, we did not manage to increase the speed of the climate action sufficiently.
we did manage one positive thing, which was the compensation fund that the rich countries have to pay to the less rich countries, compensating them for the climate damage which is being done, which is mainly our responsibility in the rich world historically, in a historical perspective.
the climate targets that we have are way too low.
if we also look out in the world, russia climate neutral by 2060, china 2060, india 2070 – 20 years too late.
it is in our common interest to develop renewable energy as quickly as possible, install heat pumps, strengthen our electricity grid, install solar panels and wind turbines.
let's get a new renewable energy law passed to kick-start the green transition.