it perfectly describes the needs of today's european union, facing the health crisis, the rise of aggressive powers and climate disruption.
on another topic, we are also ready in case the russian leadership decides to weaponise the energy issue.
this behaviour has already damaged russia’s credibility as a reliable energy supplier.
but one of the main lessons we have already learned from this crisis is that we must diversify our energy sources and we must get rid of the dependency on russian gas.
our alternatives are renewables because, though renewables are clean and good for the climate, they are also home grown and good for our independence.
let us build up our response capabilities to new threats, make progress in the short term on the creation of strategic reserves and joint gas purchases and continue to lead the way towards the ultimate goal of building a new global energy order based on renewable and socially just energy.
as a union we need to reduce our dependency on russia, especially when it comes to energy.
what energy we use is a geo-strategic decision.
madam president of the commission, european energy sovereignty is not based on russian or american gas, but on the rapid expansion of renewable energies.
the conflict has already claimed thousands of lives, made millions of people internally displaced, and posed major challenges to ukraine, its people, and transcarpathian hungarians among them, including unemployment, high energy prices, inflation, and the coronavirus pandemic.
first of all, ms von der leyen mentioned that russia is now weaponising energy policy.
there is no energy policy without other policies.
appeasing the bully or consigning to her more territorial control will not bring about sustainable de-escalation.
here in the european union, we need to push harder and faster to cut our energy dependence on russian gas and oil.
because we have already committed to the green transition, this will be a win-win for our energy independence but also good for the planet.
the commission should immediately stop its attempts to subject these largely dual industries to taxonomic, social or environmental rules which will dry up investment in a strategic sector.
the imposition of a tax on electricity companies that do not invest in renewable energy is also a pressing need, because every euro we invest in green energy will reduce our strategic vulnerability.
it means energy security and energy independence.
we need to reduce our consumption and speed up fit for 55, investing massively in renewables, in energy efficiency and in energy saving.
now we have to make those changes sustainable.
sustainable peace has to be negotiated.
however, the hard work still needs to be done, and one part of the hard work is our energy future.
i thank the commission for coming up with proposals today for more jointly working on energy.
will you now finally move on an energy union where we take decisions together, because russia is profiting every day from 27 member states who are competing with each other instead of working together on our energy future?
to the commission, i really want bolder proposals on energy efficiency.
we have not seen new targets on the table that will accelerate energy efficiency, because that’s the key – energy we do not use is energy we do not have to import.
moreover, at a time when the fight against climate change is confronting us with a challenge that threatens our lives, education for environmental sustainability must play a key role.
we must do so without delay by the scheduled date of 2025. if we want to preserve our values and ensure a more sustainable, tolerant and inclusive european society in the future, we must ensure proper citizenship education.
it's the climate challenge, the challenge of the new digital age, we know the fake news we face in all of these challenges, even in vaccination, which until recently was considered an unquestioned agenda.
empowering people of all ages to assume civic responsibility is the best and most sustainable investment to strengthen our democracies.
i also supported this report, mr president, because it highlights the problems that exist in the creation of the energy union and the possibility of transferring energy from one place to another in the european union.
we have seen and felt national nationalism in the energy sector.
we haven't seen any energy buying here.
the states that were first in line for oil and gas pipelines and other energy networks from russia are now actually the last and feel very insecure and their citizens feel very uncertain about the future.
this is true for energy.
building on the work of the eu energy council, president biden and i have just launched another agreement, and this is threefold.
and the third is: we focus together on building a greener future with climate neutrality.
we engage with our energy—intensive industry to further reduce the demand.
this is existential that we look at the energy efficiency.
thus, the us and the european union have not only worked closely together on designing an effective and determined response to russia’s war, but we are also supporting each other in the transition towards green energy.
never again also means supporting the new sanctions package, an energy embargo.
in particular, the european union summit reaches a key agreement to start also alleviating the impact on households and businesses in energy prices.
on the one hand, we are making progress in securing energy supplies, which naturally concerns the northern and eastern partners in particular, by means of joint gas purchases and storage capacity.
on the other hand, we are taking measures to counter the rise in energy prices in the iberian peninsula partners, by recognising the energy island, which is a very important step, but we must also understand that it is only a first step, because we need to take measures to be able to cushion this increase in energy prices in all the countries of the european union.
the european council's agreement must be the first step towards putting in place a next generation-inspired plan to finance the triple extra effort required by the war in energy, defence and refugee reception, as well as the survival of the ukrainian government itself.
the criminal attack by putin forces us to accelerate the energy transition, to improve interconnections in europe and to improve energy saving.
accelerating the energy transition will enable us to lower our energy bills, reduce our external dependence and combat climate change.
there is no better way to guarantee our energy sovereignty than to stop relying on tyrants who use their fossil fuels as instruments of blackmail.
the fifth package of sanctions is to ban the import of coal, oil and gas from russia, cut off the kremlin's access to cryptocurrency exchanges, take action against oligarchs' enablers, and take more aggressive measures against russian banks and energy giants.
even after the atrocities done in grozny and in syria, very similar to what we see today in bucha, even after putin invaded crimea and eastern ukraine, some governments continued to hope for good business with russia and made us more and more dependent on goods from russia, on energy and on other items.
we need to save energy.
rising energy costs are a nuisance to some and an existential threat to others.
of course, many of the instruments needed are indeed national ones, but it is clear that we need solidarity among member states to deal with this crisis – solidarity in sharing energy and infrastructure, solidarity to enable measures, solidarity with everyone fleeing ukraine, and solidarity with the sovereign nation of ukraine.
on energy autonomy, it is important that it is not done with ideology but with pragmatism: we need to diversify our sources, but that is not enough, they depend on as many regimes that are unstable, such as algeria.
we must understand that europe is a continent which is currently energy-poor, but it is not energy-poor and we have an obligation to exploit these energy sources.
in conclusion, this war has revealed a weakness in the union, which is mainly the model of industrial and economic development which we have decided to pursue for the last twenty or thirty years: a model that has made us addicted to everything: from energy, to defense, to food security, to our value chain.
the same approach must now be adopted to ensure adequate energy security in europe and to counteract the shocks that may result from a blockade of gas imports from russia, which will have different effects in the individual member states.
diversification of energy supplies and sources, a plan for joint gas storage and purchasing, increased investment in renewables and interconnections, joint support for sectors in crisis and a ceiling on the cost of gas, against the speculation that is putting households and businesses in difficulty: these are the actions to be taken.
we have succeeded in introducing, through our amendments, effective protections for the marine environment, including the need to ban environmentally harmful industrial extractive activities, including drilling, in marine protected areas.
the report is therefore certainly a step towards a sustainable and inclusive blue economy.
and the current fisheries regulations, which are already being applied on the basis of international conventions, also show that they are producing long-term results, restoring stocks, transferring biodiversity to these marine areas.
i think we need to focus on selective fishing methods rather than industrial fishing and we need to restore the health and biodiversity of our seas, which this report certainly does.
after the environmental sacrifices of the new cap and while the war in ukraine reminds us of the urgency of moving away from an agricultural model based on hydrocarbons for its fertilisers and pesticides, the european parliament has taken the right position on the action plan for organic farming, a key sector also for my country, italy.
our intensive model has gone beyond the limits of the environment and it is urgent to change our food model, to produce better and not necessarily more.
the conflict has caused prices to soar and has hampered the supply of raw materials such as wheat, cereals and energy.
energy security and supply and the fight against certain shortages have become a priority.
to break free from gazprom's grip, manage rising energy prices and secure supply chains, europe needs to diversify supply, accelerate green energy production, jointly buy energy and reduce demand, all while preserving the long-term global competitiveness of eu companies, which suffer from high energy costs.
i also welcome the commission's presentation of the repowereu plan on 18 may to reduce our energy dependence on russia through joint european action to promote more affordable, safer and more sustainable energy.
we are at a historic turning point for our energy transition and self-sufficiency.
the green transition will bring new opportunities in terms of jobs, while in the long term we will be able to break the energy dependency that we are suffering from.
so we need to accelerate the movement on energy efficiency, on renewables and on hydrogen.
energy poverty now affects nearly 34 million people in the union.
as announced in the 'adapting to objective 55' package and with a view to ensuring a fair transition to climate neutrality, the commission proposed to examine the relevant social and employment aspects of the green transition.
under the french presidency, the council engaged in discussions with a view to the final adoption of the proposal for recommendations to ensure a just transition to climate neutrality, which tackles energy poverty and aims to promote access to essential energy services for individuals.
this proposal promotes increased monitoring of the implementation of the just transition policies, in particular the impact on the most disadvantaged groups and the risk of energy poverty.
in addition, some member states have already promoted access to energy as an essential service for the most vulnerable groups, in line with principle 20 of the european pillar of social rights.
so it should address the existing weaknesses of the ukrainian economy and lay the foundation for sustainable long-term growth.
it could align the legal environment with european standards and radically upgrade ukraine’s productive capacity.
- the next item is the report (a4-0310/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0406 - c4-0410/97).
for the epp, we badly need an analysis of the cumulative effects of the war: the rising energy prices, the shortages in raw materials, new legislation on the table, the impact that has on companies and on citizens within the eu.
the necessary investment for the roll-out of renewable energy.
and finally, let's be very honest, we are asking a lot from our industries, and don't get me wrong: the epp wants to achieve the objectives of the fit for 55 package and the climate law, but we may have to look at a legislative embargo for new legislation to make sure that we are not burdening certain industries that are suffering badly with the cumulative effect of higher prices, the ambitious fit for 55 package.
in parallel, we must work towards a decoupling strategy that includes the construction of regasification plants and internal interconnections, joint negotiation with alternative suppliers and an urgent acceleration of renewable energies.
in this respect, i am totally against what the representative of the european people's party has said: i believe that now more than ever, we need to make progress in promoting policies to combat climate change, because they have brought to light the very shortcomings we have as the european union.
it is intolerable that, while the big energy multinationals are reaping extraordinary profits from the profits that have fallen from the sky, it is the most vulnerable who are paying the consequences of this war.
instead of repeating the mistakes of the past and cutting back in the midst of a crisis, we must extend the escape clause of the stability and growth pact to invest in new technologies, social justice, stronger defence and a carbon-free future.
this could lead to more social inequality, a rise in unemployment and an increase in energy poverty.
the eu has the choice to leave no one behind, to mitigate the rise in energy costs, to ensure decent and affordable housing for all.
the eu has the choice to ensure that climate transition is a fair transition where industry pays its fair share.
the war comes at a time when energy prices have already gone through the roof before the russian invasion of ukraine and 36 million people in the eu in 2020 - these are your figures, mrs von der leyen - could not be adequately heated.
war, increased demand after the pandemic, speculation in the electricity markets and the wrong design of the energy market in the eu are contributing to this energy price cost explosion.
rent costs are rising, food prices are rising, energy prices are rising, inflation is eating away at wages and pensions.
that is why we now need a europe-wide energy price cap so that energy poverty can be effectively tackled and not become more and more out of control.
we need a european effort now to protect the lowest-income european households from inflation, energy poverty and hunger.
and that requires a crisis profit tax, levied on the additional profits of the energy companies, the defense companies - the share price of rheinmetall has risen by 120% since march - and also the pandemic winners, the pharmaceutical companies and the big tech companies.
but i think that billions and billions of dollars in the defence sector is the wrong way to go, and that money must go to the socially just energy transition, which will get us out of dependence on fossil fuels as soon as possible.
secondly, as we reduce our dependency on russian fossil fuels, we should not create dependency on any other single route of transport, single source of energy or oil supplying country.
we need to work with member states to see if they need the money, if they will access it, and if not, the position of our group, the epp, is to try to use those sums for large energy projects, transnational energy projects, to interconnect, to bring energy to where it is needed within the european union.
but i think we should also be clear that the war in ukraine plunges us also into a new social economic crisis, and with skyrocketing energy prices, with deep—diving purchasing power and increasing inflation, i fear that the most vulnerable will bear the burden.
we need support for the citizens and small businesses for rising energy prices.
madam minister, i think we should not talk about energy poverty any more.
increased inequalities, the return of war in europe and the existential threat of climate change is a scary prospect.
price inflation in the eu has reached levels not seen since the 70s, but half, we know, is directly due to fossil energy price rises.
and it is why we need action on the energy sector.
it is not time, in our opinion, to restrict our accommodative monetary policy, which would have disastrous economic consequences, but to accelerate our energy transition.
i mean, climate change does not wait.
we know that our green deal and energy transition is the best solution to the crisis that we are having, so i more than disagree with what the epp has said this morning today in the plenary.
we know that we need to accelerate that energy transition and, for that, we will probably need also no financial instruments to be put in place.
that is why we want also to call for a new energy sovereignty facility to facilitate member states to accelerate that transition.
this means that every day we are paying hundreds of millions of euros to russia to have the energy resources and they are using this money for the military and for the war machine against ukraine, maybe tomorrow against moldova, and maybe in few days against the baltic states or finland.
but in september, october and november, when the winter is coming, we will again be in a situation where we are paying many, many times more money for the resources, the energy, from russia to have a warm house, to have functioning technology, and to have functioning businesses.
that’s why today the germans and austrians and also the hungarians –i have to say, unfortunately – are saying that they can’t stop importing energy from russia now.
and this money will be used for their new occupations and their new expansions, and that’s the fault of the european energy policy.
today, we have seen more than ever how important are the joint undertakings when we speak about health, clean energy and economic recovery.
i therefore ask the joint undertakings to take these aspects into account and go further by being more concerned with the well-being of every employee and ensure a balanced working environment.
i have to remind you that in the last three months, from 24 february, the eu has paid eur 50 billion for energy from russia.
these challenges can be summed up in five clear points: the danger of frozen conflicts, of course, the russian aggression in those regions, the threat of poverty, the threat of climate change and the rise of nationalism.
and politically, ireland plays a central role in shaping common policies, particularly on finance, on the environment and on providing vital aid to ukraine.
do we have the ambition and urgency required to achieve energy security and tackle an existential climate crisis?
we must redouble efforts to accelerate the decarbonisation of our society, break our dependence on fossil fuels, and provide a more resilient, secure and sustainable energy system for future generations.
there are many who continue to ignore or casually dismiss the scientific consensus about climate change.
as far as ireland is concerned, we unequivocally accept that climate change is a critical threat and it must be a defining issue for us.
an immediate and large-scale reduction in greenhouse gas emissions is crucial.
we believe that europe must push forward with its initiatives, including the european green deal and the sustainable finance agenda.
we have enacted legislation to put a legally binding target of reducing emissions by 2030 to 51% below 2018 levels.
let us make sure that the regions which are most affected get a genuine opportunity to transition to a longer-term, more secure and more prosperous role in energy production.
what i like also – and this is a change from your predecessor and successor, who was also humble enough to recognise four years ago that ireland was a laggard when it comes to the climate transition.
last year ireland’s emissions grew by 6%, so we are still not there.
decades of energy dependence on russia, which was a political choice made by the european union in the past, has made us weak.
the energy transition, which this commission has been working on for a long time in this parliament, will be successful if it is not driven by ideology and if we learn from our mistakes in the past.
i do take your point on climate change.
i am passionately committed to this, and to the restoration of biodiversity as well.
if i say so, offshore wind will be a very big development in ireland over the next decade or so and we will be a net exporter of energy in the mid—2030s because of the fact that we have a lot of wind around our coast, with seas seven times the land mass of ireland.
in terms of the energy transition, and i think marco zanni made the point in relation to the geopolitical situation and ties to china, the war on ukraine is causing us all to reflect very deeply on how we develop relationships into the future, how we maintain them in terms of the rule of law, values and democracy.
suffice to say that we need to work much harder on climate change, on a whole range of issues, to reduce the necessity for migration and to enable sustainability within many countries in the neighbourhood of europe and in africa in terms of economic sustainability, social sustainability, climate sustainability.
we also discussed energy prices, including the possibility of trying to lower the gas price by capping it, together with our international partners.
to become more energy independent, we will act in four key areas.
first, we will diversify the fuels we use and the sources they come from; second, we will speed up the deployment of renewables and the permitting procedures; third, we will do more to save energy and promote energy efficiency; and finally, we will invest in infrastructure, interconnections and renewables.
the second part is energy saving.
and energy efficiency sounds so easy, it is a big topic.
and this shows the power of energy savings and energy efficiency.
for instance, the rising energy prices that have driven up the costs of fertilisers or of transporting exports.
others are more long-term and structural, such as the effects of extreme weather linked to climate change.
the third area is responding and investing in making local markets more sustainable and resilient.
then climate change made water scarce, and the desert swallowed hundreds of kilometres of fertile land, year after year.
and for this, the eu budget has already earmarked eur 3 billion to invest in agriculture and nutrition, water and sanitation programmes, precision farming, nanotechnology for fertilisers, you don’t need the energy any more.
and, honourable members, it is only natural that many of our partners around the world see this conflict through the prism of food or energy prices.
probably, generally speaking, we can say that farmers are not seen anymore as the bad guys polluting our environment, because that was the perception over the last years.
the climate emergency and the food crisis, to which the commission itself has referred, seem to indicate that the migratory pressure is not likely to abate.
exiting russian hydrocarbons would both strengthen our energy independence and weaken vladimir putin.
energy infrastructure is designed to last, and replacing or adapting it requires considerable time and resources.
we welcome the european commission's drive to accelerate the energy transition with the repowereu plan.
more renewables, more efficiency: this is the beginning of energy wisdom.
the ever-increasing, ever-faster, ever-further distance is leading to energy expenditure that we simply cannot afford any longer.
i really loved when he mentioned that we should not see any more the farmers as a huge risk or damage to the environment.
but at the same time, we have to remind that from 24 february, eu has paid over eur 50 billion to russia for energy.
to ms borzan on energy, it’s good that you mentioned it, now i can repeat that we have provided an hrk 5 billion package to subsidise our households, to subsidise our micro-, small and medium-sized business, to subsidise our farmers, to subsidise our fishermen, to subsidise our pensioners, to lower the vat from 25 to 5% from 13 to 5 for all those products which are mostly used by our citizens and thus mitigate the effects of the spike of the prices.
that is why we must accelerate our efforts to provide concrete support in the various areas of cooperation - energy, security and others - with the western balkans - that is the subject of the meeting - and reiterate that the western balkan countries must join as soon as possible, but i also said that adherence to the values of the european union, in particular alignment with our sanctions policies, which reflect those values, is essential.
but we will need, in the coming weeks, in the coming months, to show that our actions on climate, on food security, on security and defence, on all the great challenges we face, are accelerating, that our action is strengthening, and that war does not prevent us from strengthening our europe, but on the contrary, highlights its vital necessity.
and what ukraine has reminded us is how much drive and how much passion is behind the way towards european membership, how much energy this perspective for the future involves, how much it lifts people’s spirits.
if this is the goal that we share and shared at the beginning, i think the results are not entirely satisfactory and i think the impact that these sanctions have had on the price of energy is helping putin not only to fund more and more of his war, but also to use gas and energy as a weapon of blackmail.
if the financial flows to russia had not been so high in these months, in these weeks, because of the price increases, russia would not have been able to cut energy resources today and also to jeopardize the plan that the european commission had presented to us to secure our winter, the supplies to enable us to take those steps forward in terms of diversifying energy resources, in terms of building new infrastructure, in terms of guaranteeing energy independence for europe.
i think that this is something that needs to be considered and i think that the time has finally come for an agreement on a ceiling on energy prices, a proposal which my government has been bringing to the european table for a long time.
they raise a very serious issue, which is that we have been looking with concern at the wrong choices that have emerged since the war in ukraine, the energy dependence on russia, and that we must be careful to avoid that this leads to another dependence on other realities, in particular on china, especially in relation to the choices that are being made.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is now clear to everyone that putin's attack is not limited to military aggression in ukraine, but is aimed at creating economic and political instability in europe: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of the illegal import of agricultural products from the soviet union, such as the blockade of grain supplies to ukrainian ports, which is putting the countries of north africa in particular at risk of a serious food crisis with repercussions on the flow of migrants to the european mediterranean countries, and the manoeuvres on russian gas supplies, which are driving up energy prices, which in turn are driving up inflation.
today credible economic interventions such as those in the country-specific recommendations can no longer be done without concerted action against expensive energy at european level.
for the final sentence, many of us have all said today here that the council have to really understand that we are paying even more money now to russia, to finance the war thanks to the huge energy crisis.
so what will be the plan from the eu to really have a limit for energy prices?
– mr president, i think we should say that since the war in ukraine energy prices and food prices are going through the roof and people struggle to make ends meet while putin is cutting off gas supplies to entire countries and capitalists make profits by speculating on markets and thereby hurting millions of households.
so we need to have a profit windfall tax and use the profits from this tax to mitigate the social consequences of rising energy prices and inflation.
we need to coordinate european action now to avoid a crisis in this winter, and i think we cannot wait until the social climate fund is in full action.
please present a minimum income schemes directive as soon as possible and explore the possibilities of energy price caps for basic consumptions for households so no one is left behind.
right now, rising basic costs like food and energy are drowning out lower incomes.
the international energy agency reminded us how, by 2022, energy companies have earned over 200 billion euros.
second, to accelerate the energy transition.
and if you’re looking now on the energy sector and if we imagine what will happen in few years, if we are, of course, hating so much all the nuclear power and fossil fuels and we’re just hoping for the wind and sun – i love also sun and wind, it’s amazing things – but unfortunately, it’s not enough.
it’s not enough for our energy sector.
so that’s why i would like to just hear your opinion today when we have war in ukraine, we have this kind of problems in energy sector and we see the result of the green deal in those first years actually.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, when i hear your discussion on the increase in energy prices, i feel as if i am witnessing a repetition of the insane management of covid.
at least you had the excuse of having suffered this pandemic while the energy crisis, you caused and even amplified it.
this energy covid is revoltingly stupid.
today you want to introduce quotas for energy consumption.
tomorrow, you'll be applying for an energy pass to monitor the consumption of our compatriots.
madam president, a difficult winter is only for the people, not for the energy companies.
for a year now prices have been soaring because of another so-called 'european solution', the green transition, liberalisation, de-mining and energy trading, supported by all parties.
the small cash benefits perpetuate energy poverty and guarantee the solvency of the groups.
the answer is to intensify the fight for a drastic reduction and cap on electricity, gas and oil bills, the abolition of the special tax and vat on fuel and energy.
in the hands of the people, the exploitation of all energy sources, with energy as a social good and not a commodity.
madam president, commissioner, minister, the citizens are very concerned about the exorbitant rise in energy prices and they are asking us for decisiveness and unity of action.
we must be careful when designing fiscal mechanisms which could jeopardize investments in our energy system.
moreover, at this time all sources of energy must be available.
it is also necessary to limit fluctuations in the co2 emissions market and to have more flexibility to help industrial sectors.
if i look at the situation in the energy markets, we probably agree quite broadly that nothing is normal anymore.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the energy crisis is caused by a system which has been faltering for some time and the war in ukraine has only highlighted its fragility, to the detriment of the citizens and certainly not of the speculators.
the european union must now provide a concrete response to help households and businesses who are being brought to their knees by the energy crisis.
but to ensure a future for our children, we need a radical change, and that can only be achieved by accelerating the transition to renewable sources and by giving priority to energy efficiency, without looking for gas elsewhere and without investing in nuclear.
the transition to 100 percent renewable energy by 2040 is technically feasible, economically sustainable, and, look at it, also cost-effective.
first of all, it's no wonder that we have an energy crisis, when the whole political trend in energy over the last two decades has been that all fossil fuels are bad, we have to shut down nuclear plants, as the germans have done with their great minds, the swedes have shut down, we shut down coal plants, and then we start hoping that the sun, wind and water will solve all our problems, which is impossible with a clean energy policy.
unstable energy cannot ensure a sustainable stable economy, it is simply impossible, no country in the world relies solely on renewable energy.
it's just impossible, it can be part of a big compound, but for the most part you have to have a stable energy in the economy and it can be only gas, nuclear power, coal, fuel oil in estonia, but in the last two decades we have reached a situation where our economy is basically dependent on russian gas and that is really the fault of the european commission, that is the fault of the member states, tomorrow ursula von der leyen will have to talk about how she fights for the people of europe, but she is also personally to blame for germany being in a slump and we are calling the germans' slump overnight and this problem is not being solved.
but we must now also, as a parliament, make a statement and reject all the burdensome legislation: the directive on industrial emissions, the zero pollution package, the proposal for a soil health law, the revision of the environmental penal code, the supply chain law and, and, and.
a stable energy.
and finally, how can the eu’s new energy partnership with azerbaijan be put to use for the eu’s engagement in favour of a sustainable long—term settlement on the conflict?
many argue that the gas deal stands in defiance of the eu’s climate goals and human rights standards.
the most important thing for me is that european response to the energy crisis.
but, to be durable and sustainable, it will have to be a just peace.
it has been largely achieved through the efforts of volunteers and the generosity of people, but it will not be sustainable unless all the member states of the european union contribute.
leaders will discuss russia’s escalatory war of aggression against ukraine and its consequences, including the situation in global food security or the impact on energy prices and on our economy.
the steep increase in energy prices touches all european citizens and businesses and is, therefore, high on the agenda of the european council.
as we know, russia is weaponising energy in an attempt to weaken the resolve and economic power of the european union.
first, we will not allow russia’s weaponising of energy to weaken the resolve and economic power of the eu.
second, key areas for action will include efforts to reduce demand, to ensure security of supply and to lower energy prices.
rising energy prices have a big economic impact on the eu.
another pressing crisis is climate change.
the european council will discuss preparations for the upcoming cop 27 in sharm el-sheikh, and leaders are expected to stress the extreme urgency of strengthening the global response to address the climate emergency in the face of increasingly intense and frequent extreme weather events.
ahead of the 15th conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity in montreal, the european council will also call for the adoption of an ambitious, comprehensive and transformative post-2020 global biodiversity framework to halt and reverse biodiversity loss.
and we will protect europeans from the other war that putin is waging – this is his war on our energy.
i know that europeans are concerned: concerned about inflation, concerned about their energy bills, concerned about the winter.
and in this spirit, the commission agreed yesterday on a strong legislative framework to address the energy crisis.
energy solidarity is a fundamental principle of our treaties, so let’s bring that to life.
more needs to be done to address the price spikes and to address the russian manipulation of the energy market.
but we also see that resisting the russian energy coercion comes at a price.
and if i speak about investment, it is infrastructure, it is energy efficiency and it is renewables.
so the actual solution to maintain our competitiveness is to invest into home—grown sources of energy, especially renewables.
this is not only about energy.
we have an answer to the military challenge, but let’s be honest, we don’t have currently a common understanding how to answer the energy war against the european union.
energy was one of the founding elements of the european union.
just think about the european coal and steel community and the european atomic energy community.
for our founding fathers, de gasperi, schuman and adenauer, it was crystal clear: europe needs energy and only together we can make it.
great result of the energy planning there.
europe has much energy, if we create a real energy union, and that’s why my group is supporting the proposals from the european commission.
after the energy crisis, we will arrive at a food crisis and the commission, under the lead of frans timmermans, is now presenting new legislation, for example, on pesticides.
so let’s go to brussels today and tomorrow and let’s deliver binding energy solidarity, real energy market in europe, and a moratorium for additional burden.
that is why it is also necessary for the union to implement a solidarity mechanism to redistribute the exorbitant and unfair profits of the energy companies and to tackle this unacceptable situation of speculation.
but this will not be enough if we don't address energy prices or energy supply, because to win this war we have to make progress on energy self-sufficiency.
thirdly, a joint mechanism for the purchase of energy at lower prices must be established and the european parliament must be involved in the negotiations.
this is why he is using energy as a weapon against us.
we, finally, took very much needed measures to end our toxic dependence on russian energy imports.
and we all know putin’s game plan right now: doing whatever it takes to spread fear to destabilise our democracies in ukraine with state terrorism, drone and missile strikes on cities and in the rest of europe by trying to fuel the fear of energy shortages and an explosion of prices.
but if you believe that food sovereignty can be achieved by agro-industries dependent on energy-intensive fertilisers or a global food system where massive amounts of crops are simply wasted in intensive livestock farming, you are wrong.
we have to build a truly ecological, sustainable agricultural system that is also part of our commitment to the paris goals.
just as with next generation eu, we will need to invest together a european solidarity fund with common balance to invest in through the renovation wave and the expansion of renewables, to counter putin’s escalation strategy, to become less dependent on autocratic regimes for our energy supply.
and i’m not only talking about russia here, because also azerbaijan is not a democracy, to fund the necessary measures to tackle climate change and to protect our citizens from economic and social hits because social equality is essential for democracy.
people are sobbing under the exploding prices of energy and food.
the european union must now finally get its act together and find the courage to tackle the energy market failure with bold policies.
to heal society, we need to shift now towards social justice and climate change.
we also need the re-launch of the sure short-time working programme to ensure jobs in the energy crisis.
we need to invest now in the future to protect the climate and to get our society out of fossil fuel dependence as soon as possible.
this is also one of the measures, ladies and gentlemen, to defuse putin's terrible war of aggression and force him to the negotiating table, namely to make it clear to him that there is a clear, strong political answer to the blackmail at the gas tap, which is: we do not need your gas because we are investing in the future and in the climate.
madam president, commission president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is facing an unprecedented energy crisis.
in the 21st century, energy is as important as air, because all aspects of human life are controlled by energy.
ladies and gentlemen, the energy supply is easily monopolized.
some energy companies are not growing their profits by a percentage, but sometimes.
it seems absurd and socially unfair that when energy prices were quite low compared to today, green energy was subsidized with taxpayers' money, and now the same taxpayers have to charge them for the profits by paying double or even triple the cost.
this is the cost of producing energy sources such as coal, gas, oil and their products.
solar or wind energy is not expensive and should not be sold at a multiple of the price.
i call on the european commission and the council to establish a regulation that strictly regulates the activities of energy-related companies and that their profits do not exceed 15 or 20 percent.
and then there's our energy market, where gas is being weaponized.
the eu and the commission in particular, has already put forward several instruments to this end, such as the taxation of profits of energy companies.
in the netherlands, this is used to pay for the support for energy-intensive smes such as bakers.
responsibility to do everything possible to keep your own energy production up to date.
it is no longer simply paying skyrocketing energy bills, it is also dealing with a shopping cart, with climbing food prices and facing mortgage repayments as rates soar.
putin now has to use energy as a weapon against our economy, and we should have been prepared for that.
but we weren’t, we chose to be shackled to putin’s gas and at the next european council you will again have to discuss how to deal with the ongoing energy crisis.
yes, we will need to reduce demand while ensuring security of supply, but we will also have to take courageous decisions to contain energy prices.
we need to impose windfall taxes on the energy companies, and all this without reneging on our climate goals, whether for 2030 or 2050. we have to stay true to our commitments: phasing out fossil fuels – not just russian ones – and speeding up renewables.
but about now the crisis, what we will see in this winter, the problem is that we can’t win two wars at the same time – the war against russia and a war against so-called climate change.
because the plans now from the commission, what it is like, just to hope for the renewable energy, it means that for the sun and wind, the problem is that it will not work in the short term, probably also not in the long term.
so the problem is that we really need to support the nuclear energy.
we really need to support like the normal energy technologies that we have, that we have used, to secure our own companies, our own people in europe for this winter or for the next winters.
the joint communication on the strategic partnership with the gulf rightly focuses on a number of key policy areas from global security to energy security to climate change and clean transition.
while our cooperation with regional actors seeks to resolve the outstanding conflicts both within and between states, with a very strong focus on sustainable human security and protection of human rights and the respect of international law, there are other outside actors whose interference in conflicts in the region is driven by far more sinister motives.
mr president, commissioner, in your speech, you mentioned that we need a long—term solution and sustainable framework for migration policy.
however, when it comes to demonstrating the ability of georgia’s democratic structures and the country’s sustainable commitment to certain key european values, the narrow party political considerations and personal antagonisms of individual strongmen still seem to take priority over strategic national objectives.
you can all talk about price caps on oil and gas, but the best way to end the energy crisis is to end the war.
she mentioned, of course, about the green deal, about climate change, that this will be like the main focus tomorrow in the meeting of the council.