we really need to scale up the investments into renewables in order to tackle our climate responsibilities, but also in order to address the current energy crisis we have, since we are too dependent still on fossil fuels.
we really need to tap into this potential in order to make sure that we can achieve fully-renewable systems.
the greens made a scenario up to 2040 where we can be totally 100% renewable in europe by 2040. and in this scenario we need to have 51% of renewables by 2030, and that is possible.
that investment is economically possible also in the scenario, and the price of energy is not increasing.
in many member states there is now a heated debate about their position in the new, weaker security policy environment.
this is essential for climate, energy security and security.
we need very urgent measures to improve energy efficiency and to change heating systems.
mr president, there has been disagreement in this chamber on many aspects of climate policy and sustainable development.
the waste is designed out of the manufacturing process, and at the end of its useful life, the product provides us with a new raw material that continues its cycle.
we are doing the climate a favor, we are not wasting the planet's finite resources, and we are creating new jobs.
the achievement of climate objectives requires the increased use of batteries to achieve emission reductions in transport and the digitalisation of everyday services is also increasing the need for batteries.
the regulation also makes it easier for consumers to change their batteries themselves and to have a carbon footprint on the labels.
their availability and ethical and environmentally sustainable production.
and how could europe, with its own european, sustainable and popular mining and exploration, become more efficient, faster and more productive?
even many who didn’t realise the importance of this before have now come to realise that we really need to invest in renewables and energy efficiency in europe and get rid of dependency on energy imports.
so we really need to stop importing energy and fossil fuels from russia, but also look beyond that; that we stop using fossil fuels in general, and we phase out those fast.
it’s a way for us to become energy independent, but it’s also a way for us to invest in our climate future and to a healthy environment.
so this is something we really need to look at when we implement this environmental action plan, that the scaling down of fossil fuel subsidies and other environmentally harmful subsidies are now on the top of the agenda of the commission.
these subsidies, the fossil fuels that create environmental problems and climate problems, also environmentally harmful subsidies, they have been a great paradox of our policy.
on one hand, we try to support our environmental policies and a sustainable future and, on the other hand, we have destroyed it, creating damage to our health and to the environment.
they are important in order to achieve our climate goals and to limit global warming to 1.5 °c.
they also help our local environment in many cases, and i think it’s important that the commission realises that there is no security without sustainable environment and sustainable climate policy and vice versa.
that would fail us and our people on urgent climate action.
so we need joint purchases, better coordination and cooperation and solidarity between member states to act on high energy prices, but we also need to hasten our investments in renewables and energy efficiency.
this is urgently needed for those who cannot afford their energy bills.
we should rather tax windfall profits from energy companies and direct them to those in need and also direct them into new investments in renewables and energy efficiency.
filling up our storage facilities and ensuring bearable energy bills will cost a lot of money and we need to invest at the same time to cut energy consumption and ramp up renewables.
so we have to have short-term action to get rid of dependency, long-term action to create independence in energy.
the research into new forms of energy must be invested strongly and quickly.
of course, we must break our dependence on russian energy.
my own country, finland, could become self-sufficient in heat production, for example, by making extensive use of peat energy.
when the cold comes, climate hysteria must be avoided.
climate change has already weakened food security, with extreme weather events increasing worldwide.
one proposed solution to food security is to increase crop area and to abandon biodiversity goals, but it is one example of short-sighted maladaptive adaptation that will pay off in the future.
land use change is one of the main drivers of climate change and a major threat to biodiversity.
for our planet to be able to adapt to the inevitable warming ahead, we need a strong biodiversity to protect us.
mr president, for a long time the price of the emissions trading system has been falling behind in a way that did not encourage the necessary changes.
there were too many allowances, the price was low, and in addition, the free allocation distorted and the ets was weakened by the state-granted emissions trading compensation.
the free allocation is justified by the need to prevent carbon leakage.
at the same time, we have prevented the innovation and investment that could make europe the world's leading provider of carbon-neutral products and solutions.
the new carbon capture mechanism cbam creates a barrier to carbon leakage by pricing products at the european border where they are produced with lower climate standards.
it is essential from the point of view of industry and commerce and hence jobs that we can provide a predictable and stable environment.
it is important to set emissions reductions at an adequate level now, rather than having to tighten the targets in haste along the way.
only this will guarantee operators a predictable environment in which investments are well targeted.
we need to stop energy imports from russia, but they should not be replaced by dependency on fossil imports from elsewhere.
the current energy price surge and the geopolitical situation have exposed vulnerabilities, especially in the form of energy bills in europe.
investments must go into energy efficiency and renewables.
it is completely unacceptable that we are using energy purchases to finance putin's war machine.
now that it is finally clear to everyone that we must disconnect from russian fossil energy on a fast timetable, it is important to understand that we must also disconnect from fossil energy.
we must strive for energy independence, and that will be achieved by investing in renewable energy sources and improving energy efficiency.
there is a strong synergy between the disengagement from russian energy and the climate objectives, if you will.
unfortunately, some have used the war as an excuse to get away from the climate targets we have set for europe.
the climate crisis is not a problem in the future, but an acute crisis in progress, and we cannot afford to fail to address it.
today we know that we have succeeded in this in the field of climate change, but there are many other areas where cooperation is needed.
– mr president, the greens largely welcome the proposal made yesterday by the commission and are delighted to see that the commission now is focusing very much on cutting our fossil fuel reliance and shifting our solutions to renewables and energy efficiency – so not just on short-term sourcing and ensuring security of gas supplies.
energy efficiency and renewables are both a short- and long—term solution to increase our energy independence and it’s what our climate commitments require.
we should invest now in sustainable solutions straight away to make sure that we have energy sovereignty for europe, and it’s also good for our economies.
especially, we welcome the legislative amendments increasing the energy efficiency target, the solar roof obligation in the energy performance of buildings directive and the target increase acting on permitting in the renewable energy directive.
however, here we would also like to state that we need to be careful that existing legislation to protect biodiversity is not undermined or ignored.
on the negatives, the sale of ets allowances from the mortgage stability reserve is the biggest mistake, from our point of view, in this proposal, as it increases emissions in the ets.
finding new eu money is always difficult, but we cannot do the energy transition only with eu money.
we need member states and companies to also step up and ensure that they contribute to this transition away from fossil fuels to an energy efficient and renewable eu.
mr president, the commission's published roadmaps for the disengagement from russian energy contain many highly desirable measures, such as increasing energy efficiency, energy saving and renewable sources, but also very questionable choices, such as weakening the emissions trading system and fossil fuel investments.
while we are disengaging from russian energy, we must remember that the climate crisis is not lost on anyone.
that is why we must get rid of not only russian fossil energy but fossil energy, wherever it is produced.
it is of the utmost importance that the solutions that are being taken now because of the war are not in conflict with our climate objectives, and that synergies can be found between them, if we so wish.
finally, it is in the interest of all europeans to move our energy system towards a self-sufficient renewable energy system.
the committee on industry, research and energy has adopted an opinion on the proposal.
we introduced amendments to benchmarks, conditionality, funds and carbon leakage prevention.
in the emissions trading system, carbon leakage risk fisheries purchase a share of their allowances from the market.
now the carbon cap tax cbam needed changes the situation for five industries.
itre proposes that the increase in carbon duties and the abolition of the free allocation of allowances should be introduced later than the commission and envi propose.
the commission is also proposing that the commission should be able to take account of the fact that the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
this would mean continuing with the status quo, avoiding billions in export burdens and curbing carbon leakage.
mr president, parliament has recognised the climate emergency and in response we have signed the paris agreement and enacted the climate act, whereby we ourselves commit ourselves to base climate decisions on scientific advice in order to be on the safe track.
at the same time, it is estimated that 1.5 degrees will be exceeded in less than eight years, and yet we are dealing with a climate package whose baseline target level does not follow scientific advice.
when the overall target is too low, this is repeated for all the parts of the package and does not give any assurance that we are on a sustainable path.
the fit for 55 package, despite its shortcomings, is taking us towards a carbon-neutral europe.
emissions trading as a single tool is one of the most effective accelerators of emission reductions.
the price to be paid for pollution must be an incentive to move towards a zero-emission production system, and it is therefore good that there are finally a set of milestones and a timetable for the abolition of free distribution.
free rations are against the whole idea of emissions trading.
the new carbon tariff mechanism will replace them by preventing unfair competition from products produced outside the eu with lower climate standards.
the proposal to extend emissions trading to road transport and housing is challenging.
these emissions reductions are needed in this sector, but they must be implemented in a way that is socially just and does not make those who already have a tight budget pay for them.
i therefore believe that the burden-sharing sector is the right way to deal with these emissions, because it would give member states the best means to deal with them.
this is best achieved by creating a stable and predictable investment environment, which ensures through regulation that the most profitable investment is always zero-emission.
the ever-changing regulatory environment is generating wasted investment and uncertainty that we cannot afford.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat climate change.
mr president, it is estimated that the eu produces 10% of the emissions.
the big empty bubble in these climate values is that this so-called green transition is paying for itself.
i understand the need for moderation and rationality in climate matters, but we're escaping into a world of fantasy.
– mr president, we need to turn the way we use land into a climate solution and reverse the negative impact of our land use for climate.
that is the way towards carbon neutrality and also beyond the carbon negativity.
forests, soil, health and biodiversity must be protected to tackle that being climate and biodiversity crisis.
furthermore, forest biodiversity is declining.
an ambitious revision of the lulucf regulation is needed, therefore, to reverse the situation and to ensure a sustainable, predictable and long-term contribution of natural carbon sinks to the eu climate neutrality objective and to contribute to the eu’s biodiversity objectives.
we must accelerate markets for sustainable land use measures.
strong and systemic measures to reduce carbon emissions caused by land use and to increase carbon sinks must be taken up to a whole new level.
we need to promote carbon farming, restore wetlands and bogs, implement afforestation, halt deforestation and have better land use planning, reduce agricultural emissions, improve sustainability of forest use and keep harvesting levels, methods and rotation lengths within the limits of biodiversity and climate.
public and private funding must be mobilised to support ecosystem based regenerative approaches in forests and agricultural lands that will also support individual farmers and forest managers.
they should benefit from incentives to store more carbon on their land and forests while ensuring the protection of biodiversity and other societal benefits and also soil quality.
the land use sector needs a sustainable transition, just like, for example, the automotive industry.
reducing emissions is not against them, it is for them.
as rapporteur, i have worked hard to find cross-party compromises in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) committee that could be acceptable for this parliament.
the energy report represents a good compromise of the main views, and i thank all the shadows for their very cooperative work on the file.
the final envi report is an improvement for climate action from the initial proposal by the european commission, while still maintaining its main focus.
we must ensure that climate smart policy is also biodiversity smart.
many in this parliament claim that lulucf is only about carbon accounting, but this is a false claim.
sinks have also a lot to do with biodiversity.
both natural sinks and biodiversity happen in the same land and we should pursue our policies at the same time.
it is also more cost efficient to look for double benefits for climate and nature together.
so the envi report tasks the commission with setting up minimum criteria for the inclusion of biodiversity monitoring in land monitoring systems via delegated acts.
but it is also further amplified by additional measures and initiatives at union and member state level to support carbon farming, delivering at least 50 million additional tonnes co2 equivalent of net removals by 2030 at union level.
so this is a way of making sure that also carbon farming is promoted as fast as possible and it is seen as a possibility to increase sinks also in the short term.
so i look forward to strong support to negotiate on this basis with the council for a strong action on climate change in land use.
from a climate standpoint, it seems that we as a species lack the instinct to protect ourselves.
the freight transport sector accounts for 60% of all eu greenhouse gas emissions.
with the whole climate package as an inadequate starting point, a minus fifty percent reduction in emissions by 2030 is not in line with scientific advice.
for all the elements of the climate package under discussion today, it is the duty of this parliament to set targets at an adequate and safe level.
the longer we delay the necessary and sufficient climate decisions, the more expensive, the more difficult and the more brutal the change will be for everyone.
mr president, commissioner, the council adopted the 2021 climate law, which sets the contribution of emissions at a maximum of 225 million tonnes of co2 equivalent by 2030. however, the commission is proposing a much more ambitious target of 310 million tonnes of co2 equivalent, and the climate radicals are proposing even more extreme figures.
we know that we are facing an energy crisis, and that will exacerbate the food crisis and many other crises.
when energy is expensive, everything else is expensive, especially in finland, where we no longer get wood from russia, but where we should now cut down our own trees.
the world is not running out of energy, but it's running out of reason.
why make the energy crisis worse and even fuel it when we should be doing everything we can to alleviate it or even prevent it?
europe needs energy.
mr. president, this toxic green climate madness has been raised to divine proportions.
the carbon dioxide polarity predicts the end of the world.
the manifestations of the disease are that forest fires and floods that have always been are also caused by climate change.
the electric car produces emissions over its lifetime at least equal to those of a car with a combustion engine.
there has been debate today about whether our land use today is sustainable and i think the science-based answer is: not yet.
we still have biodiversity loss, we still have lots of things.
but i also want to make it clear that this regulation, the lulucf regulation, to increase carbon sinks is also an opportunity for our farmers and foresters.
so we can increase carbon sinks by way of introducing new farming methods, focusing on regenerative farming, less need of fertilisers, more better focus on soil quality, and this will be to the benefit of the productivity of european agriculture.
we just need to create funding mechanisms for this and that is why we need to have an ambitious goal, which the envi committee proposes, of a separate carbon farming additional target of 50 million tonnes by 2030. also in forestry i support the objective of incentivising a circular, sustainably sourced bio-economy and the use of long-lived wood products over shorter usages, but at the same time, we have to make sure that there is integrity in how we make rules on this.
therefore, the envi committee delayed the possibility for the commission to introduce carbon storage products until after the adoption of carbon removal certification, subject to full legislative review and under strict sustainability criteria.
so we can actually promote sustainable bio-economy products that will both increase carbon storage, but make sure that they are within the boundaries of adding integrity to how forests are managed.
the committee suggests that where a member state decides to authorise the use of carbon credits from the lulucf sector for offsetting by public or private entities, these amounts should be deduced from the amount of net removals taken into account for the purpose of compliance with the lulucf target of that member state.
madam president, this process was far from the respect this house deserves and far from what the climate needs.
the climate politics of this house is completely contradictory.
on one hand, we passed a climate law where we state all targets must be based on science and aligned with the paris agreement, and yet today we are voting on a proposal which is not according to science.
the climate crisis is not something far in the future.
mr president, biodiversity, of course, has an absolute value in itself, but it’s also a crucial part in our fight against climate change.
the stronger the biodiversity is, the better is our planet’s resilience ahead of the inevitable warming we are heading to.
because as we have failed completely in our 2020 targets, so have all the countries i know, including my own, has failed their biodiversity targets for 2020. so, we don’t have a very strong reference there to give us guidane.
mr president, the recipe for combating climate change is ultimately quite simple: emissions must be brought down, sinks and biodiversity up and cash flows to support this ecological reconstruction.
the message from financial institutions and investors is consistent: we need a way to define which investments are truly green and which are contributing to climate change solutions.
it is an undeniable fact that natural gas is a fossil fuel and a major climate warmer, but the commission still wants to define it as green or sustainable.
the commission has put together a proposal for a regulation on both natural gas and nuclear energy.
nuclear power is low-emission, although not entirely free of environmental problems, but under certain conditions it can be part of a sustainable path towards a climate-resilient europe.
and so it becomes a greenhouse washer, even though one of its purposes was specifically to prevent greenhouse washing.
if this act is upheld, the commission will have to give up its talk of the eu being the leader in global climate action.
mr president, the ultimate objective of the state is to provide people with security, which includes energy supply.
the fact is that nuclear power is the safest and cheapest way to produce energy in this world situation.
the acceptance of nuclear power as a sustainable form of energy is of particular importance for finland.
nuclear power would be a safer energy source, and considering that, for example, in may, germany's trade balance was in deficit of about eur 1 billion.
we are facing a real energy crisis, and a food crisis, and many other crises, and we cannot afford to play games with this.
mr president, nuclear power is a zero-emission form of energy.
however, it is a matter of concern that only two countries have solved the problem of nuclear waste disposal: finland and sweden.
despite the risks, nuclear power is, as the commission says, an important alternative in the energy transition and deserves positive taxonomic treatment.
if fossil gas is now given a taxonomic status, it is particularly important that in the future all raw materials considered to be renewable should be given at least the same treatment.
mr president, the climate has changed, nobody is getting anywhere with it, but it has become a climate hysteria, the biggest bluff in world history, when the natural cycle is deliberately searched for the ingredients of the end of the world.
above all life is this sword of damocles, the invented sword of climate change.
pollution must be reduced - yes, of course - and humans can do something about it, but the earth is spinning along its own course with its future ice ages and hot seasons, and the eu can do nothing about it.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
– mr president, it’s very obvious that the cheapest and cleanest energy is the one you do not consume.
all the policymakers, if they are serious about ending energy dependence and about lowering the bills for citizens and businesses in europe, should first and foremost focus on maximising energy efficiency and savings and helping citizens and businesses to cut their energy consumption.
every additional base percent of improved energy efficiency allows us to cut gas imports by 2.4% and oil imports by 3.5%.
against the backdrop of the current energy crisis and the climate emergency, energy and increased energy efficiency are key to keeping everyone on board.
unfortunately, finnish state-owned companies have been removed from their traditional role of securing our national energy supply as a money machine for investors and corporate management.
slovakia is keen to offer its citizens cheap energy.
stable and affordable energy is the key to prosperity and success.
the cheap energy has made possible the birth of western civilization.
europe was able to provide its citizens and businesses with a predictable and stable environment.
and at the same time, we have a climate crisis.
global warming continues to be an existential threat to humanity, one that we cannot fail to address.
climate action is blamed for the sharp rise in energy prices.
that is not entirely true, but the outrageous prices are the result of russia's war efforts, where energy has been harnessed as one form of warfare.
as we disconnect from russian fossil energy, we must understand that we must disconnect from fossil energy.
anti-war action cannot and must not be in conflict with climate action.
only by investing in renewable energy will we build a secure, predictable and self-sufficient energy future, where we are not dependent on any fossil energy supplier, and especially not on an authoritarian one.
there is a strong synergy between the actions required by war and climate solutions, if you will.
now, with prices at this high, we need to support households to survive, but at the same time we need to keep the big picture in mind: we need systemic change to bring our societies, our economic structures and our way of life up to a climate-resilient level, and this must be done in a socially just way.
mr marin, the vision of strategic autonomy that you have often mentioned, when implemented in a climate-resilient way, has our full support.
– mr president, renewables are the future of european energy and also in solving the climate crisis they are necessary.
in the context of both the climate crisis today what we see is already happening and the russian war on ukraine, it is important that they are now raising the ambition for 2030. i think it is the least minimum to increase the target to 45% of land use of energy and this is what the parliament’s compromise has achieved.
that would not be good for our energy independence and therefore the renewables transition needs to be hastened.
mr president, the committee's report defines almost all primary wood as non-renewable energy.
the sustainability criteria are the bad part, and they must be avoided.
may i remind you that this high—energy—price crisis is due to the high prices of fossil fuels and also the manipulation of russia and putin.
but the time has come to act and rein in these abnormally high prices and high profits for some energy companies.
and we are also expecting binding measures to cut peak electricity demand and to ensure support to those struggling with their energy bills.
we can make this sort of crisis history by shifting to renewables and becoming energy independent and by investing in energy efficiency.
any measure we take now in the short term should be matched with long-term measures to increase our energy efficiency and help the shift to renewables.
so we have to look at the electricity market design as a tool to support this goal of becoming more energy independent, and that means that we are also more secure, more economically sound and acting on the climate.
– madam president, biodiversity loss is an existential threat, and we must also address this challenge.
this is not only important to the upcoming cop 15 on biodiversity, but also in the context of cop 19 on the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) in panama.
this is important when we are addressing also climate effects to our planet, that biodiversity and species protection goes hand in hand with that as well.
russia started building an energy crisis before it invaded ukraine.
energy is one of putin's weapons in this war, and it's now directed at all of us.
there are many good practices, but i still insist on the importance of energy saving.
unity in sanctions against russia and unity in solutions to the energy crisis.
at the same time, we know that the consequences of the war - high inflation, rising energy prices and security of supply risks - are also being felt in europe.
mr president, the eu is doing more than ever for the climate, but just because we are doing more than we used to does not mean we are doing enough.
climate decisions should always be based on scientific advice on the actions and timelines to be taken.
the latest un emissions report says that we are moving towards 2.7 degrees of warming with the current policies.
this is the reality in which we will leave for the next climate summit.
the next climate summit must be able to decide on international climate finance and the rich countries must be prepared to increase their funding, but the green transition will not be done with taxpayers' money alone, but all the cash flows must be made available to support the green transition.
mr president, every inhabited region of the planet is currently experiencing the impacts of climate change.
we are already living in an era of adverse climate effects.
even if last year’s glasgow cop cut new climate pledges and increased ambition, that was clearly not enough.
we are actually using our remaining carbon budget within this decade.
even if in egypt the focus has been for many in climate financing, loss and damage adaptation – those are important targets – the eu has to, in addition to delivering the goals, also take on board also the message from glasgow that member countries will increase their ambition.
but we must stand and face in solidarity aggression of russia, both in supporting ukraine, but also in the effect it has on our economies and our energy security.
the greens welcome the possibilities for joint gas purchases proposed by the commission, but this is only a first necessary step needed to bring the energy prices down.
we can still do more to reduce gas demand and increase energy savings this winter.
this is the most meaningful action we can do to avoid the energy crisis.
we can do more to reduce this demand, and we also need to invest massively in renewables and energy efficiency.
russian aggression and sabotage is not causing disruption only on the energy markets and economy, but also tries to create disorder and instability in our democracies.
we have seen within europe politics of threatening human rights, women’s rights and environmental and climate action that would actually weaken our resolve in solving the energy crisis.
immigration policy will change and the ministry of the environment will be abolished.
mr president, we need to provide energy security to our citizens this winter.
even more importantly, we need to hasten the green deal to deliver an energy transformation to solve both the energy—independence needs for europe and the climate crisis.
however, this cannot be done at a cost to our environment and biodiversity.
the green deal is not just about climate and energy security, but is also about environmental sustainability.
the climate and biodiversity crises need to be tackled hand-in-hand in order for us to deliver long-term results.
so we have to introduce the aspects that deserve longer-term application and also considerations for nature within the negotiations of the renewable energy directive.
the russian aggression in ukraine requires a swift response from the whole union and we really need a whole new kind of energy self-sufficiency.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy market is not affected by the russian crisis.
investments in renewable and zero-emission energy sources must now be prioritised.
the union as a whole and each member state must simplify their permitting procedures in order to really speed up the transition to zero-emission energy sources.
mr president, biodiversity is not only a value in itself but also a necessary element for us to survive as climate change progresses.
the stronger the biodiversity, the better the ability of our planet to adapt to the inevitable warming ahead.
it is absolutely essential that we achieve a binding international agreement to stop the loss of biodiversity in the spirit of the paris agreement.
the world must finally wake up to the fact that deforestation is the same crisis and emergency that global warming is to us.
the idea of a nuclear development zone is a good one and certainly a viable one, both in terms of permitting processes and also in terms of bringing renewable energy into the grid.
there are many types of environmental permits that are needed, and building permits are needed.
why can't emissions trading be frozen?
the same cannot be said for environmental controls.