the digital world - we've talked about it - the environment, security issues... you will have the renew group working with you in the framework of this institution, thanks of course to the trust you will also be able to place in the political groups and the work you will be able to do with them.
thanks to europe, we are the green continent and will be carbon neutral by 2050. the european green deal will also combine ecology and employment.
our group will be there, we will be with you to impose our rules and values on the digital giants through the dma and the dsa, we will be with you to go even further for the planet and introduce a carbon tax at the borders of europe.
you see, it is not enough to include the environment in the charter of fundamental rights, when you are convicted for climate action in france or when you bury the proposals of the citizens' convention for the climate.
ladies and gentlemen, do not be fooled: you are looking at dr emmanuel, who has made a lot of promises today, i must admit, but you also have a mr macron, who is in fact the one who is breaking our social rights, repressing the demonstrations and has nothing to do with the climate emergency.
it has the means and the duty to enforce the principle of non-regression in social and ecological terms so that a european standard will never again diminish our rights or slow down the fight against climate change.
you talk about the environment and strategic autonomy, but france is now importing gas and coal because you closed fessenheim and mined our industry.
you introduced yourself this morning as the climate and biodiversity candidate.
you are in fact the president condemned by the french and european courts for climate and environmental inaction.
it has been said today, but to label gas and nuclear as sustainable is simply not possible.
the world economy is changing, and the digital sector will be pivotal in europe’s geopolitical standing and will be a key driver of economic growth, and also in helping us to achieve our climate change goals in a manner that ensures prosperity.
it is due, on the one hand, to the voracity of energy companies like total, which are racking up historic profits by turning consumers into cash cows, and on the other hand, to the chaos in global supply chains, which the pandemic has totally destabilized.
as my colleague papadimoulis' report points out, the very role of the ecb in the face of the social and ecological emergency must be questioned.
president, madam president, commissioner, while prices in the supermarket are skyrocketing and the energy bill is really going through the roof, the ecb continues to refuse to intervene.
today i am thinking in particular of the increase in energy prices, which undoubtedly leads to an increase in consumer prices.
the best way to fight inflation is to fight rising energy prices, because the real risk is delaying the energy transition.
a real signal of the courage needed to bring down inflation is to invest in renewable energy, so that our economy moves as quickly as possible away from raw energy sources, whose prices are already rising.
ladies and gentlemen, madam president, with the new taxonomy which aims to direct european financing towards activities which the commission considers to be ecologically sustainable, the european central bank is becoming the arm of punitive ecology.
it is urgent that the ecb ceases to be the footstool of goldman sachs and finally participates in the financing of the real economy, which, after the covid-19 and energy crisis, would give new prospects and revive the purchasing power of the people of europe.
it cannot - and i think we can all agree - fight against short-term energy price inflation, or deflation for that matter, with an interest rate.
it can do a great deal in the field of the ecological transition.
since we already have an ecological crisis to deal with, it would be a pity to have a financial crisis to deal with.
in general, the current economic environment should raise questions about the relevance of the ecb's rate choices, but also about its ability to find new tools to intervene in the event of new tensions.
the evolution of the components of inflation, in particular energy prices, will be decisive for the projections.
i have drawn from it some of the convictions which are at the heart of the report we are discussing today, which was largely supported by the committee on agriculture and enriched, of course, by contributions from the committee on the environment.
the vote will take place on tuesday, 15 february 2022.
the next item is the debate on the report by morten petersen, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on a european strategy for offshore renewable energy (2021/2012(ini)) (a9-0339/2021).
sea wind is the key to achieving our climate goals.
if we are to have any hope of meeting our climate goals, it will require more renewable energy - much more.
the un climate panel has told us that it is urgent, and that even if all countries' climate pledges were to be met, global emissions would still rise more than the paris agreement pledges.
the international energy agency has told us that there is a pathway to climate neutrality in 2050. but that road is narrow, and with each passing day of inaction, it becomes more difficult and the path becomes narrower.
we simply have to raise our climate ambitions.
renewable energy and energy efficiency are crucial in the green transition.
we are seeing in these years islands of energy being brought from desks and science fiction plans into real life and into action.
we like to say in my country, denmark - i like to boast of being the world's first energy island - now they are making us rank-champions in belgium.
the maritime plans, the so-called msps, must be coordinated with the member states' national energy and climate plans, so that the right hand knows what the left hand is doing and to avoid delays in all permitting matters.
we are moving ever closer to 2050, and decarbonising our energy system becomes more important with every passing moment.
we have set out a clear vision of how we believe we should get there, and offshore renewable energy is a big part of that vision.
choosing the right path means hearing all viewpoints, learning from different perspectives, and that’s why i am so pleased to be here discussing the own-initiative report on the european offshore energy strategy.
to kick off this session, i’d like to frame our discussion today by speaking about the commission’s thinking behind this important part of energy in europe.
offshore wind is not at the beginning of its journey here, it’s a major technology: one with immense potential, potential to help us meet our 2030 and 2050 targets, potential to foster competitive energy prices and potential to boost european industry.
despite publishing a dedicated strategy on offshore energy with some of the most ambitious targets globally, the eu still needs to overcome a number of challenges facing us.
having read morten petersen’s report carefully, i was pleased to see that the commission and parliament identify the same opportunities and challenges for the offshore energy sector in the eu.
first, an impact assessment on the economic and socio-economic impacts of offshore energy.
this is a very useful comment which we will explore, i think, in the horizon europe programme, including through coal specifically tailored to the development of offshore energy.
second, how can renewable sources pave the way for renewable hydrogen?
as you know, the decarbonised gas market package highlights renewable sources, including offshore, as a priority to ramp up renewable hydrogen production.
it’s been just over a year since we adopted the offshore energy strategy, and even in that short time we have achieved quite a lot in each of the key areas.
the agreement contains a provision inviting member states to come forward with clear commitments on the offshore renewable energy to be deployed within each sea basin by 2050. those commitments will include immediate steps in 2030 and 2040 and will be in line with the national energy and climate plans and the potential of each sea basin.
the first step towards achieving that is correctly transposing the renewable energy directive, because unfortunately, most member states have not fully transposed the directive, even though the deadline was last july.
and last, on cooperation and consensus: in october we organised a conference for government ministries and public authorities to look more closely at the state of affairs for the offshore energy sector.
from investments to public acceptance and from permitting to pre-planning, many of the most significant issues for large-scale deployment were dealt with at the same time, and i know that the participation of morten petersen and the chair of the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) mr buşoi was highly appreciated.
i have always compared coastal and island territories to ships which must seek energy independence with what nature has to offer.
i am therefore in favour of all forms of energy at sea: those which use wind energy, as is the case here, but also those which use the inexhaustible energy of the sea, its heat and its currents, especially for the outermost regions of the union, in an approach of land-sea energy mix.
however, i have two essential conditions for their development: firstly, the imperative need to consider their deployment in the context of the planning of the maritime space based on ecosystems and uses; secondly, the imperative need to go beyond the simple reduction of environmental and social impact, by seeking co-benefits for ecosystems as well as for trades.
finally, i would like to stress the rarity of our debates on the sea, which is in danger, even though it is our future - we see it here with energy.
madam president, madam commissioner, hydroelectric, wind, tidal and osmotic plants: the potential of energy at sea is immense and manifold.
it is a fact: if the european union is to achieve its climate objectives, it must deploy renewable energy on a massive scale, especially at sea.
that is why i welcome the report we are adopting here this week, which proposes a coordinated acceleration of the deployment of renewable energy at sea.
waiting 15 years to build a wind turbine is not sustainable.
the climate crisis is not waiting.
finally, the development of these renewable energies at sea will play a full part in our european strategic energy autonomy, because all the energy we produce on our coasts will be as much energy as we do not have to import from elsewhere.
madam president, madam commissioner, this afternoon, as i was coming, i saw on twitter that i had been called by someone who said to me: 'but you are going to discuss renewable marine energy when we have been waiting for ten years for the first wind turbine to be able to go out to sea in france?
that is true, whereas in denmark, in the case of rapporteur morten petersen, there have probably been some twenty years of rotating and supplying energy.
however, we must also be aware that we owe it to the climate and to humanity to be able to go and look for these renewable energy sources.
we have a great potential here on our coasts, one of the world's first potentials for renewable marine energy.
we will build on the green deal for europe to support healthy food, air quality and the fight against environmental carcinogens, particularly at work.
you mentioned: economic recovery after covid-19, combating inequality through education, health and employment, promoting sustainable investment, combating climate change, democracy, social and environmental rights, as well as peace and security.
respect the social and environmental rights of people?
while covid-19 has reshaped the immediate needs, the fundamental challenges facing our partner countries remain unchanged: growing instability, educational inequalities, investment and trade difficulties, lack of jobs, difficulties in agricultural production, the effects of climate change, weak governance systems.
our young people share a search for meaning, a need for freedom, mobility, hope and fair redistribution, a concern about climate change, but also a common history and its share of gaping wounds.
our youth deserve systemic cooperation on political reforms, leading to democratic and inclusive governance, a guarantee of sustainable stability.
the requirement for a win-win partnership between europeans and africans must mean, among other things, the achievement of our sustainability goals.
we europeans must promote and encourage investment in africa, investment which respects social and environmental requirements: this will be one of the fundamental issues of this summit.
we need additional binding agreements, for example on mutual support in the fight against climate change and on ensuring food security.
we also need to support the energy transition and sustainable development.
let us not talk about sustainable development through the prism of the european, who has problems that can be allowed to be considered in their temporal dimension of the medium term, because they are fighting a hard battle every day to survive and need to consume more energy.
they need more energy from non-carbon sources, no doubt, but they need a lot more energy and we have to help them with that.
so africa is going to be increasingly a global power, and only a closer partnership with africa will allow us to jointly influence the world and balance our development models, our high per capita income and high age with their low per capita income and low age, because both of these things create an imbalance that will not be sustainable.
in trade and investment with africa, europe continues to impose a framework based on principles that are supposed to ensure transparency in a competitive environment, converging towards free market conditions.
– mr president, recent international developments and challenges, such as the russian military threat against ukraine, the taliban takeover in afghanistan or the geopolitical consequences of the covid—19 pandemic, have once again reminded us that the european security environment is today more volatile and more complex than ever since the end of the cold war.
in summary, the geopolitical environment in the european union has darkened.
in the multilateral fora, the european union remains committed to lead the global response to the pandemic and the fight against climate change.
when i talk about global commons today it means talking about the pandemic and the climate.
climate: we were also the one who played a steering role launching the global methane pledge to reduce global emissions by at least 30% from 2020 levels by 2030. these are good examples of how the european union should operate internationally, taking initiatives and building coalitions to rally the world.
if we don’t build a coalition among others with respect to our efforts on climate change, our efforts will be completely useless because we are only 8% of the global emissions.
on climate, on corporate taxation, on the iran jcpoa, which is at a critical moment, where the balance can go one side or the other – to agreement or to the disagreement – the negotiations we are coordinating in our relationship with the us have been much better, and i hope that it will continue being better in order that this transatlantic relations will also influence positively the other transatlantic relations.
there are a lot of examples that show that we have to face hybrid conflicts, cyber—operations and intimidation, the state hijacking of planes and the blatant manipulation of migrants, like in belarus, energy blackmail by russia against moldova, the use of disinformation as propaganda and, in the military area, as has been said, we have seen in the sahel how the privatisation of armies is posing a new threat to our operations.
but we have to look at these challenges from an integrated perspective and consider the geopolitics of all the different elements, from climate to migration and digital standards and trade altogether.
i am pleased to note that the commission has not yet adopted the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
an influx of refugees, a high energy bill and a shortage of semiconductors that's crushing our economy.
the report also rightly identifies the security challenges posed by climate change.
we expected quantified targets and mandatory transparency on emissions from this sector.
behind this conflict is an energy issue.
i would also like to point out that the trio of presidencies, beyond the six-month period that france is currently holding, launched the implementation of the ninth cycle of the european union's youth strategy, which focuses on the objective of a more inclusive europe (objective 3) and the objective of a green and sustainable europe (objective 10).
we are cooperating with all member states to ensure the sustainability of the actions of this cycle.
the fight against climate change, inequality and discrimination is at the heart of their concerns.
these young people are training the young when they ask us to ban unpaid internships, because they all know that you cannot pay rent with experience and you cannot avoid being a financial burden on your family with a stimulating work environment.
mr president mr michal , madam commissioner mrs helena , mr minister mr clément beaune , ladies and gentlemen, we are very fortunate to live in europe, where the issue of climate change has been tackled hand in hand with the green deal for europe, which aims to make the european union the first carbon neutral continent by 2050. climate change policies are a potentially formidable vehicle for promoting gender equality.
these two challenges, climate change and gender equality, we need to tackle together, because they are intimately linked.
they are closely linked because women can be the first victims of climate change - as has already been said - whether in the context of natural disasters or the impact of climate change on agricultural production, food, energy management at the household level, or even the management of transport in some countries.
climate change threatens food security and agricultural activities, for example, which are mainly the responsibility of women in africa and asia.
so women are the victims of climate change, but they are also the vectors of climate change.
this is the great challenge we face, because gender equality is essential to combating climate change.
this long-term work towards our strategic autonomy must be completed and include a review of defence budgets, both at national and european level, as well as an energy autonomy strategy.
we all know that the only sustainable option is diplomatic and that all our efforts must be directed towards achieving a ceasefire and the withdrawal of russian troops.
we have traded our independence and freedom of action for the illusion of protection and have thus maintained an archaic climate of conflict.
climate, pensions, women's rights: all the protesters have already and now are facing the same fate.
indeed, the analysis of an isolated ngo can, in some cases, identify an ecosystem of entities whose influence is much wider.
a digital future can be a human-centred, sustainable and more prosperous future.
taking into account all current and future challenges, the fastest and most sustainable development in the area of innovative and smart digital transformation and ict connectivity should be pursued.
yes, there are revolving doors between politics and the business of energy, chinese or russian, and they must be fought.
the revolving doors between politics and business at gazprom or cfc china energy are very real, but they go far beyond energy and the financial sector remains untouched.
how could we tolerate, for example, that those who have decided german energy policy for years, from gerhard schroeder to marion scheller, become gazprom employees?
this is a precautionary measure as there are no threats to a safe and secure environment, but it visibly shows the eu’s commitment to the security and stability of bosnia herzegovina.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the increase in energy prices and market manipulation in the gas market by cristian-silviu buşoi, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o000007/2022 b9-0007/22) (2022/2552 ((rsp)).
– mr president, the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) has been following very closely the evolution of energy prices over the last months.
we have dedicated quite some time to receiving expertise and debating the causes and effects of the dramatic rise in energy prices, which is largely due to rising gas prices.
it is important to note, first, that energy prices did not rise overnight and there are many factors, some with more impact than others.
whether we are talking about a sudden increase in demand at international level, especially in asia, the decrease of internal gas production in the eu, the speculation on the eu ets that might climb the price of carbon allowances and – especially – the game that gazprom was playing to increase profits and the dependence of some eu countries on its resources, all these causes contribute to rising energy prices and, of course, now there is the unfortunate war started by russia.
if anything, the events of the past two weeks have only confirmed that we are right to have suspicions of deliberate interference in the eu energy markets.
we welcome the new communication adopted today by the commission on joint european action for more affordable, secure and sustainable energy and will give it all our attention in the coming days, together with all our work being carried out in the revision of the internal market for gas package.
at the time of negotiating the third energy package, the gas directive included the third-country clause in its article 11, the so-called gazprom clause, which established the mechanism to award third-country companies certification to become a transmission system operator in the union.
has the effectiveness of article 11 in reducing the risks to security of energy supply in the member states been assessed?
finally, what concrete actions will the commission undertake to inform eu citizens better about the causes behind the dramatic increase in energy prices they are suffering from?
as you know, we have opened an investigation into possible anti—competitive behaviour by gazprom on the gas market and whether it has given rise to higher energy prices and this has been supported by the ukrainian oil and gas company naftogaz, and we are still in the fact—finding phase, but we are treating this investigation as an absolute priority.
staying with the topic of high energy prices and security of supply.
today, we have adopted a communication on more affordable, secure and sustainable energy.
reducing our reliance on russian gas includes continuing the work we have done so far on increasing lng supplies, and in the medium term, more green energy, diversity of energy supplies and reducing energy demand.
on renewables, we must roll out renewable electricity in the sectors where gas dominates.
to support this colossal shift in our energy system, we also need the infrastructure in place to match this new volume of renewables.
energy communities will also play an increasing role, allowing citizens to come together to collectively produce and consume electricity, and the prerequisite for this energy system is the full implementation of the clean energy package and the electricity directive.
let me finish by saying that we have thoroughly analysed the reasons for the dramatic rise of energy prices at many points along the road.
today’s communication takes account of how the energy landscape has changed since our october toolbox, including the russian aggression in ukraine.
we need to decrease europe’s energy dependency on russia.
this is not a functioning economy, it's not an energy market.
tens of thousands of people are losing their jobs because no company can operate with the price of energy fluctuating at limits that no one can suspect or predict.
the director [inaudible] says that he does not regulate the energy market in the sense of seeing whether there is significant or dominant market position behaviour.
– mr president, let me start out by saying that, from renew europe’s side, we are quite happy with the commission’s proposal on joint european action for more affordable, secure and sustainable energy that was communicated this afternoon.
we welcome these short and medium-term plans with the aim to be independent from russian gas, and we want to work with the commission in order to see also a concrete 10-year plan for europe to achieve full security of energy supply, diversification and independence, by working both on demand and on supply.
ironically, today it is putin himself who is threatening to cut off the european gas pipeline to russia, nord stream 1. our imperative for lasting peace, for our independence, for the climate, for democracy, for social justice, is indeed to accelerate the energy transition and to put an end to our consumption of russian gas in particular and fossil energy in general.
firstly, through energy efficiency, which the commission has not yet mentioned in today's communication, but also by accelerating the development of renewable energy at an unprecedented rate.
money can and should be raised by taxing the oil and gas industry's excess profits, but also by redirecting public funds currently invested in fossil fuels towards renewable energy.
tomorrow, i ask you to vote for the motion of objection to the fifth pci list, which still contains many gas projects, to be 100% focused on renewable energy and energy efficiency.
we need all this money, on the contrary, for renewable electricity projects.
so, on behalf of the 107 members who have signed this motion for a resolution, i ask the commission to present us with a new list of 100 per cent energy efficiency and 100 per cent renewable energy as soon as possible.
let us build together a future that respects the climate and guarantees a world of peace.
unfortunately, this crisis confirms what we have been denouncing for several years: the european union has never been energy-independent.
for years, technocrats in brussels have been shutting down our energy industries, leaving thousands of europeans unemployed.
today europe is on the verge of collapse, ready to import american shale gas, whose environmental impact is well known.
its good performance in terms of co2 emissions makes nuclear the most decarbonised energy in the world.
this is economic and energy suicide.
the urgent need is to contain prices and, to do so, to return to the market logic which the commission has been trying to impose on the energy sector for years.
and from this point of view, it is dramatic that the commission has not included among the proposals of the international energy agency the proposal to extend the existing nuclear programme.
in the middle of winter, the country that heats 45% of european homes started a war in europe, and amid the pandemic and the economic crisis, energy prices exploded.
russia has always been a difficult partner for the eu, but even so, very few of us would have imagined that european peace and energy security would be threatened at this level.
here are some immediate steps we can take:- to increase gas production in eu countries: romania, the netherlands, cyprus, as well as norway; - use liquefied natural gas (lng); - to reopen coal mines (temporarily); - to increase nuclear power production; - to complete the energy interconnection networks; - amend the national recovery and resilience plans (nrpps) and invest more in the energy sector.
even as we debate in the european parliament the measures adopted by the commission on common european action for more accessible, safer and more sustainable energy, fuel prices at the pump have reached record levels.
so are energy and gas.
household consumption accounts for almost 30% of the eu's energy consumption.
these citizens have the greatest difficulty in switching to new renewable energy sources, and over 35% of them still rely on natural gas.
we need a european strategy, common stocks and purchases, a policy of energy independence and financial resources so that no european citizen is affected by this crisis and the next winter.
the increase in energy prices, which we have already suffered since the summer of 2021, has been exponentially accentuated by the invasion of ukraine by russia, and forecasts tell us that these prices will continue to rise until the next year 2023. understanding that these prices are the fundamental component of inflation and will therefore affect the purchasing power of eu consumers, smes and industry, especially the most vulnerable, we socialists have advocated solutions that address energy prices.
these solutions include, for example, decoupling the price of gas from electricity and, more fundamentally, accelerating the deployment of indigenous renewable energies.
eliminating our energy dependence on russia, especially in times like these, is a necessity.
climate, agriculture, economics, constitutional: the great structural laws have been in the hands of men.
our generation is witnessing global crises of unprecedented scale that are placing all of humanity in front of new challenges: wars, health crises, climate crises.
the climate and environmental crisis disproportionately impacts women, who suffer the most from the consequences of climate change and natural disasters.
objectives that are essential for development aid, such as controlling demography or migration or protecting the environment, will be relegated to the background.
it’s not just covid-19 shock, as written in the commission paper on the annual sustainable growth survey 2022. in such a crisis situation, people and only people can be at the forefront as the saviour and engine of development.
the commission paper refers to the four mutually reinforcing dimensions of competitive sustainability, but their mutual influence is non-linear, and we cannot give equal weight to these four aspects.
we must choose those that are a priority and subordinate the rest of them, and just fairness must be the condition under which the other three dimensions – that is environmental sustainability, productivity and macroeconomic stability – are to be examined.
not only the defence capacity, energy dependency or the economic robustness is at stake but also the well—being of people, including the ukrainian refugees who are welcome in europe.
with skyrocketing prices of energy and with deep-diving purchasing power, i fear the most vulnerable will bear the burden.
the european semester process must be giving equal importance to economic, social and environmental policies.
we must ensure a sustainable future for people in europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to talk to you about concrete realities, the litre of petrol that is rising to more than 2 euros without the state intervening, the overall energy bill that could increase by 400 euros this year, the hospital beds that have closed in the midst of the covid crisis, the unemployment benefits and pensions that are decreasing.
the only thing we have to worry about today, ladies and gentlemen, is how to get out of this situation once and for all rather than arrange for their return by 2023. faced with ecological and social emergencies, deficits and debt can no longer be the alpha and omega of european economic policies.
and if you want economic convergence, i have a few ideas: the well-being of people, reducing inequalities, protecting the environment... i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to step out of your bubble and look at this reality and finally respond to it.
madam president, commissioners, madam minister, for the last two and a half years, we, the european parliament, have been calling for the reform of the european semester process so that it can be an instrument for coordinating our policies in the service of social progress and the environmental and digital transitions.
the war in ukraine now: moving faster and further to build our european sovereignty, including energy.
this must mean massive investment in the transition to a climate-neutral and energy-independent economy.
the war in ukraine will cause inflation to rise further and energy prices to rise further.
we must start now with investments in european gas, modern coal-fired power stations and nuclear energy, because the people at home are paying the price and their understanding is not infinite.
for sustainable development and social cohesion and less poverty and inequality and more employment, we need more cooperation.
the next generation is the ones who are going to pay off our corona debt, and at the same time they're going to have to pay for climate change, for the necessary green transition, for our security, and also for growing older generations.
all this in a disastrous climate context, as evidenced by the reading of the latest ipcc report.
on the other hand, in a context of reviewing the rules of economic governance, it is essential - i would even say here in this house - to fully integrate the climate emergency we are facing.
now the intervention is intended to change its nature including other subjects that change its objectives and, in addition, with an ideological language such as gender equality, the green, fluid and inclusive transition, climate neutrality, sustainability.
a way to put our economy at the service of the united nations sustainable development goals to force social change.
there is energy independence, investment in clean energy, renewable energy, not doing business with just anyone, or funding defence.
in the face of these tragic events, in the face of climate change, in the face of the probable failure of the russian state, it would be good to stop rediscovering the tepid waters in every crisis and to equip ourselves, to anticipate, as the rapporteur said, with a change in the rules, with a massive plan of investment in sobriety and renewables, with more social justice too, which means more fiscal justice.
we need to stop energy imports from russia and broaden sanctions.
estonia's natural environment in today's world is our membership of the european union and nato.
the single foreign and defence policy, energy independence, are priorities.
yes, this decision will cost our nations, but our states have the means to cope, to help households, to bring in the energy giants.
it is important to emphasize the industrial choice on which we depend, which is supposedly ecological, which is imposed on us, but which is far from being unanimous among the experts, because electric batteries are polluting, whatever they say.
the european commissioner may talk about the circular economy, recycling and environmental constraints, but this sector raises many questions.
battery production is so energy intensive that to call it a green transition is a vast deception.
to produce batteries, we need phenomenal amounts of energy.
in the midst of the energy crisis, it's a nightmare.
it is easy to see that we are dealing with products that are highly dangerous to our health and the environment.
a chapter in this report on cobalt mining and its social and environmental issues raises a number of questions.
faced with these major challenges, why not invest in biofuels and hydrogen, which could provide us with energy independence at a lower social and environmental cost?
madam president, the purpose of this regulation is to reduce the impact on the environment and human health of the use of batteries.
this will save money for the consumer, since he can reuse these batteries and preserve the appliances, and reduce waste by creating standards to facilitate recycling.
finally, while we share the ambitious objectives of this text for the development of sustainable batteries and the reuse of the raw materials that make them up, we are questioning the realism of massive and rapid electrification.
and the consequences of the russian-ukrainian crisis will also weigh on energy supplies.
finally, the 8th environment action programme which i am sure we will adopt today will be able to enter into force, albeit with a delay of one and a half years due to the health crisis, but it is nevertheless absolutely urgent to have key indicators to assess our progress in implementing the green deal.
with this environment action programme, we now have a compass to 2030 so that our results match our objectives.
it will enable the european union to create the conditions for sustainable growth within planetary boundaries so that the ecological transition creates new jobs and contributes to the well-being of our citizens.
our environmental and climate policies, without calling into question our main economic instruments.
madam president, parliament must once again take a decision on the environment action programme.
deadlines are shorter than ever and the agricultural sector is identified as one of the main culprits of environmental degradation.
you are demanding zero pollution, which is as absurd as it is utopian, and you want to see an end to fossil fuels.
the ambition is good, but the point is to define the ecological policy of the european union and not to recite the psalms of the greta thunberg sect.
no one here can deny the degradation of our environment, the loss of our biodiversity or the extinction of species.
to top it all off, instead of adding a paragraph on localism, the essential support for nuclear energy or the promotion of european products, you repeatedly mention discrimination and gender.
producing on the other side of the world, in countries that do not care about the environment, and bringing these goods home is the number one source of pollution.
where is the defense of industrial self-sufficiency reducing the carbon bill of transport?
a green europe is possible, but it requires common sense, dialogue and unabashed environmental protectionism.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, climate change is a reality that cannot be contested in any way and the sustainability of economic sectors can be affected in the medium and long term.
in this context, we all need to become actors involved in combating these climate changes that affect the quality of our daily lives.
the european objectives set so far are ambitious, whether it is the conservation of biodiversity, the protection of forests or the sustainable use of land.
european leaders have already voiced their support for a responsible and forward-looking energy policy, which is crucial not only for our economy but also for our environment and our security.
reducing dependence on russian gas can only be done by developing renewable sources.
the european union, now more than ever, needs to take immediate and concrete action to mitigate the side effects of both climate change and war, because conflict, beyond humanitarian issues, creates market disruption, from energy, to shipping, but above all to agriculture, and i stress again, above all to agriculture.
i would point out that the european agricultural sector is already facing major challenges from the pandemic, the increase in fertiliser and energy prices, and its capacity and resilience are seriously affected, endangering food security.
i call on the european commission, in this extremely complicated context, to adapt the current climate objectives so that food security, not just at the level of the european union, but at the global level, is guaranteed for the future.
we must stop thinking in boxes if we are to deal with the climate crisis, the destruction of nature, the soil erosion, the misuse of drinking water, the rampant pollution, and so on.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one.
coastal wind turbines create artificial reefs with lots of life and fish and shellfish and food for birds and marine mammals in our devastated marine environment.
and we need it if we are to realise the environmental action programme and the other parts of the green transition.
there's no time to waste!
we have said this before and we will say it again: the positive elements of this programme are in conflict with the policies of the european union, which this proposal does not reject, of a neoliberal and mercantilist nature, of the plundering of resources and exploitation of nature for profit, of the concentration of activity in large economic groups and of solutions to the environmental problems which condition the public nature of policies and services, limiting this dimension to the assumption of costs without safeguarding the common good.
what about the perverse and ineffective market approaches that enshrine the right to pollute, such as emissions trading; or the so-called just and green transitions, under the pretext of which, as in my country, we rush to close important strategic industrial units, generating unemployment, replacing national production with imports and imposing greater external dependence and without evidence of real environmental gains; or policies that liberalize the productive sectors, which counter necessary responses that allow short-circuits of trade, valuing production and national sovereignty in various fields; or mobility policies, which insist on the promotion of individual transport, when what is needed is the promotion of mass transport on a public transport service and its intermodality and progressive free of charge; or the deregulation and liberalization of trade policies with harmful environmental and social impacts; or the dramatic environmental impacts of war, economic policy and military armament, or the dramatic human and political consequences of war, or of a military industry with its own weapons?
a change in environmental policy is needed, a policy aimed at preserving the balance of nature and its ecological systems and ensuring the democratization of access to and use of nature, combating the commodification of the environment and its ideological exploitation.
in fact, colleagues, climate change and the collapse of biodiversity are the ultimate threats that we must absolutely face.
the resolution also calls for the adoption of a new directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
for three years we have been waiting for the commission to deliver on the promise of its president and to come forward with a strategy - really a strategy - for sustainable textiles.
the commission's efforts to achieve the sustainability objectives set out in the green deal must be made concrete.
we need a legally binding responsibility of european companies to prevent environmental crime in production.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the big change in sustainability is affecting all sectors of production, as well as the way we live, move and work.
and that is why the manufacturing sector must also be supported, the textile industry must be supported in this transformation, and i say intentionally supported, because it is a matter of putting together public strategies and also of having the appropriate private initiative, in short, of working together to correct wrong behaviour and choices that are no longer sustainable and, at the same time, to take advantage of all the opportunities that this sector can offer.
so we know the sustainability issues related to the materials that are used and the harmful substances, it was said, and quoted by colleagues earlier, that are used in production processes, and then they cover the whole part related to disposal and recycling under the banner of the circular economy.
madam president, commissioner, ensuring socially fair and ecologically responsible supply chains cannot be an exception, and many voluntary initiatives have been pioneering: fairtrade standards, the sustainability pact, oecd guidelines, un guiding principles.
the commission has also proposed that the european union should be given the opportunity to present a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
it has a duty to set high environmental and social standards to shape the globalisation of tomorrow.
we must ensure that all businesses - large, medium and small - fulfil their part of the contract in the service of respect for fundamental rights, social progress and environmental protection.
we need a strategy of our own to ensure that the clothes we import, that we wear, are not the result of forced labour, child labour or environmental destruction.
rosa lives with her family in the atacama desert, where 39,000 tonnes of fast fashion waste from western countries pollute the air, soil and groundwater.
fast fashion is responsible for 10% of carbon emissions, 20% of water waste, 500,000 tonnes of microplastics in the ocean and more than 12 kilos of waste per european per year.
and it is precisely because the tragedies are so real that the european union, a major consumer of textiles, must finally put in place a sustainable strategy based on the duty of vigilance for the entire textile value chain.
a strategy for the planet, for social rights and for women's rights, so that men and, therefore, especially women who work for "fast fashion" or who pick up the waste of overconsumption are never ignored again.
the european power is demanding energy independence.
madam president, while the russian invasion is being accompanied by an escalation of armaments and sanctions by the european union, the united states and nato, the people are paying for it in lives, refugees, very expensive fuel, energy and food.
the bargaining and the opposition in the european council to the involvement of the united states in the energy embargo on russia, in joint orders, in the guarantee of the gold-plated sufficiency of the already very expensive imported natural gas, does not bode well for the people.
on the contrary, the eu's green transition strategy, the energy exchange, anticipates the anti-people terms of such agreements.
now let us intensify the struggle for the abolition of indirect taxes, green taxes on fuels and energy with a ceiling per kilowatt hour, for power and economy with a planned use of all forms and sources of energy for the needs of the people, so that energy ceases to be a commodity!
energy self-sufficiency: we must make progress towards the single energy market, with a gas price ceiling and single stock purchases, to allow europe to be free and not be forced into blackmail by either russia or other countries.
the commission is also proposing an agreement on the capping of energy prices for next winter.
but in our country, in france, an energy giant like total still does not understand that profits cannot be made at the expense of the climate and human rights.
we need a quick and definitive way out to stop funding the current war and to avoid future conflicts due to climate change.
but where are the major works for renovation and energy efficiency, or for interconnections and renewable energy?
where is the much needed aid for solar energy in algeria?
the project of european autonomy cannot be exempted from this project of food self-sufficiency and a production capacity which must incorporate new requirements, the ecological transition in the first place, but always keep this simple objective: to feed europe and to contribute to feeding the world.
europe must rise to the challenge, adapt its tools, keep its goal of ecological transition, but above all, always keep in mind that we must feed europe and contribute even more to feeding the world.
finally, we confirm our agenda to make our food system sustainable and resilient in the years to come.
security, stability and sustainability.
and we will strengthen our cooperation on transitioning to a sustainable food system across the globe.
the temporary crisis framework for state aid has been put in place to allow member states to grant direct aid to producers affected by the crisis and to energy—intensive undertakings such as fertiliser manufacturers.
let me say this clearly: fundamentally, the transition to sustainable agriculture as envisaged in the green deal and the farm to fork strategy is our only path to food security.
i have called on the member states to use their strategic plans to strengthen the sustainability and resilience of their agricultural sectors, reducing energy, pesticides and nutrient dependence and prioritising actions that increase yields.
on sustainability, the commission will support member states who, for example, use funding to boost sustainable biogas production, improve energy efficiency, foster bio—economy solutions, convert into organic farming and protein crop production, and develop their knowledge and innovation systems.
i know i can count on the loyal cooperation of this house to face this crisis together, to address the challenges we are confronted with, and to preserve our long—term strategy, making our food system more sustainable and resilient.
it is good that our farmers can grow on the ecological priority areas, but it is a drop in the bucket.
we cannot simply resign ourselves to putin's brutality derailing the second un sustainable development goal: the eradication of hunger.
the first thing we have to do is not look at ecological priorities, but we have to think about the fact that we will no longer allow the use of biofuels.
the climate crisis and the biodiversity crisis are not going to stop.
i would therefore urge all those who are now questioning all the green measures here to: we need sustainable agriculture!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must recover our food sovereignty and energy independence so that we can be free from the blackmail of putin's russia and all the other hostile countries.
the climate and biodiversity crises will not wait for russia to lay down its arms.
you're not helping food production by making it less sustainable.
feeding mega-stacks is at the expense of people, animals, climate, nature and the environment.
europe should now focus on the reduction of the livestock industry and on sustainable food production directly for people.
european farmers face two challenges: to feed thousands of people while accelerating the fight against climate change and the collapse of biodiversity.
in europe, with dignity and restraint, let us at least draw lessons from this war: let us put food sovereignty and our environmental ambitions on the same level.
let us be determined to finally rebuild a strong, sovereign and sustainable agricultural europe.
this war is a revelation of our dependence on energy.
i must say that i was surprised by your invitation to the states, and i quote you, to 'regulate prices' and even 'tax energy companies that have made exceptional profits'.
has the european commission finally realised the absurdity of its energy market, which leads only to one thing: the explosion of prices for people and profits for multinationals?
in the annexes, commissioner, you state that 'the competitiveness of the markets and, i quote, the general objectives of the european union's energy policy must not be called into question'.
in fact, only italy has so far introduced a 10% tax on the big energy companies which have increased their profits.
in europe, the commission is talking about 200 billion in surplus profits for the energy companies.
madam president, minister, commissioner, we are here today to talk about repowereu and energy prices.
there is a profound link between the two, which has already been mentioned by several of my colleagues, since, long before the war in ukraine, we were already seeing the surge in energy prices and, to be more precise, the price of fossil fuels.
we talk about increasing energy efficiency or saving energy.
it is therefore more expensive for people, and only italy has, at this stage, opted for taxing the profits of its energy companies.
the commission now wants to make the storage of gas, whose price is rising and will continue to rise, sustainable, and which we will have to sell and sell, thus locking ourselves up in these fossil fuels.
the real solution to rising energy prices is climate justice, climate action that starts with those who can afford it and supports those who can't.
you have spoken of this point of view, commissioner, of a massive deployment of renewable energy.
i fear that we have not yet grasped the need to base our energy mix of tomorrow on all controllable energy sources.
it sheds a very stark light on the russian funding of many of the so-called environmental organizations that have helped, in recent years, to destroy our energy mix.
this also means that we can rely on nuclear energy.
let us say it again: it is part of what allows us today to produce a decarbonised energy, which guarantees our independence and sovereignty.
the question of the energy charter treaty is of course directly linked to the debate we have just had.
in 1994 we tried to create a stable framework for energy supply within the european union with other countries, while trying to integrate russia as a major supplier of fossil energy sources.
the importance of this experiment has been clearly demonstrated in recent weeks: with the russian aggression against ukraine, the question of energy security in the european union has come to the fore.
firstly, the 1994 treaty puts a focus on fossil fuels - on energy, investment and technology in fossil fuels.
the focus is therefore perhaps understandable, although not yet fully comprehensible, because renewable energies were already available in 1994. so, the obvious focus on fossil fuels can no longer be future-proof.
we must also see the commitment to the paris agreement on climate change more clearly guaranteed in such a treaty.
and then you can say clearly, yes, there is no obligation for sustainability goals in investments.
there is also a bit of a question whether this right to regulate for more sustainability, for more environmental protection is being called into question.
if you look at these three systems, and you see that since 2017, there's been a little bit of reform discussion, but there's no final results on the table yet, there can be, from my personal point of view, only one consequence: that we leave the energy charter treaty and say we want to make energy supply sustainable and not be subject to the sword of damocles of a unanimous decision by the contracting parties of the energy charter treaty community.
it will not happen that all 54 members say: we want to promote only green energy and we want to throw away investment protection.
i think we don't need a lump on the leg for our energy policy anymore.
i had the opportunity, before the french presidency of the council of the european union, to engage and express myself, as minister for european affairs, with my colleagues responsible for the economy and energy in france.
you have made it very clear that the provisions of the energy charter on the protection of investments in the energy sector no longer correspond at all to the challenges of today.
the priorities of this modernisation process, which you have mentioned, are precisely those relating to adapting the charter to the issues of climate change, decarbonising the economy, promoting human rights and international labour standards; the issue of social and environmental responsibility is also essential.
as you know, the main response that the european union, collectively, has made to the current energy crisis is to invest in renewable energy, hence the union's position of wanting to remove the protection provided by this charter to investments in fossil fuels.
these negotiations covered a wide range of issues, such as the definition of investment or economic activity in the energy sector, or, more specifically, the social responsibility of enterprises.
i want to talk very briefly this morning about the definition of economic activity in the energy sector.
this is because each contracting party has different climate targets and energy loops - that's the difficulty of these talks.
i am very clear: if the outcome of the negotiations on the energy charter is not satisfactory for the european union, we will have to return to the other options we put on the table, including withdrawal from the energy charter treaty, which would have to be coordinated.
i would like to return to this point, mr president: i had the opportunity, not as president-in-office but as french minister, with my colleagues in charge of the economy and energy and with the support of a number of member states, to write an open letter to say precisely that if the objective of modernisation could not be achieved, we should consider quickly the end of this charter and the withdrawal of the countries from the european union.
we cannot of course ignore the dramatic situation we are in, including the energy situation - we have just discussed this in the house.
several contracting parties, including the european union, but also japan, the united kingdom and switzerland, have collectively and very strongly condemned russia's unjustified military aggression against ukraine, which is a contracting party to the energy charter.
– mr president, honourable members, with the modernisation of the energy charter treaty, the commission pursues two main objectives.
and second, to make sure that the energy charter treaty is in line with the eu’s sustainable development objectives, namely environmental protection, labour rights, climate change and energy transition.
the contracting parties of the energy charter treaty have agreed to organise an ad hoc charter conference in mid-june with a view to agreeing on a broad package of amendments to the energy charter treaty.
on your specific questions, the current energy crisis does not change the eu’s position in these negotiations.
the need to bring the energy charter treaty into line with our climate and sustainable development objectives is stronger than ever.
as always, we keep the european parliament informed beyond the regular feedback on the modernisation of the energy charter treaty in the inta and itre committees.
the commission has not proposed negotiating a truly lateral investment court system within the energy charter treaty context, since the eu aims to create a multilateral investment court at united nations level.
once a multilateral investment court is established, it will be also applied to the energy charter treaty by the eu, the member states and those third parties that agree to it.
if the eu cannot achieve its objectives, we will have to consider other options, including withdrawal from the energy charter treaty.
however, the eu and its member states will subsequently be bound by the sunset clause of the energy charter treaty.
it means remaining bound as regards existing investments for another 20 years by an unmodernised energy charter treaty.
– mr president, with energy prices that were already on the rise before the war and now with the illegal, tragic and insane invasion of ukraine by russia, and taking into account the impact of sanctions, the modernisation of the energy charter treaty (ect) is happening under a different light and with regained momentum.
in the event that the negotiation is inconclusive, i would like to strongly encourage the commission to consider and prepare the option of a coordinated exit from the ect that would take into account our current geopolitical context, mitigate the effect of the 20 year sunset clause and alleviate, to the extent possible, the negative impact on the security of our energy supply.
mr president, mr vice-president, commissioner dombrovskis, the energy charter treaty, as we know it today, is absolutely unacceptable to my group, to the european union and, of course, to the sustainability of our planet.
i would like to express my concern about the position of those contracting parties to the treaty who do not share the european union's ambitions in the field of climate change mitigation, sustainable development and the ecological transition, despite also being signatories to the paris agreement.
the list of protected energy materials has to exclude most fossil fuel investments and include green hydrogen.
the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of natural resources, including the impact on the environment of the measures adopted by the paris agreement, and the impact of the measures adopted by the paris agreement on the environment.
and the european union's ability to develop public policies consistent with our commitment to become the world's first climate-neutral region by 2050 must be guaranteed.
i also ask the commission to uphold the ruling of the court of justice of the european union that the isds provisions of the energy charter treaty are not applicable in the event of intra-community disputes.
this is a reality that can happen with the current energy charter treaty.
the current energy charter treaty is not only inadequate, it is incompatible with the paris agreement and the implementation of our commitments as set out in the green deal and the climate act.
mr president, at a time when the war in ukraine is being fought with tragic acuteness over the question of energy sovereignty and dependence on hydrocarbons, it may seem a little ridiculous to talk about a text as archaic and outdated as the energy charter treaty.
for 20 years, decisions that encourage renewable energy and energy price modulation, or those that challenge projects such as gas pipelines, have been attacked by multinationals, who have received hundreds of millions, even billions of dollars in compensation.
hungary is also at the forefront of greening, which is why we support the negotiations on the modernisation of the energy charter convention.
i ask the commission to consider carefully the direct and indirect impact of the modernisation negotiations on the eu's energy supply, on the supply chains themselves and, not least, on the wallets of eu citizens.
mr president, investment is essential to the implementation of the energy transition and meeting our climate ambitions, requiring a drastic increase in investment in renewables.
but climate change remains the overarching, existential problem facing the entire planet and every living being on it.
the energy charter treaty (ect) aims to establish a level playing field for cross-border investment.
however, it was signed in 1994. the world has changed since then and we are now entering a pivotal decade where we need real climate action.
the ect should be revised to prioritise low carbon investment over carbon intensive investment, not used as a means to curtail ambition at the expense of society.
we have committed in law to climate neutrality by 2050. we should ensure all legal instruments and obligations are in line with this and this means dramatically updating the ect.
the same applies to the energy charter treaty.
the energy charter treaty allows fossil fuel companies to undermine government climate policies or collect billions in fines, all at the expense of the taxpayer.
the negotiations to deal with the energy charter treaty have actually been dragging on for four years.
so we have to start drawing conclusions: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind.
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, i must tell you that for people like me who have been calling for the end of fossil fuels and our dependence on gas for years, the debate we have had since this morning should make me happy, and, i will not lie to you, there is a certain bitterness in my heart, because it took a war for us to realise the geopolitical and environmental damage of our dependence.
could we for once today anticipate by leaving the energy charter?
because we simply will not continue to compensate investors who have been sending us straight to the wall for years and who, in addition, make money on climate change.
it shows, not surprisingly, the effects of global warming on our environment and reveals the obvious: it is your policy and the economic model you are promoting that are causing it.
the degradation of ecosystem biodiversity is already irreversible and is set to intensify as the climate warms.
the whole planet is subject to the effects of climate change, which you seem to see without ever questioning your choices.
you have given the keys to production to countries that apply environmental standards at a discount.
you are locking yourself up in this excessive liberalism which is blowing up the carbon balance of shipping, whereas our industries, in the past, ensured us autonomy in many areas.
and above all, you have led us into a war over energy and food without realizing the grave consequences for the daily lives of our citizens.
coal and wind turbines must be put on the back burner to rely on nuclear energy, which is clean and efficient.
europe accounts for 16% of historical emissions, africa for just under 7%.
even today, the richest 10% are responsible for 45% of greenhouse gas emissions.
our european companies continue to invest in fossil fuels rather than renewable energy, on our territory and especially outside: total in suriname, in nigeria or, with the abominable eacop project, in uganda, shell in namibia or malaysia, or eni in angola.
the solution is climate action in justice.
it isn’t even just an imperative because we simply want fair taxation and a fair business environment in europe.
and as i said, in this transition we’re in, in the industrial revolution, the climate crisis, the core element that links everything together is social justice.
in the midst of the crisis, with energy prices soaring in europe, you want to contribute to the rise in the price of carbon in the ems market and to place a significant burden on european businesses and households.
it is linked to two other crucial texts in the climate package: the border carbon tax and, above all, the revision of the ets market.
the latter text calls for the creation of a separate carbon market, called seqe 2, for buildings and road transport.
despite your assurances of compensation, the rise in energy prices will only be more brutal, especially for the most vulnerable.
we must act to balance and even lower the carbon price, if necessary by injecting rather than removing emission allowances from the market.
this agreement will increase the use of hired vehicles, which will also benefit the achievement of the eu climate goals, since such vehicles are ever more environment-friendly.
the revised directive will therefore also have an important environmental impact.
but we have, nevertheless, been able to work together constructively and pragmatically on various issues in the interests of sustainable fisheries management on both sides of the channel.
our ultimate aim remains the same: good cooperation with the uk and norway for shared stocks, as well as good cooperation with coastal states on widely distributed stocks in the interest of sustainable fisheries management across the whole north-east atlantic.
in the north-east atlantic fisheries commission, we will work closely with the like-minded contracting parties to achieve sustainability goals and to ensure the fair competition for our operators.
one of the keys to coping with this is sustainability.
the eu must not use brexit as an excuse to delay the necessary actions to move towards a more sustainable fisheries.
only sustainable management of stocks will ensure the sustainability of fisheries activities in the long and medium term.
let's keep moving towards a more sustainable fishery.
madam president, commissioner, brexit cannot call into question an overwhelming biological truth: the waters of the atlantic form a coherent ecosystem.
their fisheries resources must be managed in a sustainable manner through the agreement and trust relations that are appropriate for all coastal countries and with the rigor that the existing scientific data on the state of stocks permit and require.
i would like to say that the work we have done here to defend european fishermen, the fishermen of our countries, who are now being hit hard not only by the consequences of brexit but also by the crisis triggered by the exponential increase in energy prices, makes perfect sense in the moment we are living in, because fishermen are one of the essential supports of our food.
against all the storms - the pandemic, the rising energy prices, a missing license - he continues to fish.
– mr president, as you said, i was appointed rapporteur for the commission proposal on the revised guidelines for trans-european energy infrastructure.
the second, the most important change is the mandatory sustainability criteria that have been introduced for all types of project.
new categories of projects include hydrogen infrastructures, certain types of electrolysers, as well as smart gas grids to integrate low-carbon gases into existing gas network.
and we have introduced an amendment allowing new sub-category of projects to apply for pci status and financing in the regions with low levels of offshore renewable electricity.
in the draft report adopted by the itre committee we have included a definition of ‘security of supply’, meaning also ‘energy security’, and we have stated that it cannot be achieved without reducing strategic energy dependencies, it was very important.
and we know that in the tragic reality of war in europe and the dramatically low level of the union’s energy security proves that, since years, the eu has made serious mistakes in assessing the needs, including in terms of trans-european energy infrastructure.
once the proposal is officially adopted and in force, we are one step closer to a climate-neutral europe because we will have a forward—looking framework for planning the infrastructure we need to deliver on our energy and climate goals.
as the one and only instrument for cross-border infrastructure planning in the eu since 2013, the existing ten-e framework has been very successful, both for completing our single energy market and the broader energy union.
it has advanced energy interconnections across the eu.
it has made our energy markets more secure, better integrated and more competitive, and it has made our energy systems more sustainable by boosting renewables.
our decarbonisation goals have changed and for this we need a more integrated energy system, rapid electrification while doubling the share of renewable electricity production, decarbonisation of the gas sector, and a hike of uptake of innovative solutions.
over the past years, the eu has diversified energy sources and strengthened its security of supply.
so, with our repowereu strategy, we are determined to phase out russian gas well before 2030. this means ramping up the production of green energy, something that the revised ten-e regulation will help us to do by speeding up offshore projects development, by bringing forward new projects in hydrogen networks, electrolysers and smart gas grids, and by accelerating the permitting of grid projects to allow more renewables.
so i can tell you ten-e is not simply about the physical infrastructure of our energy system, it’s a route to our future cause and it’s a protective shield for the energy that powers our union.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 76/769/eec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound power level of towed vehicles.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we see this even more clearly in the light of vladimir putin's war in ukraine and the dependencies he has managed to lock us into: the way we organise, plan and finance our energy infrastructure is key.
it is the key to our ability to face the great challenges of our time: peace and, of course, the fight against climate change.
the revision of this regulation was therefore necessary and urgent in order to give substance to our climate commitments, to those of the green deal.
finally, by integrating co2 transport and storage into the projects financed, given their exorbitant cost, given the small amount of funds actually available, we reduce even more the sums we can spend on energy efficiency and achieving 100% renewable.
mr president, this is a lost opportunity, because instead of using this regulation to really change our energy towards more renewables, we keep investing in gas infrastructure, staying vulnerable both to the climate and the geopolitical front.
the eu must be energetically independent, but the only path towards energy independence is to reach higher energy efficiency, wider deployment of smart grids and more renewables.
mr president, to make the energy transition work for people and business in europe, we need more european cooperation.
sustainability, security of supply and affordability are the main criteria, and we, the epp group, believe in these three aspects, and they are necessary.
i think we should highlight that there is a sharpened focus in this regulation on the needed infrastructure to deploy a robust european backbone for the production and transport of renewable and low—carbon hydrogen, that is actually needed to make the shift, the transition, possible.
mr president, commissioner, this revision of the regulation, our s&d group, has been calling for it since the last mandate and i have called for this revision because it is important to achieve our 2030 objectives, the climate objectives, the objectives we have all set ourselves in order to live in a better world.
first, we wanted to have, and we want to have, an energy market that is functional.
unfortunately, this price crisis has shown that we are far from having a functioning european energy market and i believe that the next measures that the european commission and you, commissioner, will announce will be in that direction.
i was saying that security means having the energy we need to heat ourselves when we need it, and above all not having to make any european citizen choose between heating himself or buying food or medicine.
it's good that in this regulation we have something that is directly related to the use of hydrogen and increasing access to renewable energy sources, especially offshore.
mr president, everyone seems to finally understand how important it is to fund our european energy independence.
relying on more gas through different suppliers only creates new dependencies, draws away funds from investments in renewable energy and energy efficiency, and locks us into fossil infrastructure for decades.
just for example, in sicily, on 1 april, the electricity generated by wind and sun has covered all the energy needed in the island.
40% of the energy in europe is spent on housing, and right now when people are building new houses, they're installing gas boilers simply because they're cheaper than, say, heaters.
in this way, we will help people cut down on electricity, help every family have a warm and comfortable home, reduce greenhouse gases and reduce our energy dependence on russia.
so let's be smart and change europe's energy policy for the better!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about renewables we must not only think of solar panels and wind turbines, but also of the networks that will transport green energy across the continent.
because if the european union is serious about achieving climate neutrality, it will require at least 50 billion euros of investment in upgrading the electricity grid and at least 65 billion euros in developing a hydrogen transport and storage network, and this by 2030, practically tomorrow.
this regulation is a step in the right direction: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the energy efficiency of the community's transport infrastructure.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the regulation we are about to adopt is very important, both to ensure the security of energy supply and to prepare an infrastructure adapted to combating climate change, an infrastructure geared to the future which provides us, for example, with the transport of hydrogen.
however, in a few weeks we have entered a new era, because of the war of invasion of russia in ukraine, and i think that today we must explore - with the greater ambition that has been called for - all the possibilities and the space that the regulation provides to solve the infrastructure problems that have emerged and to overcome those deficiencies and those gaps identified in our security and in our european energy supply.
i shall indicate three of them by title: total detachment from russian dependencies and attention to not creating new dependencies on raw materials, energy sources and countries of origin; priority to infrastructure for new sources: i think of hydrogen, renewable energy and renewable gas, which are still too small a share.
and finally, leveraging the capacity of mutual cooperation with countries and continents like africa, because that can increase renewable energy capacity for them and for us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the ten-e regulation is of paramount importance in achieving europe's ambition to build a more integrated and resilient energy market.
however, there are still gaps in the dominance of fossil gas in our energy system.
so let's try to minimize the use of public funds for fossils, because it's the opposite of our climate and geopolitical ambitions.
madam president, commissioner, the energy crisis that all member states are experiencing must change the priorities of the 2023 budget, with massive investments enabling us to achieve energy independence.
the unprecedented rise in energy prices is affecting all european citizens and our businesses, and in particular smes.
increased energy independence is a major challenge.
moreover, projects of common interest relating to energy must be implemented in the short term, as the crisis seems to be a matter of time.
we must demand respect for the principle of reciprocity and fair competition: it is not possible for our companies to be excluded from public procurement in china, and it is not possible for chinese companies to follow rules which differ from those in europe in terms of the protection of workers, health and the environment.
in light of covid, war, energy and raw materials crises, we may also need to rethink the eu-china investment agreement.
the european union and china have deep differences, but we need each other to tackle the big challenges ahead: climate change, peace - now, arguably, the most important - and respect for the integrity of states and the international order, which has been blown up by the russian invasion of ukraine.
so it is time to assume the balance of power that is imposed on us: to no longer depend on russian energy, therefore, but also to no longer depend as much on the chinese production apparatus; time to stop being bullied, attacked or bought without reacting; time to remind our elites of the minimum duty of loyalty they owe to our countries and institutions; time to warn our former leaders who went to serve huawei that they will sooner or later face the shame of those who went to serve gazprom.
we need to crack down on human rights abuses and environmental damage in supply chains.
and instead of replacing one polluting energy with another, let us finally accelerate the development of renewable energy, the only guarantee of our energy independence.
many of our challenges know no borders: the pandemic, war or climate change.
strategic autonomy and a focus on research and innovation should be the seeds of a global network of multilateral cooperation, which is secure, based on trust, attractive, open, sharing humanistic and sustainable values and priorities and fostering the circulation of knowledge.
climate change is a global problem and we need to mobilise the european and other countries' scientific community as much as possible.
we will continue our efforts to ensure that all european researchers continue to be guaranteed a working environment that respects these values, so that they can express their talents in the best conditions.
scientific research in strategic areas such as energy, transport, health and the environment is absolutely invaluable for the future and competitiveness of the union.
in france, according to data collected by william acker, mobile populations are exposed to environmental nuisances: sewage treatment plants, seveso industrial sites, such as lubrizol in rouen, or polluting mills such as hellemmes-ronchin.
in hellemmes-ronchin, women in the da so vas association are fighting against the pollution their families are exposed to.
europe must defend the basic rights of roma and travellers, starting with the right to live in a healthy environment.
the european resources can thus be transformed from a waste into a help, from a waste into an opportunity.
people’s future prospects are severely limited by being trapped in this spiral of poverty and of a lack of opportunities and few, if any, exit routes from such an environment.
these initiatives will tackle both the supply and the demand side of the problem and will contribute to more sustainable consumption.
on the supply side and responding to the first dimension raised by parliament, the commission adopted last week, on 30 march, the proposal for a sustainable products initiative.
finally, and responding to the third dimension and also on the demand side, a proposal for an initiative on promoting the sustainability of consumer goods in the sale of goods directive and through a consumer right to repair is planned before the end of this year.
in addition to the mentioned proposals, the commission’s sectoral approach on green procurement and the proposal for a data act also contribute to the sustainability and promotion of repairs.
it is good that we are talking today about the right to repair, because it is a slogan that sends an important signal for sustainability, but which we as the epp group also want to complement with innovation.
this is an important question, not only for people's technical understanding, but also for the sustainability of production capacity.
i am sure that we need the right to repair slogan on the one hand, which makes it clear that we want sustainability.
yet, the waste in our environment is piling up, and citizens are forced to buy new appliances over and over again.
it's the only way we can give consumers a real choice between sustainable and unsustainable products.
our single market must be more sustainable, to avoid waste and waste, of course, to protect the planet, consumers and consumers.
repairing is good for local employment, for the sovereignty of the european union, for the european economy, for the consumer's wallet and, of course, it is good for the environment and the climate.
in europe we are the world champions in electronic pollution: no less than 12 million tonnes of this waste are generated every year, or 16.2 kg per capita.
we know that much of this waste ends up in nature, not recycled or shipped to other countries where it feeds open-air landfills, also polluting the soil.
we send our waste to africa and asia for the sake of our little european comfort, but with total disregard for the environment and the people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens are demanding a stronger europe, one that will tax the big multinationals and speculative finance, that will stop the climate catastrophe, that will guarantee security and protection against threats to health, but also against the new spectre of war.
(the speaker agrees to reply to a 'blue card' speech)
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
the war in ukraine, which affects us all, this inextricable energy crisis, the warnings in the ipcc report that show the absurdity of thinking of solutions within the limits of nation states, is the sixth of nine global limits that have just been crossed and our common living conditions are seriously endangered.
if this parliament once again chooses competition between peoples and a narrow vision of european citizenship, we risk losing decades of declining rights and freedoms or the ravages of climate change.
because of these harmful choices, plastic pollution has become the most visible consequence of this disastrous globalization.
we know that the environment cannot absorb this plastic and we know that it has an unacceptable impact on animal life, especially aquatic life.
you have turned the environment into a private club that applauded the most anti-national and hysterical proposals.
so i think there are many opportunities in this own-initiative report to look at a more sustainable blue economy.
let's call for a ban on bottom trawling in european marine protected areas for biodiversity, for the climate and for the future of fishermen.
yes, we do not all agree on everything, especially on the tools, but we do agree on the objectives, such as carbon neutrality, strategic autonomy and the fight against inequalities.
we know that we need to invest more in ecological planning, more in innovation, more in the strategic autonomy of our continent.
renewable gases are also a wonderful tool in the hands of our farmers, for example, because we do have lots of residues that could be taken into good use and used to produce biogas.
and in the longer run, last december we proposed the gas decarbonisation package that guides us to decarbonise our gas market and many member states have already achieved the situation where natural gas represents a very small share in their energy mix.
so this is not a copy of the strategic oil stock, which is impossible to release unless there is a specific position among international energy agency members to do so.
– the first part of the question of why we don’t have a 100% renewable scenario comes from our treaty and the treaty says that member states do have the sovereign right to choose their energy mix.
and we know that we do have member states who are committed to becoming climate-neutral, with the help of nuclear.
so, there are lots of actions already taking place on the ground and we do have good partners at the entso-e or different associations that unite our energy market participants who are promoting this.
– (start of speech off mic)... based on our annual working plan and, of course, we are in 2022, well, this is all about extraordinary measures but you can expect that in september we will have our digital energy action plan and by that time we have to do our utmost that everything that is already agreed will be also taken into account.
we have thus tackled a crisis which could not be tackled by the member states individually, but we are now facing another pandemic, namely the energy crisis, which requires a similar response.
safer and more accessible renewable energy sources will help to solve environmental, climate change and security problems, to reduce costs for households and businesses, and to achieve energy independence from third countries.
i ask you why you are not putting forward a legislative proposal for an energy recovery fund funded by european funds?
– yes, indeed, we need significant investment in our energy sector in order to replace old solutions with new ones.
in this regard, already the recovery plans that national governments presented to us were designed so that 37% of the funds were dedicated to climate-related expenditure.
we cannot achieve these high targets without private investment, without our financial institutions stepping in and with the help of the private investors, but also with the eib, who announced that they will be a europe’s climate bank, we plan to accelerate this transition and we have to do that.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to return again and again to the energy recovery fund because we are convinced that it would contribute to investment in energy efficiency and above all in building the infrastructure needed to interconnect europe with regard to energy produced from renewable sources in order to create energy communities and other consumption systems.
and on top of that, the revenues that member states do receive through the ets scheme – and they were significantly higher than was predicted just a year ago – should also be dedicated to climate-related actions.
the european commission has considered the iberian peninsula an energy island.
what is the exceptional procedure for the third connection of the iberian peninsula to the european energy market?
– well, indeed, portugal and spain have proposed a temporary, targeted solution for their energy market.
i think that is very important to say that we didn’t start our energy transition on the day when russia started war against ukraine.
i have just heard one of our colleagues, mr roos, say that the risk for the european union is renewable energy, because it is renewable energy that is condemning us to remain locked in russian gas.
i would like you to say no, that renewable energy is the way to combat our dependence on russian gas, to protect the climate and also to guarantee peace.
and this is what the ipcc is calling us to do for the climate, telling us that not only do we have to stop building gas infrastructure, but we should also shut it down before it has reached its return on investment.
we can shorten the permitting so that new renewable installations are not taking decades, are not taking seven years, but a significantly shorter timeframe.
i think that is a clear balance sheet and i would even say here that it has given us real impetus to progress in the process of european integration in health, security and defence, democracy and the rule of law, climate change, the digital economy.
when you want a real energy union, you need a change of the treaties – because an energy union, we don’t have one.
we have not one energy mix that is decided at european level and we don’t have a common purchase of energy decided at european level.
the citizens expect concrete social change guy verhofstadt spoke of the energy union and the health union.
citizens want a shift towards a more inclusive, more resilient, more sustainable european union, where digital and green transition is possible, but with a social dimension.
we need to reform our tax rules taking into account the impact of covid and the ecological and digital transitions.
it is therefore crucial to strengthen our energy independence by continuing to strengthen our nuclear sector, the cleanest and most decarbonised energy available to our societies today, by refusing to give in to the pressure of the greens who want to return our societies to the economic stone age by reopening coal-fired power stations.
we want to do this in france, where taxes represent almost 60% of the price at the pump, and we must also be willing to admit that at this moment the energy sanctions imposed by europe have weakened our purchasing power while enriching russia.
we must prevent vladimir putin's war from creating social chaos in the european union, because europeans are facing increased energy poverty and inflation.
the aim is to ensure that fishing activities are economically, socially and environmentally sustainable in the long term.
that's a waste of at least 240 million doses.
this waste is a 77 percent increase in pfizer's revenue.
the recently adopted climate, environmental protection and energy aid guidelines are key enablers of the green transition.
a recent example is the council decision from last year, by which the commission imposed heavy fines on a number of carmakers who colluded to slow down the deployment of technical development potential to reduce car pollution levels.
and we emphasised the need to consider the socioeconomic impact also of energy prices now.
it basically builds on our commitment to reach consumer choice, safeguard the internal market and make our economy a fair, competitive and future-proof ecosystem.
and despite the warnings of environmentalists, when these same billions of dollars in state aid are used to support an energy model that cannot do without mr putin's goodwill, is that not contrary to the spirit of the european treaties and the building of the union's sovereignty?
we know that tomorrow the european territory will suffer a climate catastrophe.
will the union protect us and our children tomorrow by making renewable solutions less competitive?
we could thus continue to list the renunciations on the map of the european states complicit in the climate catastrophe, pollution and tax predation.
strengthening consumer rights both online and offline, contributing to the green deal objectives and sustainability policies, as well as strengthening the internal market by addressing unjustified geoblocking or territorial supply constraints are just some of the good examples in our work.
at the same time, i also have to underline that the imco committee correctly pointed out several other important issues in its opinion, such as that competition policies can contribute to the energy union, but this does not mean to facilitate the creation of industrial giants.
with the war and the energy crisis, the new temporary framework for state aid once again provides massive support to counter rising energy prices.
sargassum algae are ravaging the ecosystem of the french west indies in martinique and guadeloupe.
i could believe in a feat, but i know that the commission agreed to derogate from this most sacred energy market, in part because spain and portugal had already shown the way without waiting for the green light from the european union.
the war in ukraine is not just driving up energy prices.
mr president, commissioner, what we are experiencing is a reflection of the more structural problem of energy dependence, which we have been warning about for a long time.
that is why we must combat the myths of european energy policy.
without changing the rules of the market, fixing prices and strengthening public control of energy, everything will continue in the same way, with the energy cartels accumulating profits and distributing dividends, while households continue to pay.
we need to invest more in renewable energy and ensure a real energy transition.
only a fair, publicly controlled model that is compatible with climate goals can help our energy sovereignty.
commissioner, i fully support raising the renewable energy target to 45%.
it is good that the commission is now joining in, and i am pleased to say that we are also prepared to support this higher value in energy efficiency if certain conditions are met.
the auctioning of additional allowances from emissions trading is discussed very critically.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, radically changing our energy supply model while maintaining productive capacity and growth in europe is a huge task, but we can do it if we are united, that is, if no country, as is unfortunately happening today, plays a double game or holds back.
the points are clear and agreed, madam commissioner: accelerating renewables and hydrogen, creating local systems to maximise the potential, including energy, of the circular economy, efficiency and savings.
it was therefore essential to raise our energy targets and finally to take concrete action.
the un and the international energy agency tell us one thing: we don't need any more fossil fuel infrastructure.
so for climate, for peace, let's stand up to the oil and gas multinationals and their super profits.
mr president, the situation created by the war launched by russia against ukraine risks putting us in a situation of shortages in the medium term in the european area and will continue to raise energy prices for consumers and businesses in our countries.
it was then that the coalition currently in power in germany decided to go back on its word and vote against the taxonomy delegated act, including nuclear energy in the energy sources that can serve the decarbonisation of our continent.
however, financing is provided for nuclear energy, which now accounts for a quarter of european electricity production.
we will not avoid these shortages and the rise in prices if we are not able to take advantage of all the energy sources currently available.
and even if the focus has shifted at the moment on security issues that result from the illegal and criminal and inhumane invasion of putin’s troops into ukraine, the biggest threat, mid- and long-term to our common security is the devastating effects of global warming, causing extreme weather, causing natural catastrophes like droughts, like floods, like tornadoes, like the rising sea level.
but through climate mainstreaming by the european commission and the green deal and all of us together, this also has an impact on our security services.
so there is a clear demand also towards the security services to reduce their co2 emissions by 30%.
and knowing that far more than 50% of the co2 emissions actually come from cooling and heating or from procurement and other services, we see that there is a huge potential, even before we start talking of potentially electrifying tanks.
we also have to see that we need climate experts in our missions because, meanwhile, we have data where we can actually already see well ahead where potential conflicts or already existing conflicts are accelerating through climate data because a lot of the conflicts that we see are actually based on land and water conflicts.
nato is working on climate strategies.
national governments are working on climate strategies.
and this report also points out that we need to align all of that to one common defence and climate strategy.
in a poll taken by eurobarometer in january 2022, eu citizens ranked climate change and environmental issues first among the main global threats.
it would be more accurate, therefore, to say, as your report rightly does, that climate change acts as a threat multiplier, it exacerbates socioeconomic instability in fragile countries, leading to increased insecurity.
global energy transitions will also change the geopolitical landscape and the war in ukraine is a catalyst in this regard.
it provides an additional strategic urgency to invest more in green energy and reduce our external dependencies on oil and gas imports.
as your report also rightfully emphasizes, our aim is to incentivise member states to prepare their armed forces for climate change and to contribute to the energy transition of our continent, not to put any constraints or limitations on the use of their equipment.
greater energy efficiency equals greater operational efficiency and safety.
later this month, we will present the first joint progress report on the implementation of the climate change and defence roadmap, as well as the concept of an integrated approach for climate change and security and reflect on additional work strands.
the aim is to equip ourselves to tackle the different climate security challenges that we see emerging already today.
take the example of the sahel, where climate change is leading to increased instability.
we are improving the way our early warning, planning and programming take the relevant climate-related conflict drivers into account.
we deployed environmental advisers to our csdp missions in mali and in central african republic and will start to measure their environmental footprint.
to strengthen our strategic foresight on the future operational environment in the sahel, but also other regions like the arctic, we propose to prepare a regional or thematic climate trend analysis in line with your report.
another key challenge is to make the armed forces gradually more energy efficient and sustainable.
their combined energy consumption is comparable to a smaller member state.
and we continue to build on the work done by the european defence agency in gathering data on energy efficiency, circular economy, green procurement and energy resilience.
climate change will impact our security landscape for decades to come.
i am therefore pleased that an austrian farmer, thomas waitz, has accompanied this important report as chief negotiator, as rapporteur here in the european parliament, because tackling climate change and updating defence policy and making it fit for the future are not yet success stories.
i think it's good that climate change is seen as a security risk in this report, because it is.
i always like to quote david beasley, the head of the world food programme, who says that climate change is the second biggest cause of crisis after man-made conflict.
i am critical of the fact that some forces are encouraged to do their work more or less carbon neutral.
we need to ensure that we address climate change - in politics, in all sectors of society.
we are also called upon to protect the climate.
i believe in importance to prepare for new security challenges affected by the climate change, which could increase threats and have geopolitical consequences.
due to climate change, water supplies will be affected, while global water demands will rise.
our response definitely should be both more environmental and without endangering our safety in these unstable times.
mr president, with the intensifying environmental crises, our european armed forces, but also our union missions and operations, are faced with increasingly difficult conditions for action.
these same armed forces are major consumers of fossil fuels and their emissions are not included in the paris climate agreement, as the rapporteur has pointed out.
we therefore call through this resolution for military activities to play a full part in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, while maintaining their operational efficiency.
to do that, we need to have a common methodology for quantifying these emissions and that is what we are asking of mr borrell.
secondly, we must reduce the environmental impact of our military activities, whether for aircraft, tanks or military buildings.
we need to invest in energy efficiency and new energy sources.
and when we look at the list of challenges facing island territories: adaptation to climate change, energy challenges, transport, youth, employment, well, we realise that these are the great challenges facing the european union and we immediately see that we are bound by a common destiny.
this intergovernmental agency, which could be joined by countries outside the european union such as the united kingdom, would have as its strategic development axis the exploration of energy and mineral resources, hydrocarbons, polymetallic nodules and sulphuric mixtures, research on renewable marine energies, biological animal and plant resources, transport and maritime surveillance.
the european island regions, 2 400 islands, including my own region, sicily, belonging to 13 member states, with an estimated population of over 20 000 000 inhabitants (4.6% of the total population of the eu), represent a heritage of inestimable beauty and richness in terms of landscape, biodiversity, culture and language.
the legislative package fit for 55% currently being implemented will have to take this reality into account and create the conditions for these territories to become a valuable laboratory for sustainable policies in areas such as clean energy, the circular economy, tourism, smart mobility, waste management and the blue economy.
the commission has announced that we will soon have a regulation - i thought it would be a directive, but apparently it is a regulation - on the more sustainable use of pesticides, that is to say, on their reduction, as promised in the european green pact.
you are totally correct in saying that we are putting forward before the summer a new ‘sustainable use of pesticides’ regulation.
it is very clear to us – and i will stop here – following the pandemic, how interconnected our health and our environment is, and that we need to move forward in a different way.
i've been using these methods for a long time as a farmer myself, and they work wonderfully, because biodiversity helps us, because the climate is less violent towards people who work with these alternative methods.
these are alternative methods that generate real virtuous circles for biodiversity, for our health and for the climate, and for the farmers' economy, among other things.
it provides that states use economic, environmental and social criteria.
the report stresses that few member states use environmental, social or economic criteria to allocate fishing opportunities and that, when they are used, they have very little weight in the final allocation.
member states should also ensure that their allowance systems encourage better environmental practices.
let's not kid ourselves: we cannot achieve the objectives of the common fisheries policy, the marine framework directive, the green deal or the biodiversity strategy without tackling the issue of quota allocation.
the first item is the joint debate on fit for 55 (part 1), concerning the following: – the report by peter liese, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2003/87/ec establishing a system for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the union, decision (eu) 2015/1814 concerning the establishment and operation of a market stability reserve for the union greenhouse gas emission trading scheme and regulation (eu) 2015/757 (com(2021)0551 – c9‑0318/2021 – 2021/0211(cod)) (a9-0162/2022);– the report by david casa and esther de lange, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a social climate fund (com(2021)0568 – c9‑0324/2021 – 2021/0206(cod)) (a9-0157/2022); – the report by mohammed chahim, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a carbon border adjustment mechanism (com(2021)0564 – c9‑0328/2021 – 2021/0214(cod)) (a9-0160/2022);– the report by sunčana glavak, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2003/87/ec as regards aviation’s contribution to the union’s economy-wide emission reduction target and appropriately implementing a global market-based measure (com(2021)0552 – c9‑0319/2021 – 2021/0207(cod)) (a9-0155/2022);– the report by sunčana glavak, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2003/87/ec as regards the notification of offsetting in respect of a global market-based measure for aircraft operators based in the union (com(2021)0567 – c9‑0323/2021 – 2021/0204(cod)) (a9-0145/2022).
madam president, dear former colleagues, i thank you for inviting me to speak on behalf of the council on this very important debate on a number of issues in the package fit for 55 fit for 55. almost a year ago, the commission presented this transformative package, which affects all sectors of the economy and our society as a whole, and aims to both reduce european greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030 and set us on a path to climate neutrality by 2050. this is done by ensuring the future of our economy and guaranteeing the prosperity of european citizens, without excluding anyone.
so let's be clear: we must have a common goal of a balanced overall outcome, which will allow us to achieve our climate ambitions, agreed in a fair and cost-effective burden-sharing framework, where all sectors of the economy contribute, leaving no one behind and protecting both our citizens and the competitiveness of our economies.
this year, europe has already faced two major crises: russia's aggression against ukraine and the rise in energy prices.
on the contrary, they have once again confirmed the need to decarbonize our economy and make our energy systems more resilient and independent.
above all, we will have to look for concrete, effective and immediately applicable solutions to address the concerns of our citizens and businesses about the disproportionate growth in energy prices.
as you know, a whole range of measures will be needed to achieve our climate and energy objectives.
i can assure you that the presidency is working tirelessly within the council to advance work on all the issues it contains, and this in all the relevant council formations, namely environment, energy, transport and the economy.
as you know, the ecofin council in march gave a general orientation on the proposal for a carbon border adjustment mechanism, a flagship measure to apply the carbon pricing of greenhouse gas emission allowance trading systems to certain goods imported into the european union.
this will enable us to tackle the risks of carbon leakage more effectively while respecting the rules of the world trade organisation.
last thursday, the transport council reached agreement on the three dossiers under its jurisdiction, namely the proposal for a regulation on the deployment of alternative fuels infrastructure, sustainable marine fuels and sustainable aviation fuels.
as regards the remaining issues, i am confident that the energy and environment councils will reach general guidelines by the end of june.
the environmental issues that are the subject of today's debate are at the heart of the objective 55 adjustment package.
how can we achieve an outcome that stimulates innovation and ensures the competitiveness of our industries without placing the financial burden of climate change on the most vulnerable in our societies?
– madam president, minister, honourable members, it’s a year since you have decided to adopt the climate law.
reduction by 55% by 2030 and climate neutrality by 2050 is not just a wish, it’s a legal obligation.
parliament was also quick to rightfully call what we’re in a climate emergency.
so i don’t think there’s any european citizen we need to convince that we’re in the middle of a climate crisis.
today, i would like to plead for two things: i would urge you to vote for a consistent package to reach our climate targets; and also i would urge you to make sure that in doing this we leave no one behind.
first, emissions trading for fuels and road transport and buildings.
this is an incredibly important extra tool to tackle emissions in buildings and transport.
in transport, emissions are not just rising gradually, they’re shooting up instead of going down.
in buildings we need to double our effort to reduce consumption of energy.
this is helping our citizens reduce their energy bills, delivering better—quality homes, reducing air pollution that still kills prematurely 400 000 europeans every year.
and then, of course, we need this instrument to fill a social climate fund that could help us help vulnerable households.
this will take two thirds of the emissions out of the system.
instead of delivering 45% of emissions reductions in buildings and transport, it would only deliver 10%.
we agreed in the first european climate law to put ourselves irrevocably on the path towards climate neutrality.
we know that member states have not delivered the reductions in the past, and yet you plan to weaken an instrument that can deliver the emissions reductions in a socially fair manner.
with our proposal for emissions trading and the social climate fund, you would not only keep more money, but you could use it to help your vulnerable households and you could do so before the effects of emissions trading are felt – first, the climate social fund, and only then the emissions trading effects will be felt.
it is only fair to ask those driving on petrol to pay a carbon price.
the heating and mobility of the 20% poorest in society only produce 9% of emissions.
the 20% richer households emit 32% of emissions.
a social climate fund that uses revenues from the wealthy, who could change their habits in order to help the vulnerable, who cannot, is a fair way of redistribution.
yet your proposal could cut the social climate fund by half.
this would increase energy prices for citizens and this time without help for vulnerable households.
let’s agree that ultimately we want to transition in line with the climate law, the climate law which is binding on all of us.
it is a huge opportunity and, i think, even a last chance, because we are the last generation that can change the course of climate change.
we also need hardware to turn the paper targets that we vote today into hands—on reality: energy interconnectors; cables to link up offshore renewables; grid capacity; the adaptation of natural gas infrastructure into green hydrogen infrastructure, etc.
this climate package will only succeed if it leads to innovation, opportunities and jobs in europe.
this is also why the epp believes that we should not do away with our free allowances – which, let’s be fair, is currently the only instrument we have against carbon leakage – until we know that cbam works in praxis.
these laws should not be a plaything for the green elites, and we should avoid putting the heaviest burden on those who can least afford it – and yes, mr timmermans, that is why we need a social climate fund to go hand in hand with the new ets.
this might be the moment for me to remind you that it was your political family taking the lead in actually curtailing this ets too, and making the social climate fund smaller as a result.
but i hear the temptation among some to say ‘okay, let’s then have a smaller ets – maybe even smaller than the one currently in the compromise’ and ‘let’s have a huge social climate fund without worrying about where the funding is going to come from’.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of climate change.
in the first months of this term, if you remember, we declared a climate emergency in this parliament, and in july last year we passed the climate act, a binding law that aims to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. i would like to highlight the efforts and determination throughout this process of our vice-president, frans timmermans.
with the objective 55 package of measures we will be able to achieve the objectives of the climate law and turn them into reality.
our industry, agriculture, transport will have to adapt as quickly as possible to achieve climate neutrality.
we therefore propose, on the one hand, to create a social climate fund to help the most vulnerable households and, on the other hand, to secure and complete investments in sustainable infrastructure.
finally, this just and ecological transition cannot be confined to our borders.
and so the carbon capture and storage mechanism is essential to prevent carbon leakage.
and at the same time, this carries with it our responsibility to help those less developed countries reduce their carbon footprint.
dear comrades, we take responsibility in today's vote to show that our vote on the climate law was not just a political statement, but an iron commitment to citizenship.
hope for democracy first, because by proposing these laws we are responding to the wishes of the millions of voters who, in 2019, elected meps committed to climate and political projects committed to climate in the majority.
finally, a carbon tax at the border!
it is also a reason to hope for europe and its expertise, because it has been able to set carbon neutrality targets for 2050 in motion.
there is no doubt that we must also support the most vulnerable - and they will be supported - with an ecological revolution and the social fund for the transition.
with these laws, we enable everyone to drive without polluting, we will make polluters pay including outside the european union, with this carbon tax at the eu's borders we will avoid households bearing the burden of this transformation disproportionately.
the environment is well done in this house, not in the easy indignations, but in the complex detail of the law, amendment by amendment, we are building this desirable future.
climate change is happening and maybe sometimes it is having less attention because of all of the other developments but climate change is not taking a break.
there is an alternative in place, which is called the carbon border adjustment mechanism, and we are discussing the ending of free allowances way beyond that date.
because climate change will hit the poorest the most.
the only way to achieve social justice is by achieving climate justice.
so, dear colleagues, when at the beginning of our term, we declared the state of climate emergency, how serious were we?
a balanced approach – let's keep our climate in balance.
madam president, colleagues, i bring you this article from the newspaper mediapart, which documents how total's backstage lobbying in the 1990s caused us to lose 30 years of climate action.
it is in this context that the vote on the european climate package tomorrow must be understood.
as you know, we in the left group in the european parliament already regret the weakness of this climate package, whose objective and means are not even in line with the paris agreements, and which continues to rely on market mechanisms.
i am rather surprised, none of us here has spoken about it - it is a bit of an elephant in the room - but as meps we are all beset by increasingly alarmist and false messages that predict more or less the end of the world and a rain of locusts if the climate package is passed.
i've brought you some examples of the emails we get: here's an email from easyjet and ryanair, who want to make us believe that penalizing aviation's carbon emissions is likely to increase them; the president of the fnsea denies the climate cost of chemical fertilizers; the metal lobby, on the other hand, wants to sanctify their right to pollute for free.
so i'm going to ask you a fairly simple question, colleagues: are you going to do what those people did in the 1990s, who gave in to the pressure of the fossil-saving lobbies and wasted thirty years of climate action?
climate change is our problem.
because our dependence on russia, the high prices that we all suffer from, and above all low-income families at the moment, and climate change have the same cause: our dependence on fossil fuels.
the emissions trading, which i was able to monitor as rapporteur, is the core of fit for 55 and both the ipcc and the un keep saying that we urgently need a carbon price.
we are including shipping in the emissions trading scheme, and that is also very necessary.
ships - as one colleague put it - often burn the last of the dirt, and they have so far hardly been included in european environmental and climate law.
those who invest in climate neutrality must not be driven out of europe.
and it is important to me personally, mr vice-president, that we have also partially extended the scope to include process emissions.
this means that the company with the best idea wins the competition, not the company with the lowest carbon price nationally.
and we're moving the climate social fund forward.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with the social climate fund, the european union will ensure that billions in investments are made available to citizens across europe.
we are doing this in response to the challenges posed by climate change.
we are turning away from dirty energy, both the polluting one, of course, but also the one coming from russia, we need to reduce the impact on our families and workers.
we have introduced a definition for energy poverty and mobility poverty.
from the very beginning of this process we wanted to support sustainable investments on other measures.
and we did that because we reduced our long-term dependence on fossil fuel and energy suppliers.
citizens will finally be receiving cheaper energy bills.
the social climate fund will work in practice by financing investments in housing, commercial buildings, transport.
climate change brings with it serious challenges, challenges that we can combat through measures that will be financed by this fund.
when we have more investments in energy efficiency, we reduce demand, and therefore we reduce emissions.
and we will do this through the social climate fund because, madam president, the transition to climate neutrality needs to be social.
when implementing climate policy we must ensure that no one is left behind.
thank you very much, we were a really good team, and i think we managed to send a balanced report in relation to the social climate fund.
then we were also keen – i know that the distribution of funds is already taking into account the fact that some member states will need more support from the social climate fund than others – but we were very keen to increase this a bit to make sure that the poorest member states required slightly less national co-financing, and in particular when it comes to these structural investment measures.
and that means in particular smes, and in particular smes that are at risk of carbon leakage.
but i think here – and i have been very strict, i think with mr timmermans, saying that it was your group in the lead to actually make ets 2 smaller and it was your group therefore who landed us with a smaller social climate fund.
so to start ets 2 with commercial companies only and leave the households for later and therefore have a slightly smaller social climate fund, but one where we found additional money by leaving some allowances on the side of the social climate fund rather than transferring them to the innovation fund.
– mr president, dear colleagues, climate change presents a global challenge and it has already affected the lives of people on all continents.
it is very clear that global action and global cooperation is needed to mitigate the effects of climate change.
aviation is one of the fastest—growing sources of greenhouse gas emissions.
aviation accounts for 2—3% of global co2 emissions, and the long—term projections of aviation activity predict major increases in traffic.
before the covid—19 crisis, the international civil aviation organisation forecasted that by 2050, international aviation emissions could triple compared with 2015. i believe that concrete and appropriate measures are needed to reduce aviation emissions in order to be in line with the union climate law, its commitments under the paris agreement.
the european union is a global leader in the fight against climate change.
but also, i would like to point out that the paris agreement climate commitments and environmental ambitions cannot be achieved by europe acting alone.
concrete action and cooperation on a global level are necessary; accordingly, the eu will continue to lead by example in order to tackle climate change and align with the eu climate law.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the objective of combating climate change knows no borders and has an impact right from the start on our ambition, on the goals and objectives we set, on the economic impact and the social impact.
it is not enough to say, we need action, and for that we also need to have our own resources, revenue within the budget, for the budget, such as the border carbon emissions adjustment mechanism and also the new mechanism and the extension of the market for emission allowances.
mr president, mr vice-president, madam minister dear chrysoula dear colleagues, every day we look with horror at the devastating effects of climate change.
but, since 2019, we have started the necessary reforms and efforts: we have declared a climate emergency, we have negotiated for months so that the big polluters pay more and the most vulnerable pay less, we are the ones who will finally implement this carbon tax at the borders, because it is no longer acceptable that products imported from the other side of the world deviate from our environmental rules, and we have ensured that the recovery plan, which invests so much money in the ecological transition, will not be reimbursed by citizens, but by those who do not pay their fair share of taxes today.
the big polluters will contribute, and that's what tax justice and climate justice are.
who really believes that our businesses will thrive in an environment that is struggling to survive?
ladies and gentlemen, the climate emergency is everyone's business.
this week will mark a historic turning point in the fight against climate change.
there is no doubt that energy security is a crucial issue at the moment and if we do not turn away from russian energy resources in the short term and the war in ukraine is not short, the environmental situation on the continent will be endangered.
mr president, commissioner, as we all know, the countries of the south are those which have historically contributed the least to climate change, but which, on the contrary, suffer the most from its consequences.
at the copenhagen cop in 2009, the international community pledged €100 billion to finance the fight against climate change in the global south.
today we are taking an important step towards achieving this commitment, and it is an honour for me to have contributed to it, as rapporteur for an opinion on a report on the reform of the european emissions trading system, from the deve committee.
the text also proposes that eu member states should devote a minimum percentage of the revenue from auctioning co2 emission allowances to adaptation policies, mainly to combat climate change in low and middle income countries, which will increase in the coming years as free emission allowances are gradually reduced.
nevertheless, we celebrate this important step and at the same time, in the immediate future, we will continue to demand further action to go further in the areas of climate finance in the countries of the south.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, what we are about to vote on is indeed a step forward in environmental and social terms.
so thank you to the environmentalists who have been calling for years for the introduction of a carbon tax at the borders and for action to help the most disadvantaged.
but €25 billion is the profit made by polluting industries in europe by reselling free emission allowances at the expense of the climate and our health, and neither the reports of scientists, nor the appeals of citizens, nor the condemnations of several member states for climate action change anything.
the absurdity of the system is that not only will we continue to fatten up polluting companies with free polluting rights, but we will give nothing to those who have invested in the environment and have decarbonised their production.
today we are being offered the end of free emission allowances for 2032, 2034, 2036 even... as if the climate emergency could wait 14 years.
however, the bulk of the amendments from the right and the many recommendations, not always very subtle, from the lobbies only speak of emission quotas, these rights to pollute distributed free of charge to the sectors most harmful to the climate, such as aviation or the steel industry.
if we listen to the lobbies, we should continue to flood the carbon market with these pollution rights, so as not to damage the competitiveness of companies, and all this at the expense of the climate.
but despite lobbying, we have held our ground here in parliament with a first victory and a compromise that proposes to delay the carbon market for fuel and heating for households to at least 2029. the inclusion of transport and buildings in the carbon market would have only increased the already excessively high gasoline and heating bills.
we say: the carbon market is not the answer.
to leave the key to our climate policy to market fluctuations is to go straight into the wall.
instead, what we need is planning, both to achieve our climate goals, but also to make sure the transition is as fair as possible.
it is precisely in this spirit that i was responsible for negotiating for my group the social climate fund, a tool that can be improved, but which allows the question of the costs of transition to finally be put on the agenda.
the left's climate position, it's based on tough objectives and regulations.
it is based on the principle that climate change must be fair.
now that we have the most important climate vote of this term, perhaps of this decade, the right-wing group is choosing to lean against the climate deniers on the far right and run over the environmental committee.
nor should the liberal group, nor should they turn to the epp and the extreme right-wing climate deniers and make a deal and run over the environment committee.
the ambitions of the emissions trading system.
so, to the climate tariffs that i've been working on with our rapporteur chahim.
the fight against climate change is our primary concern.
at the same time, i am concerned about the way we are going to get to the other side: some of the measures proposed lack sound calculations and a sustainable vision.
is that why the social climate fund was proposed?
the social climate fund can only partially and temporarily reduce these.
responsible legislation and climate protection can only be pursued with adequate and substantiated impact studies, in agreement with the member states, so that the biggest polluters pay.
the balance must be struck between two needs, namely reducing emissions and ensuring economic competitiveness and, by implication, jobs.
reducing emissions is not achieved with ambition, it is achieved with innovation, with new technologies.
madam president, mr executive vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, there can be no ecological transition without social justice.
and this social climate fund is proof of that.
from the revision of the european carbon market to the introduction of the carbon adjustment mechanism at borders, the adoption of this climate package will not be without consequences, and there can be no strong climate ambition, as we are proposing today, without being on the side of the most vulnerable and the most modest.
and this fund will be an instrument to combat both poverty and greenhouse gas emissions.
on the one hand, to provide financial support now to those most exposed to the energy crisis and, on the other hand, to support them in the next decade to invest and finance this transition.
energy cheque, renovation bonus, aid for the purchase of electric vehicles, financial support for public transport.
while some, and specifically at the national level, declare themselves champions of purchasing power, they will vote tomorrow against a european fund that combines climate ambition with social justice.
madam president, this climate package should be called a degrowth package, but that objective is not being achieved.
the european union's climate ambitions will apply without distinction and whatever the cost.
however, you are aware of the particular sensitivity of the ecological transition to the daily lives of europeans.
at a time when ukraine is becoming the epicentre of an energy war and there are fears of a serious food crisis in the world, you do not want to slow down the pace of reforms in this context, but on the contrary to accelerate it.
at the same time, the taxonomy debate is moving towards excluding nuclear energy from european funding.
the urgent need is to lighten the burden of environmental regulations and cushion the soaring cost of energy, not to participate in it.
the european union has already reduced its emissions by 34% in 15 years, while it generates only 8% of global emissions.
if other countries don't follow suit, despite the claims of the border carbon adjustment mechanism, their emissions will offset our reductions and our sacrifices will have been in vain.
madam president, mr vice-president timmermans, first of all i have to say that i appreciate the great effort you are making to ensure that european industry, on the one hand, has to cope with this climate transition and achieve the climate goals that we have all set ourselves and, on the other hand, obviously retain its competitiveness.
the two files, both ets and cbam, are very important because, on the one hand, they are necessary instruments to achieve these objectives and on the other hand, we are addressing and have a measure that will put an end to a practice that does not mean 'level playing field', does not mean equal market conditions, because some pay climate taxes, carbon dioxide certificates and others do not, and then these measures must be taken.
and with internal combustion engines, we believe that we should let the market and technology decide and not ban those technologies that contribute or would produce zero carbon dioxide emissions.
we are deciding this week whether or not to keep the promise that was ours - the promise of the green deal, the promise to save the climate.
do you want to be the ones who have given in, who have abdicated to the lobbies by exempting more and more polluting companies from participating in the climate effort?
or do you want to be the ones who decarbonize european industry, end the combustion cars and pollution deaths?
if the answer to that last question is yes, then reject the lobby amendments and vote for the climate.
and when it became concerned about the environment, it set increasingly stringent standards for all those who produced in our countries.
for the first time we are going to make the single market a lever we have built to protect our environment.
tomorrow, those who import into europe will also have to pay for their carbon emissions.
simply imposing constraints on those who work in europe is not progress for the environment, it is a problem for the environment.
it's not about stopping pollution, it's about exporting pollution and becoming addicted to the model we refuse.
mr president, madam minister, the ecological challenge is one of the major challenges of our century.
this is not a political issue, but one which concerns all of humanity, and particularly the younger generations, who will be the first to suffer the full consequences of global warming and who will have to face the great challenge of the energy transition.
but rather than challenge the great shift in the world brought about by the proliferation of free trade agreements, the european union is trying to make ordinary citizens pay for the disastrous ecological consequences of its economic choices.
while you blame european citizens, you continue to allow our factories to be relocated to the other side of the world, thus depriving us of any means of controlling environmental production standards.
while you are drawing up grandiloquent climate roadmaps, you still forbid, in the name of free and undistorted competition, the privileging of local economic actors in the award of public contracts.
european countries are among the most virtuous in the fight against global warming.
in thirty years, the eu has reduced its greenhouse gas emissions by one third.
the ecological transition must not be punitive or sacrificial.
it must instead be a means of opening up new markets for our industry, of restoring the local economy and thus bequeathing a sustainable france and continent to future generations.
the climate emergency obviously requires new and ambitious decisions, but why is it always europeans, and especially the most modest, who have to bear the burden?
you know that to produce electric batteries, rare metals must be extracted from mines in china, the congo and bolivia, under disastrous environmental and human conditions.
the european union, which teaches the whole world lessons in humanism, wants to shift the pollution from our big cities to the third world.
who is responsible for climate denial today?
so yes, we have made the choice to work together, to work together with the greens, to work together with the socialists and above all to work together with civil society to have a high level of ambition on the climate.
the european union needs to attract legal immigrants to cope with its demographic winter, to ensure its ambition for energy and digital transition, and to address the shortage of skilled human resources in key areas such as tourism and health.
as long as these companies operate fairly in the market, do not receive unjustified state aid or engage in environmental, wage or social dumping, competition leads to innovation, better quality and lower prices, thus strengthening the european union's competitiveness in global competition.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the manufacture of certain products.
i would particularly like to congratulate the fact that social, labour and environmental obligations are finally being included in public procurement procedures; not only environmental dumping but also social dumping must be combated.
and i have a scoop for you: they're not asking for more competition, free trade or austerity, but more democracy, climate action, public services, social rights.
it is a question of our ability to respond to the ecological and social emergencies which the present european treaties paralyze us.
it is a turning point that we have been waiting for for many years, because today the citizens of europe are asking us for more social protection, higher wages, more commitment to the defence of human rights, more investment in sustainable development.
the same goes for health, energy, our place in the world.
the european union of june 2022 is a chaotic democratic space, shaken by the imminent return of war, pressed by its balkan youth, who are tired of waiting at the door, crossed by all the challenges of the climate emergency, and which has finally partially abandoned monetary rigor, because of the pandemic and then the energy crisis.
we're talking about such skills in health, social policy, energy or even education.
we have realised, with culpable delay, that we would have needed energy security, shorter value chains, investment in defence, food sovereignty.
we suspect, not to say we are certain, that you are not interested in removing unanimity in order to pass sanctions on russia more quickly or to have a stronger europe, but to impose by majority votes a determined political agenda, made up of mass immigration, the destruction of the family, climate fundamentalism.
during the conference on the future of europe, citizens shared their views and ideas on a wide range of topics, from climate change to jobs to european democracy.
it will of course be up to president charles michel, in his capacity as president, and in view of the agenda for the situation in ukraine in particular, to decide, but i think it would be necessary to raise this point as early as june in order not to waste time and not to disappoint in the follow-up of this process.
in the nine working groups, in the three hundred proposals that have been gathered - or even a little more - there is a lot of things, on health matters, on education matters, on trade matters, on environmental matters, that can go forward with a directive, a regulation, a parliamentary debate, sometimes a commission decision or a council position.
at the same time, the covid-19 pandemic and energy shortages have taught us that the european union needs more competences in health and energy.
this should be in line with those guidelines to be developed in the framework of the proposal for a directive on corporate sustainability due diligence.
today we are going to discuss, as we know, a package of major proposals to combat climate change.
so, madam president, it is one thing that some people in this house are climate grave-diggers, but i say, at least take your votes and let us at least have a say in whether we can raise the level of ambition of this climate package.
it's a climate issue, but it's also a democratic issue, i think.
madam president, it is with great zeal that the rapporteurs are presenting these three reports of the climate package to us today.
there is obviously a climate emergency, but what you call the climate emergency is really a desire to force your ideological project to be accepted.
so here are the irresponsible consequences of your policy: coal will have to be turned on full blast to power your expensive and inefficient renewable energy; the price of imported products will rise to finance environmental efforts on other continents, without any guarantee of results, moreover; finally, european citizens will have to respond to the injunction to buy electricity at no cost, even if it means exploiting child labour in cobalt and lithium mines on the other side of the world.
if your speeches are to be believed, we will solve the global climate crisis by increasing environmental constraints in europe.
europeans must not take on the entire burden of environmental measures while other continents wait quietly to recover our market shares.
by wanting to get rid of russian gas and oil, you are opening the door to american shale gas and its disastrous environmental impact.
the european union is facing a series of crises which will require europe to take coherent, ambitious and rapid decisions: inflation will become permanent, with the possibility of having an impact on sovereign debts; food crises, humanitarian crises and migration crises are likely; climate change will continue to work if we do not act.
in addition, it is essential to implement global cooperation policies to mitigate the impact of war on value chains, in particular on access to energy and the creation of better conditions for food production and distribution, avoiding a humanitarian catastrophe of major proportions, in particular in africa.
the next item is the report by mr barry andrews and mr petros kokkalis, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the implementation and attainment of the sustainable development goals (2022/2002 (ini)) (a90174/2022).
– mr president, commissioner, every issue that we’ve been debating today and tomorrow in the european parliament is linked to the sustainable development goals, and yet the sdgs have fallen dramatically off the political agenda.
we talk about global climate justice, brokering peace and protecting democracy.
what good is it if we reduce our emissions by 55% by 2030, if inequality continues to rise, as it has done in recent years?
and what good is it to have achieved our european climate targets if developing countries can’t afford to decarbonise, or if they are preoccupied by conflict or food insecurity on their own territories or mountains of unserviceable debt?
by recognising our goals and those of our partners as inextricable, the sdgs are a blueprint for climate justice.
the commission has presented an ambitious and comprehensive policy programme to deliver on sustainability in the eu and beyond.
several transformative initiatives have been launched since the beginning of this commission’s mandate – the european green deal, the climate law, the renewed sustainable finance strategy, the pillar of social rights action plan, an updated european skills agenda and a european education area, to name just a few.
as you know, prompted by the pandemic, the eu adopted, at record speed, next generation eu, and this includes taking action on the sdgs on which eurostat has concluded that we were lagging behind, such as combating climate change and environmental degradation.
at multilateral level, we actively support the annual meeting of the high—level forum on sustainable development, and i’m delighted that several of you will also be there as part of the eu delegation to take stock of all these achievements, but also to reflect on the remaining challenges.
therefore we must act to ensure that the social inequalities resulting from those crises and well-being- and economy-related impacts are minimised; that measures taken to protect the environment, climate and security are carried out in a socially fair and inclusive way, with a comprehensive mapping of the financial envelopes of eu policies, which have been reinforced by the additional next generation eu funds to create a greener, more digital and more resilient europe, as well as the social and demographic priorities set by the sdgs and the european pillar of social rights to be fully implemented.
mr president, commissioner, absolutely no one can say that they have not understood that climate change is a deadly roller for absolutely everyone, absolutely everywhere.
in the face of the climate threat, the sustainable development goals are both a compass and a thermometer.
the thermometer tells us where we are, and it's a wake-up call, because the reality is here: climate change threatens everyone.
but i also want to reiterate our responsibility to support our partners in developing countries, because europe's solidarity in the face of climate change cannot be limited to the geographical limits of the european continent.
for the greens/efa group mr president, we are voting on a consensus report on the implementation of the sustainable development goals.
for example, last week wto members reached an ambitious agreement to achieve sdg 14.6 on the prohibition of fisheries subsidies harmful to the marine environment.
as humanitarian crises and climate change accelerate, european and global policies are still far from aligned with the sdgs.
for the greens/efa group mr president, our dependence on russian gas poses economic, social, ecological and physical risks to europe.
except that in the meantime, the climate crisis has accelerated and is forcing us not just to get off russian gas, but to get off gas altogether as quickly as possible.
it's the climate and the peace.
the european states must retain the right to strategic independence and to the energy security policy of their choice.
similarly, i do not think that buying more and more shale gas from the americans will make any progress in protecting the environment.
the war has changed everything and has forced europe’s hand, accelerating our green deal ambitions and fundamentally altering our overall energy policy but – as vice-president timmermans said – uniting us and not dividing us, as war criminal putin expected.
mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, russia's war in ukraine has revealed our over-reliance on russian energy products.
this episode shows us how important it is to limit all our dependence on energy imports.
i welcome the initial progress in the negotiations on the review of the gas market, which is an opportunity to invest in the energies of the future such as renewables, but also in low-carbon hydrogen from electrolytic sources, which i would have liked to see promoted, mr vice-president, in the repowereu communication, rather than seeing the import of renewable hydrogen promoted, for example.
let us therefore continue our work towards european energy independence.
many of you have also tonight called for a sustainable and effective asylum and migration policy based on solidarity and shared responsibility.
with the dsa, we will create a safer, a fairer and a more transparent online environment.
going forward, telework can contribute to reconciling private and professional life, to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and to reversing population decline in smaller cities and rural areas.
we must also pursue the ecological transition in a fair way to guarantee safe and decent jobs, but also energy renovation projects that will limit the forced spending of households.
– i always say that in order to fight issues like climate change or biodiversity loss or pollution, they respect no borders.
we know that with ecosystem decline at the rate that we have, the places where eutrophication is taking place and dead zones are forming there will be neither fisheries or tourism.
mr president, commissioner, because of climate change, human negligence and some major accidents, fires have already broken out in the mediterranean and especially in my country, greece, which has been facing a serious problem in recent days.
my first question is whether you intend to ask the commission, in view of cop15, to institute specific measures to restore biodiversity in burning areas, by means of the exchange of know-how through a specific platform, and in addition to the design by the member states of specific programmes for the restoration of such biodiversity.
in view of this, i would like to know whether the commission intends, particularly in areas affected by natural disasters due to climate change, to take measures to support the efforts of farmers there, and because of the urgent need for people to stay where they are.
– absolutely, pollinators are a crucial part of our ecosystem, and we are seeing a steep decline in pollinators, especially wild pollinators, in our nature.
secondly, when we speak about pollination and so on, i think it must be addressed not only from an environmental point of view, but also from our cap and agriculture.
this is a strong signal sent before cop 15. overfishing is now the leading factor in the decline of marine biodiversity.
the action plan on the protection of fisheries resources and marine biodiversity must therefore play a crucial role in protecting and restoring marine ecosystems.
then, as regards fisheries activities, of course, our cfp has to play a crucial role, but not only cfp, also our fisheries fund, which is actually aimed at investing into more sustainable fisheries practices, helping our fishermen to transition.
we cannot rush things here, and we have to ensure that we have a proper impact assessment of what such activities would have as regards the sea’s ecosystems and environment in general.
but clearly, i think it has to address, first of all, the seabed, which is crucial for a thriving ecosystem.
mr president, commissioner, the preservation of biodiversity is essential both for combating global warming and for the protection of animal species.
you say you want to preserve our biodiversity.
do you really think that the supercargo ships that sail our oceans are not destroying our marine biodiversity?
you are lying to europeans because all the efforts of our fellow citizens to combat global warming are being thwarted by the perverse effects of your disastrous economic policy.
this model is destroying our biodiversity and causing species to disappear.
mr president, commissioner, you therefore find that the religion of free trade is far above the environment in the scale of values of european civil servants.
mr president, commissioner, as was widely discussed last week in lisbon at the united nations ocean summit, the ocean is in a state of absolute emergency because of global warming, pollution and our activities.
as the starfish mission you launched reminds us, it is imperative that we not only protect but also regenerate our seas, rivers and oceans if we are to continue to balance the climate, reduce coastal flooding and feed people.
i would like to express my support, but also to ask you a first question in the negotiations on the conservation of biodiversity on the high seas.
in lisbon, were you able to make progress on the... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, commissioner, two more questions on the climate agenda.
the first is: will the european union join the blue carbon coalition and put blue carbon ecosystems on the climate agenda, in the member states' determined contributions?
if we look at that, what are your plans to proceed with this rewilding target in biodiversity of about 20%?
european agriculture, especially intensive livestock farming, is a major contributor to the loss of biodiversity.
what would be your message to ministers who are now faced with loss of biodiversity, but also angry farmers?
but i think we are all sitting at the same table because we are talking about the biodiversity and ecosystem loss, which is a loss of our lifeline basically, of our health support system.
we now come to the next item on the agenda, the objection under rule 111 (3) of the rules of procedure: amendment of the delegated act on climate taxonomy and the delegated act on taxonomy disclosure (2022/2594 ((dea)).
the taxonomy is very clearly to harmonise claims by investor, what is a green and a sustainable investment.
then, on gas, first of all, we are making a separate category here for gas and having a higher emission threshold over other energy.
and it means that now when we look at the delegated acts, how can anyone say that if you have old—fashioned russian nuclear reactors – where you have a plan for the waste treatment by 2040 – that is the best gold standard of the nuclear energy in the european global market.
we might disagree or agree about what is the role of nuclear in the future, but if you include nuclear, it should have been that kind of a technology that has the plans already for the waste treatment.
the first and most important truth that i want to convey to you, as former colleagues, is that the climate delegated act, now in legislation since 1 january of this year, prioritises investments in renewable energy and energy efficiency.
the climate delegated act was also opposed by some who are speaking and will speak in this debate.
as a former member of this parliament, i fully respect your strongly held views, but i also appreciate the pragmatism and realism in this house that allowed the climate delegated act move from proposal to legislation.
but nuclear, low carbon is part of our energy mix in transition too.
the third truth: the taxonomy is a voluntary instrument to guide private investors towards investments that allow us to reach our climate goals.
it is not energy policy.
member states are, and remain, fully in charge of their energy mix.
our repowereu plan aims to tackle our energy insecurity as we move away rapidly from russian fossil fuel.
we need these alternative sources to eliminate over-reliance on russian gas, and we have to guard against stranded assets by ensuring that any new gas infrastructure would have to be able to convert to low carbon or renewable gases.
some member states are reopening coal-fired power plants because of energy insecurity concerns.
i hope that my remarks clarify why the commission believes that this complementary delegated act is important for our energy transition.
the debate today is about the correct classification of gas and nuclear energy.
we wanted to create a transparency standard based on scientific evidence to help market participants make sustainable investment decisions.
the commission has carefully considered how to combine the two elements, gas and nuclear energy, which have nothing to do with each other, in such a way that they neutralize each other.
this was an important measure aimed at establishing clear and shared criteria for including economic activities among sustainable investments, thus avoiding greenwashing and sending an unambiguous signal to those who want to contribute their private savings to combating climate change.
today we are discussing a delegated act by which the commission intends to include economic activities linked to the production of energy from gas and nuclear energy among those which would be taxonomically compatible and therefore sustainable.
this delegated act, in addition to not respecting the scope of the regulation, as already explained in my previous speeches, sends the wrong message to investors and european citizens because it labels as green what is not green, discrediting the whole regulation, because a source of energy that is a fossil fuel, such as gas, or a source, such as nuclear, whose production waste, the waste, takes thousands of years to be disposed of, cannot be considered sustainable, in defiance of the principle of not causing significant damage.
we are well aware of the role of nuclear and gas in ensuring security of supply in the years ahead, but the choices made by the member states in the energy mix are not in question here, and excluding gas and nuclear from the taxonomy of investments that want to qualify as green does not prevent these sectors from obtaining public and private funding anyway.
i would like to ask whether anyone in this house would really recommend gas and nuclear to a european citizen who wants to invest his savings in environmentally sustainable economic activities, at the expense of, for example, renewable energy or energy efficiency.
this is the time to show that we are not playing with the citizens and that we are serious about tackling climate change and the future of the next generation.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, energy is obviously a very controversial subject in this house.
i hope, as we all do, that we will eventually be able to supply 100% of europeans' energy needs with renewable energy.
we must therefore, by obligation, if not by choice, allow new investment in gas and nuclear under certain strict conditions, in particular transparency for investors, and for a limited time, which is the definition of a transition, so that the member states which, as has been said, are masters of their energy mix can organise their transition from starting points which we know to be very different.
commissioner, you said it yourself: these emissions, nobody says they are green, but they are temporarily indispensable to the transition.
the ukrainian minister for energy has just supported this delegated act, saying how important it will be for the future reconstruction of his country, as soon as possible.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
mr president, you are a member of the green group and i believe we share the same desire to tackle the climate crisis.
what is your response to the fact that nuclear emits twice as little co2 as wind and ten times less than solar, and what is your response to the ipcc saying that we will not be able to solve the climate challenge we face if we do not do something about nuclear energy, which is now the most decarbonised energy that european countries can have to face this challenge and preserve our energy model?
we cannot want to achieve the objectives of the green deal and do without controllable, low-carbon and cheap energy.
this objection is bad news for europe and ignores the fundamental issues of decarbonisation, energy sovereignty and competitiveness.
and in the present context of rising energy prices, a rejection of the commission's proposal would be unacceptable as it would worsen the situation.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that the fight against climate change will require the end of fossil fuels, an objective which cannot be achieved without nuclear energy.
at the same time, the geopolitical situation forces us to make the energy independence of our continent a top priority.
finally, at the moment of the debate, the means of producing renewable energy are intermittent and cannot meet a sudden increase in demand.
faced with this reality, the experts of the ipcc and the european commission are firm: the ecological transition will not take place without supplementing renewables with nuclear energy.
so tomorrow, when you vote, you will have the choice between supporting nuclear and renewable energy to save the climate, building european energy independence and ending fossil fuels, or burying nuclear, assuming our dependence on coal and extinguishing any hope of reducing our greenhouse gas emissions.
the truth is that in this context you are carrying out a shameful greenwashing operation by classifying nuclear and gas, which are still the main source of greenhouse gas emissions in europe, as green energy.
the truth is that the lobbies were right and you gave in to these energy companies after meeting them no less than eight times.
we have heard this evening from colleagues who call themselves environmentalists and who are prepared to sacrifice the energy chain, without which, as the ipcc says, we cannot save the climate.
we have heard from our socialist colleagues that they are prepared to sacrifice the energy supply chain which will allow us to control the costs of energy tomorrow, which are now skyrocketing for households, for families, for our companies, for our industries.
it will be an opportunity not only to show our commitment to the future of our continent, which began with the energy union and the european coal and steel community, but also to show the sincerity of our convictions, our ability to face reality, to take account of facts, to listen to reason.
but we also need to accelerate the global fight against climate change, which is causing drought, famine and conflict.
climate power, with the adoption of our positions on the climate package.
the final negotiations on the climate package, the end of our energy dependence and the adoption of the instrument to combat economic coercion are some of the issues on which parliament is working hard.
the hypocrisy of ecology and the environment continues to grow, and the eusf has taken advantage of its last days to give a nice gift to the trade deregulation by signing a new free trade agreement with new zealand.
a brilliant idea indeed: ecological dumping, imports from the other side of the world, our farmers in danger.
– mr president, i say to our dear british friends, we live in a time of anxiety: war has come back to europe, inflation is growing and climate change has come into our lives.
strong and sustainable agriculture: building a europe-ukraine union that can respond to the challenge of global food security.
the new structural context of the climate and geopolitical crises we are entering forces us to re-examine this functioning.
connectivity with our neighbours in the east through energy, digital and transport infrastructure is highly relevant in the context of russia’s unprovoked military aggression against ukraine.
it is a particular initiative aiming to ensure security of supply and a proper functioning of the energy sector, paving the way for future trade in electricity and renewable hydrogen.
as a clear signal of tangible support, we have also invited ukraine along with moldova, georgia and the western balkans to the eu energy platform, and we are working within the framework of the energy community to integrate our energy markets, enhancing our energy security and resilience.
first, energy security, one of the initiative’s priorities, and the question of reducing our dependence on russian fossil fuels, diversification of energy supply and transit routes.
since 2019, our objective is to transform the european investment bank into a climate bank.
progress has been made since then, with major changes in eib policies with the climate bank roadmap, which endorsed several important commitments, including 50% climate loans, and the end of fossil fuel financing this year, but which is somewhat clouded by the hundreds of millions of euros that were invested, during the transition period, in gas projects.
particular attention - and this is one of the novelties of this year's report - has been paid to the agricultural question, so that we can support specifically agricultural projects that are compatible with the climate challenges, but also specifically with regard to the animal welfare condition.
this is something that is extremely explosive but we really need to watch out for, because there is a temptation to continue mining conquest, including in the ocean floor, when the oceans are already under a lot of pressure with climate change, which is altering their ability to support life.
here again, the eib has evolved, but there are new environmental and social standards to be developed further, new transparency policies.
it is very important to be aware of these reports before they are also submitted to the eib's board of directors, so that the impacts, in particular environmental and social, that the eib's financial commitments may have can be verified in advance.
so, congratulations on the efforts that have been undertaken since 2019. to have a real climate bank that is robust, there is still work to be done, and it's not going to be done in a few days or a few months.
i appreciate the high percentage of investment in the environment, biodiversity and sustainability.
climate change is already here.
now i am a rapporteur for the epp for the energy performance of buildings directive and the renovation of the eu’s building stock is a key green deal priority.
the energy performance of buildings directive, under article 15, expands the toolbox for member states.
it includes energy efficiency loans and mortgages for building renovations.
the committee’s reports testify that the eib is overall on a very good path, in particular as a frontrunner in the area of climate action and as a role model for other international financial institutions in their quest to become paris—aligned.
the european investment bank is consistent with the question of investments in environmental problems.
consistency means going all the way and not at the same time financing projects that are still carbon-intensive.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission communications on the taxation of unplanned revenue of energy companies (2022/2747 ((rsp)).
– mr president, honourable members, ladies and gentlemen, the idea of taxing the windfall profits of energy companies has emerged in the context of the current energy crisis, and it has been floated as a possible measure to compensate high energy prices.
the czech presidency is of the view that taxing the windfall profits of energy companies is indeed among the tax measures that could be considered in a context where both households and companies are suffering greatly from the steep rise of energy prices.
member states are working hard to mitigate the current energy crisis and take up measures depending on the specific situations in their respective member states.
tax measures, including taxing the windfall profits of energy companies, are certainly worth considering.
some european countries, such as portugal and spain, have already started to tax the windfall profits of energy companies.
the czech presidency will continue to monitor this issue and discuss with member states how tax measures could counter the current eu energy price surge.
– mr president, minister, honourable members, russia’s acceptable military aggression on ukraine has not only caused a humanitarian catastrophe that is likely to worsen due to the food supply crisis worldwide, but has also had a disastrous effect on energy prices, putting households and businesses across the eu under big pressure.
in a global market and a unified european energy market, a higher price for gas translates into higher energy electricity prices overall.
we should avoid going for seemingly convincing solutions that are easy to implement, whose effectiveness in helping those most in need to afford energy is questionable.
let me also stress that we have a duty and commitment to tackle the climate crisis.
measures taken to address short-term issues of energy affordability or security of supply should not undermine but accelerate our long-term ambition for climate neutrality by 2050 and have to be consistent with the european green deal.
yes, all of us are paying higher prices at the gas station, in our energy bills or in the supermarket.
indeed, there is growing evidence that some companies in the energy market, such as the infra-marginal electricity generators, currently obtain excessive extraordinarily high profits resulting from the current energy market situation.
revenues raised in such an efficient manner again and should therefore be used to support vulnerable consumers as member states can distribute such revenues among final consumers, offsetting the negative impact of current high energy prices.
therefore, already in the repowereu communication from march this year, the commission stated that member states may exceptionally consider implementing such a tax, but such a measure needs to be carefully designed to avoid undesirable market distortions and avoid discouraging investments in renewable energy.
the guidelines put forward by the commission in march indicated in particular that the measure should not be retroactive, should be technologically neutral, and allow electricity producers to cover their costs, should protect the long-term market signals, and protect the carbon price signals of the eu emissions trading system.
the method for that calculation would have to be clearly specified and justified and should be directly linked to real additional profits generated by higher energy prices.
since the march communication, a number of member states such as spain, bulgaria, romania and italy have introduced temporary tax measures on such excessive windfall profits of some energy-generating companies to capture part of these extraordinary profits.
more than 100%: the profits of energy companies explode to nausea.
we are telling these countries that the winter will be tough on energy, with economic, social and political consequences that we can easily imagine.
these energy companies owe money to society.
mr president, the resolution adopted in may, which opened the possibility of creating a new tax on the exceptional profits of energy companies, was intended to combat price rises and to strengthen the energy independence of the european union.
moreover, such a tax is likely to undermine investment, especially if we really want to achieve the objectives of carbon neutrality.
at the same time, the european union maintains targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which are putting a huge strain on our european industries, and, driven by necessity, is reopening coal-fired power stations across europe.
from an ecological point of view, this is an aberration, a direct consequence of the sanctions against russia.
without support for the nuclear industry, we will have to choose between fighting russia with sanctions or fighting global warming.
the accumulation of sanctions against russia, the rejection of nuclear energy, the rejection of fossil fuels and the sickening blockade by the european union of the idea of questioning the european energy market are leading us straight to the dramatic explosion of prices that will bring our economies and even millions of europeans to their knees... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, i wanted to show you this: it's just a small ticket for a full tank of petrol for over 100 euros.
i shall therefore not comment on the reasons why the post-cotonou agreement is still on the back burner, after it has been possible to reach an agreement to move forward with a multilateral partnership between equals, with a strong parliamentary dimension, and in line with the major priorities of sustainable development, in a very close and committed work of the commission, the council, the european parliament and the organisation of african, caribbean and pacific states.
we are living in a time of tension that is affecting every continent: wars, pandemics, climate emergency, and now the increased risk of famine and food shortages.
an agreement that is relevant to the environmental, social and digital challenges of our century.
mr president, when do you intend to draw up a green transition plan that is both sustainable for the environment and sustainable for europeans?
first, only 6% of flights, long-haul flights, generate half of the co2 emissions of aviation.
these resources are so scarce that the rate of production to meet demand will not be sustainable.
furthermore, by producing more green fuel, manufacturers will mechanically increase their carbon footprint.
because the real idea behind this project is not to reduce the carbon footprint.
instead of recognising that this economic model is dangerous for the environment, you prefer to blame the middle-class european who flies from paris to budapest once a year, and again.
the ecological crisis is here and it is our duty to mitigate its effects on fauna, flora and the most vulnerable.
for our forestry strategy, this means better coordination of national policies to adapt to climate change.
the exploitation of forests, whether for construction or energy production, needs to be better regulated.
we must protect biodiversity and workers in the sector, especially those who are exposed to occupational accidents and diseases.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, forests play a central role in our fight against global warming.
capital is also attracted by the profit that can be made by planting trees with the aim of selling the corresponding carbon credits.
the forest is not only an economic area, but also a place of life and biodiversity.
we don't just think of trees as carbon traps.
and in those fumes, millions of tons of carbon are released back into the atmosphere.
the carbon agriculture that the european commission is currently working on could become a danger to the maintenance of peasant agriculture and to our food sovereignty.
the european union must prevent all greenwashing attempts by companies that do not make the necessary efforts to reduce their own greenhouse gas emissions.
the awakening is sudden, as the world's forests, which absorb carbon and house 80 percent of biodiversity, are disappearing.
mr president, for too long, third countries have been engaging in unfair competition by flooding our countries with cheap products, which are, it must be said, produced by slaves and which have disastrous environmental standards.
but for every environmental disaster caused by globalization, your response is the same: more and more globalization, and this text proves it once again.
so our vision of sustainability and conservation can be used, applied, everywhere.
i would like to reiterate my support for the creation of an arctic rfmo to implement conservation measures in a sustainable manner following the moratorium on fishing.
but i would also say that the fight against illegal fishing requires more than these rfmos; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the marine environment.
it emits 400 grams of co2 per kilowatt hour, seven times more than the french model, which is based mainly on decarbonised nuclear energy.
wind turbines are undeniably an ecological, environmental and economic scam.
it’s astonishing to me that whilst workers and families are subject to record increases in their electricity bills and trying to choose between heating their home or putting food on their table, the energy companies are making record profits.
our most basic human needs are under threat, threatened by the selfish profiteering of energy companies and the perplexing inactions of government.
that is why we in sinn féin believe the irish government must introduce a windfall tax on excess profits of big energy firms, redirect that money back into people’s pockets with direct supports and through long-term structural investments to eliminate energy poverty and accelerate the renewable transition.
the war in ukraine, the energy crisis, inflation, and economic hardship all eclipsed the spotlight that young people deserved.
mr president, there is a major energy crisis facing europe.
shortage of energy, high electricity prices, secondary effects, price increases, falling living standards.
it's good that we're able to replace the russian energy supply.
it turns out that investing in renewable energy, in grid connectivity, in energy efficiency is the right direction.
the meeting will continue tomorrow, tuesday 13 september 2022, at 9.00 a.m. with a debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the topic 'the impact of drought, fires and other extreme weather events: enhancing the eu's efforts to combat climate change'.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on the consequences of drought, fires and other extreme weather events: stepping up the eu's efforts to combat climate change (2022/2829 ((rsp)).
after the flooding and wildfires that led to devastation and loss across europe in 2021, we have all witnessed this summer how large parts of the continent have been ravaged by heatwaves, wildfires and droughts, threatening the lives and livelihoods of many people and communities, putting pressure on national economies and endangering the environment and biodiversity.
more resources will have to be dedicated to ensure the safety of both the people and the environment.
once again, we are reminded that climate change is already happening, that its impacts vary and are unpredictable, and that we must step up our efforts to reach the objectives of the paris agreement.
in parallel to the climate crisis, the eu also needs to deal with serious energy and looming economic crises resulting from the russian aggression against ukraine.
we should maintain the course set by the european green deal, which offers simultaneously an opportunity to increase our energy security by ending our dependence on fossil fuels imported from unreliable producers like the russian federation.
last year, the eu adopted the european climate law, a landmark piece of legislation, which ensures the legally binding nature of both the eu’s 2030 climate target to cut greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% compared to 1990 and its climate neutrality by 2050 at the latest.
we are all aware that the impacts of climate change, as well as the effects of the measures to address them, vary in different countries and regions.
the eu adaptation strategy also reminds us how safeguarding biodiversity and ecosystems is fundamental to climate resilient development.
additionally, let us not forget the efforts that the eu is undertaking in the global fight against climate change and where it must keep playing a leading role.
the eu is actively preparing for the climate conference cop 27 in sharm el—sheikh this november, which will dedicate a substantial part of its agenda to adaptation-related issues and adaptation finance.
the glasgow climate pact calls on parties to collectively at least double the provision of climate finance for adaptation to developing countries from 2019 levels by 2025. in that regard, the eu looks forward to working alongside other parties to reach this objective.
we have set ourselves ambitious eu-wide targets and committed to contributing to efforts to combat climate change globally.
– mr president, honourable members, minister, the climate crisis is here.
water scarcity has crippled the energy generation from hydropower.
temperatures hit hard the cooling for nuclear plants and pushed up energy demand for cooling and energy prices, constituting a burden for consumers and industry and dampening economic recovery.
the most recent assessment of climate science by the intergovernmental panel on climate change, published in 2021 and 2022, confirms that most of the changes now observed in the climate system are related to the increase of greenhouse-gas emissions over the past decades related to human activities.
the scientists are warning that the intensity and frequency of extreme-climate events is set to increase as the climate warms.
the climate law commits the eu and its member states to a duty to adapt with regular reporting, assessment of collective progress and consistency of efforts, with the objective of climate resilience.
in 2021, in the eu adopt adaptation strategy, we have identified areas where progress at eu level on climate resilience is necessary if we are to get ahead of impacts before they do damage.
no doubt the gravity of the climate crisis demands transformational change across all sectors, systems and parts of the society.
in principle, when we prepare european legislation, we are under the obligation to assess whether this impacts negatively on our adaptive capacity or increases our vulnerability to climate change.
all eu funded infrastructure should be climate proof.
project promoters and responsible authorities should make sure that the future climate scenarios are used, vulnerabilities identified, and potential material impacts avoided or minimised.
we launched the work with the european environment agency towards an eu-wide forward-looking risk assessment that should allow us, based on the best science, to identify key risks, key hotspots in europe and table inconvenient yet pressing issues about the fate of certain sectors, relevance of certain policy objectives and necessary interventions.
furthermore, we will launch a dialogue with the insurance, financial sector, real estate or cities, to identify and examine the main reasons behind the widening climate-protection gap and ways to address them.
there are significant european funds already available for financing adaptation to climate change from the common agricultural policy through cohesion policy, recovery funds to life or horizon europe.
the eu mission for adaptation to climate change, launched in september 2021, is putting the eu adaptation strategy in practice on the ground by helping europe’s regions become more resilient to the impacts of climate change.
a call for testing and demonstrating transformative solutions of climate resilience worth eur 88 million is out and will be closed by the end of september.
adaptation to climate change requires local action to better understand the existing and future climate risks; to develop climate-adaptation pathways to be better prepared and cope with the changing climate; to test and deploy on the ground the needed solutions to build resilience.
this is what the mission should offer to 150 regions in the coming years, up to 2030. the other horizon missions on climate-neutral cities, soils and oceans will also include activities in support of building climate resilience across europe.
we need to work with member states, regions and local authorities to build up their capacity, understanding, anticipation and the governance for climate adaptation that is commensurate with amplifying faster climate impacts.
sustainable and climate-resilient management of our water resources will make the eu more resilient to droughts and increasing water stress.
and let me stress in particular also the crucial role of healthy soils in the water cycle, which makes them an indispensable ally for climate adaptation.
therefore, applying specific sustainable-management practices that retain moisture, planting bushes and trees that generate shade and cultivating plants and crops, species and variants adapted to dry climatic conditions can reverse the trend towards desertification and restore soils that are already affected.
copernicus, the eu satellite earth observation programme, represents a key asset in this regard, and this will keep forests resilient, enabling them to perform multiple ecosystem services while meeting market demands.
the commission and member states have invested much time and energy in negotiations for the production launch of new canadair planes, which, however, will become available only between 2026 and 2030. to bridge the gap until the eu rescue fleet is available, faster procurement of firefighting helicopters for the next fire seasons and doubling the rescue transmission fleet with light amphibious aircraft and helicopters was discussed with member states.
we need sustainable, efficient use of water and also new technologies such as the use of treated waste water for irrigation.
so we need to dramatically accelerate our efforts to combat the climate crisis that this drought has caused - yes, it's man-made - to cause.
our commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% by 2030 is not an empty promise, it is a guarantee of life in this european union.
but we must not use european legislation to ensure that we burn more wood to produce energy.
mr president, mr commissioner, at the last plenary session in strasbourg we were here, after the first fire in my country, in the sierra de la culebra in castile and león, with more than 24 000 hectares burned and where the fire-fighting operations were not fully operational, because if they had been, they would have clearly mitigated the economic, social and environmental impacts.
we were discussing this here and i asked you to convene a council of environment ministers.
that is why it must undoubtedly convene a summit of environment ministers to strengthen the european union's competence in firefighting.
europe, and the world, is now experiencing the full extent of the concrete manifestations of climate change.
restoring nature, respecting its resources and enhancing resilience have the merit of really tackling the causes of the mechanisms of climate change head-on.
the conclusion drawn by our ideologues is that we must fight against global warming.
global warming is only when it suits your agenda.
global warming does not explain everything.
you prefer to reopen coal-fired power stations because you have not been able to maintain nuclear power and you believe in energy that is only carbon-free in name.
for wind farms or solar panels, most of which are chinese, you destroy forests which, however, ensure the decrease in temperatures and the maintenance of biodiversity.
let us therefore break with the logic of the european union, which leads to metropolisation, consolidation, excessive trade and the degradation of our soils, which takes advantage of the slightest disaster to advance an unrealistic ecological ideological agenda to the detriment of the environment itself!
climate change is a major problem that affects us all.
before they cause global warming, these fires are caused by the policies that your camp has been advocating for years, the ones that prohibit preventive burning and strategic cuts, for example.
and yet the european left has not learned the lesson: the climate emergency has become an easy pretext to get away with this kind of thing.
it is still the european middle class that has become proletarian, the industries that are barely surviving in this difficult investment climate and the inhabitants of remote territories, forgotten by your policies centred on the metropolises.
extreme weather events are clearly influenced by global warming, but no policy will eliminate them, especially in a europe that is extremely low-polluting compared to the chinese, indian or american giants.
your policy is to ask the european worker, already strangled by the health and energy crisis, to finance the efforts of the entire planet on his own.
in the context of the energy and food crisis, our good old nation states can act to provide this protection for our fellow citizens.
and we are here in this house, in the committees, discussing the reform of the renewable energy directives at what is probably the most complex moment of the energy crisis, caused precisely by russia's illegal and brutal invasion of ukraine.
the work we have tried to do in the agri committee is to take a pragmatic and reasoned approach to the need to diversify, of course, our energy sources but, at the same time, to ensure food security and a healthy management of our land.
i would like to thank the rapporteur very much, once again, for finding a fair compromise between the increasingly urgent need to increase the share of renewable energy in order to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels, whose source we know well, without endangering our agriculture and forestry.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, more renewable energy throughout europe - that is simply what we want.
solar, photovoltaic or thermal energy, wind, marine or hydroelectric energy, biomass as long as it is used to preserve our forests, but also new innovative technologies such as osmotic energy.
we need all these renewable energy sources and that is why my group, renew europe, and i wanted to raise our targets.
in particular, we want to increase the share of renewables in the european energy mix to 45% by 2030 - we are currently at 22%.
because the more we deploy these renewables, the less dependent we will be on russian fossil fuels and the closer we will be to our european climate goals.
finally, i would like to stress the crucial importance of continuing to focus on innovation, but also on guaranteeing the origin of renewable energy while offering affordable prices to consumers and industries.
in fact, i think we need a moratorium of two to five years on the european commission's ambitious climate and energy policy.
not because i'm against climate change, not because i don't want our energy sector to be transformed.
some have been disappointed by the confidence in the safe supply of energy from russia.
therefore, raising the target for renewable energy is simply surreal in the current situation.
indeed, the development of biomass must be accompanied by appropriate environmental protection measures, and it is here that i strongly support the european commission's project in this direction.
we’ll be voting tomorrow on an essential part of the future of our energy sector and i know that the majority of this house will back the outcome we reached in the itre committee, a very balanced one.
we can all agree that the renewable energy directive sets the necessary goals to have a sustainable aim for a secure future as a response to the current crisis, ensure the security of supply, but also reach the green deal targets.
the cornerstones of the amended red directive provide important impetus for the acceptance of renewable energies in europe, for the renewable energy sources, as well as for the expansion of its infrastructure and ultimately boost investments.
the new renewable target of 45% that we will be voting on tomorrow is ambitious but also necessary in the current context.
mr president, dear commissioner, the vote on the renewable energy directive (red) revision is a crucial enabler of sustainable bioenergy and clean hydrogen energy.
without them, our industrial decarbonisation and the objective to reach a 45% share of renewable energy from the sources in the energy mix in 2030 becomes unfeasible.
we must create a predictable and legislative environment that sets ambitions high for sustainable energy production without hindering the deployment of all non-fossil technologies needed for the green transition.
a transition of the renewable energy sources and away from imported fossil fuels is also a smart security policy, as we have seen in the first half of this year.
to this end, we must ensure that the red criteria meet both our sustainable objectives and energy needs and distance ourselves from the black and white debate, especially when it comes to the role of primary wood biomasses.
climate change is rampant, and putin's attack on ukraine shows us that we can no longer, and should no longer, be dependent on putin's gas.
that is why the development of renewable energy is so important.
and renewable energy production, yes, it is local, and it can therefore be made independent of putin's gas, but we have to do it faster than we are doing it today.
we wish we could keep calling ourselves that, but that means not letting the chinese outcompete us in this important industry, and that means all of this requires faster permits for renewable energy development - this applies to water, and this applies to a large extent to land - because in this way we can become independent of putin's gas and at the same time combat climate change.
we kind of argued about the wood for a long time, and we came to a compromise that said, in the end, not every wood burning is equally climate neutral, but that we need to see that we need to look at primary wood biomass in a more critical way, that we need to have the cascade principle.
and, mr pieper, whole logs are also burned in power stations, which is not climate neutral.
we can't do that, because we'll never reach our biodiversity goals.
mr president, commissioner vălean, today we take another step towards europe’s energy independence from fossil fuels.
and today we confirm that all together managed to bring affordability as a key element that guide all our efforts to increase the renewable energy sources share up to 45% by 2030. this stands a great opportunity for my home country, greece, to accelerate even further the efforts for deployment of res, combining this effort with the appropriate infrastructures and development of the grid.
there is an urgency to act fast and in unity tackling the energy crisis with all available means, and tomorrow’s vote – i insist that this piece of legislation... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report.
we are in an energy crisis.
but we cannot solve this energy crisis with nuclear power.
we're not going to get out of this energy crisis with an infinite amount of lng.
we're going to get out of this energy crisis with renewable energy.
but renewable is not necessarily renewable.
the burning of our forests is a very big problem, and it is done under the label of renewable energy.
we are destroying biotopes, we are destroying green lungs, we are destroying carbon sinks.
if we want to get just 2% of the world's energy from wood, we'd have to double the amount of wood we cut.
mr president, the organization of the european energy system and the end of dependence on russian supplies requires a radical acceleration of efforts and a fundamental change in energy supply, production and consumption structures.
the european union needs to formulate a comprehensive strategy on how to manage energy security and independence, while keeping in mind the objective of climate neutrality by providing diverse energy sources, promoting research and digital innovation without fossil fuels, which is an indispensable part of the energy sector value chain.
the renewable energy directive is an instrument for energy independence and will help to strengthen the capacity and efficiency of public authorities in preparing to establish long-term policies and a clear regulatory framework to improve the business environment and stimulate investment in the field of renewable energy deployment, to achieve administrative burden reduction, to build renewables and to deploy technologies in small and medium-sized enterprises.
for 50 years now, however, we have been reluctant to embark on renewable energy because of a lack of political will.
what many of you are proposing today is to continue to burn forests for the climate.
so on the one hand we are committed to preserving carbon sinks and biodiversity, and on the other hand we would continue to subsidize industrial plantations, clear-cutting and an activity that sometimes emits more co2 than coal.
but scientists are adamant that financial incentives from governments to burn forest biomass are worsening the climate crisis.
so let's be consistent and take action for renewable energy.
sailing transport is not a crazy idea, not to recognise it as renewable energy would be!
sail propulsion is the oldest renewable energy used by man.
long neglected, new technological innovations are putting this energy back at the centre of solutions to decarbonise shipping.
it is time for european law to take the right course and to recognise sail propulsion as a renewable energy.
that is why we at renew europe propose to integrate this technology into the renewable energy directive iii.
madam president, mr high representative, unprecedented military exercises around the island of taiwan; the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the eu's new strategy for the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the eu.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, for more than a year now, it has been russia that has been driving up energy prices.
well, thanks to our european energy market.
so to the national assembly and its pro-putin allies, i say this unequivocally: russia is responsible for the energy crisis, not europe.
the truth is that europe is protecting us and will continue to do so in the future, because we will be contributing to the energy giants who are making extraordinary profits in these troubled times: 4 billion for eni, 5 billion for total, 11 billion for shell.
it is not just a question of taking short-term measures to get through the winter, but of embarking on a structural climate revolution.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the energy crisis is only beginning.
a mistake in energy choices, by collapsing the nuclear chain.
more broadly, we pay for your ultra-liberal ideological conception that makes no distinction in value between commodities like water, essential food or energy.
and then, if you had accepted the energy independence options that marine le pen has been proposing for the last 15 years, with nuclear and energy, we would not be here.
madam president, the subject of energy prices is, of course, a primary subject not only for all of us but also for the whole, for all european citizens.
we need to diversify energy sources, diversify suppliers.
the long-term ones are, of course, in closer cooperation in building better energy infrastructure, cooperation in energy stocks and also joint purchasing.
and we also need to talk about the role of gas in electricity price formation, and the discussion should also cover the price stagnation of energy and specifically gas.
last but not least, it's important to talk about energy savings and also about the extraordinary revenues of energy companies and redistribute them to those who really need it.
madam president, commissioner, mr minister, the manipulation of energy supplies and prices is a powerful weapon which the russian federation has not refrained from using in its aggression against the freedom and sovereignty of peoples.
we need measures that have immediate effect but do not deviate from the current energy transition.
portugal is one of the leading countries in incorporating renewables into its energy mix.
it opened up access to the regulated electricity market for citizens and businesses and created the regulated gas market, committing the large energy companies to the collective effort, without ruling out taxation on windfall profits, if warranted.
we need to act on energy production and access, but also make markets more resilient and transparent.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission has taken the right direction, firstly on energy reserves, particularly gas, and of course on gas and electricity prices.
the main negative effect of the energy crisis is called deindustrialization or at least risk.
producing outside europe is convenient because energy costs are much lower.
that is why, alongside energy policy, we are calling for action on the ets market, which is an unbearable burden for the energy-intensive industry and therefore a decisive factor in generating potential further job losses.
to tackle it by proposing a sustainable framework on taxation of superprofits and not limiting it to energy issues only.
we are indeed facing at this moment, i think, two monumental crises: the energy crisis and the inflationary trend, which is very persistent.
as for the energy crisis: we must dare to admit today that we have done a great deal of this ourselves.
three elements: europe and certainly some of its major member states have for decades built an economic order on the availability of cheap russian gas; the development towards sustainable energy production, which is obviously necessary, is clearly underestimated in terms of its problems; given the two preceding elements, it would be logical to rely more on nuclear energy, something which is still stubbornly rejected by certain political groups.
finally, our closest neighbours, the western balkan countries, have also faced serious difficulties: skyrocketing energy prices and terrible drought.
there are several key pillars on which we need to work, for example, diversifying our energy suppliers: as we are seeing, this is key to ensuring our autonomy, new suppliers with shorter and more reliable supply routes for our companies.
the threats posed by the pandemic and the russian invasion of ukraine have an impact on both sides of the mediterranean: we face an unprecedented energy crisis, and the countries of the southern neighbourhood, a food crisis.
in the energy sector, the war is affecting global energy markets, tightening the energy prices, raising concerns over our security of supply as well.
repowereu is our plan to phase out russian fossil energy imports through diversification and fostering international partnerships, including with the mediterranean region on lng, natural gas and ramping up the production of green energy sources and green hydrogen.
europe needs long-term, predictable energy sources like egypt or israel.
we just signed a landmark trilateral energy agreement with egypt and israel, who are long term and reliable partners, to ensure energy security and diversification of supply for europe.
we are heavily engaged in morocco with the king mohammed, the sixth strategic investment fund, to support co-investments for large scale projects, for instance, in sustainable agriculture or green transition.
in terms of larger infrastructure projects, we’re working on waste programmes for jordan, as well as a desalination programme, in particular, the aqaba-amman water conveyor is of strategic importance.
ten years after the arab spring, the challenges are enormous in terms of democratic development, economic and human development, governance, security, respect for human rights, to which are added, of course, the challenges of climate change, migration and, now, the energy issue.
second, strengthening strategies to fight poverty which involve the recognition of socio-economic challenges, climate change, access to resources for all.
fourthly, promoting environmental protection and supporting the people directly affected by these changes.
for the greens/efa group madam president, our region, the euro-mediterranean, is experiencing a resurgence of authoritarianism and international violence, while suffering the increasingly severe effects of climate change.
mr president, this cross-disciplinary initiative provides a welcome opportunity to combine our climate and digital goals with the benefits of creative design and to foster rural and urban developments that improve citizens’ everyday lives.
modernising buildings to ensure they are more sustainable and efficient is fundamental to reaching the eu’s climate and energy goals.
when managing the implementation of the initiative the commission should ensure that all projects are consistent with the eu’s green and digital climate as they contribute to creating new jobs and business opportunities, and in local areas, and, importantly, that citizens’ perspectives are incorporated into the process.
as the objective of new european bauhaus is to create a positive living environment for european citizens, it is essential that citizens themselves have their say in how this programme is implemented.
behind this overly complicated name, there is a beautiful idea for our citizens, that of putting art, culture, design and above all the human being at the heart of the energy transition and the european green deal.
today we are hearing their dangerous proposals again because war - and i say war, not sanctions - war has increasingly direct consequences for the daily lives of our fellow citizens, for the price of energy, for the quantity of food, and perhaps tomorrow for the number of jobs available in europe.
we support you first on the first front, the energy front.
my group is in favour of a european energy shield to reduce energy bills and i think we can even count on two types of european solidarity.
the first type of european solidarity is solidarity with citizens and our smes, using the income of energy producers and placing a ceiling on gas imports.
the second type of solidarity is solidarity between member states and our neighbours, by buying energy together, exchanging surpluses, investing more in renewable energy and energy-efficient renovation of buildings.
this sovereignty is the key to guaranteeing equality, fairness and the quality of life of our fellow europeans, economic growth, the ecological transition and also our place in the world.
the environmental transition, economic resilience, and the democratic model.
and i'll tell you, these people, there are millions of them, millions of them who can't cope with the skyrocketing prices, which are not limited to the energy sector alone.
and there are many, multinational companies that have made super profits, not just in the energy sector, it should be said here.
the same is true in the energy market.
so again, in the face of the failure of this model, you open the door to a blockage - temporary of course - of the revenues of the energy companies, while still leaving huge margins to these companies, sometimes they have not been sufficiently poor.
we must keep prices at the pre-crisis level and take energy out of the market, because it is a common good like water, health, nature and everything we need to live.
and in terms of climate, which you've talked so little about today, you can't say that's what's suffocating you.
if the state of energy emergency is to be declared today, war is no stranger to it.
you claimed to be protecting the environment, but you imported american shale gas with a lot of methane.
the reduction in vat on energy, the return to a healthy control of prices by leaving the european electricity market, the taxation of superprofits and the unwavering support for the nuclear sector are all essential measures to prevent us from returning to the economic stone age.
madam president, madam president of the european commission, well, difficult moments in europe indeed: how to continue helping ukraine and at the same time how to mitigate the energy crisis in europe?
households are struggling to pay the energy bills.
madam president, the efforts we are going to have to make, the ecological transition we are going to have to make, require resources.
in closing, i would like to say that the visionaries we were 40 years ago are calling you to hear today that hydrogen is not the magic formula to solve our energy problems.
first of all, we must think about fair competition and the development of renewable energies in a decentralised way.
madam president, the crisis we are experiencing requires us all to return to reality, particularly in the field of energy, to get rid of our dependencies, to protect the environment, we are no longer entitled to illusions.
the energy produced and exported by neighbouring sweden is 50% less carbonated thanks to nuclear power.
it's not just about energy.
moreover, as you yourself have acknowledged, the energy market is not working.
so, without the absurd european rules, electricity would not have increased as much as gas and the energy crisis could have been cushioned by a price freeze by the states.
so stop hiding behind others, draw all the conclusions from the analysis of your failures by drawing the energy out of the market, blocking prices and taxing superprofits.
the russian aggression against ukraine, the consequences of the coronavirus pandemic, rising energy prices or food insecurity are just some of the challenges we face and to which the eu needs to provide more concrete and practical solutions.
president von der leyen's speech shed a good deal of light on the pressing challenges facing europe and the world today, with the war in ukraine and the energy crisis, the price gouging and inflation, climate change and the threat to human rights, international law and the fundamental commitments on which the eu is built, at the forefront.
i would also stress the importance of the cyclical and structural reform of energy markets and the proposal to set up a european hydrogen bank.
i think this is a good day for europe's energy transition.
in the end, what happens and what is decided in the council every month, which is becoming increasingly important for the european union - for example on the energy issue at the moment - are decisions that concern our sovereignty to all of us.
third, the european union is working with partners around the world to counter russian disinformation, raising awareness that it is russia’s aggression, not western sanctions, which is aggravating the food and energy crisis.
it is therefore important that we assess all projects and their consequences in terms of their impact on the population and the environment, and i believe that this resolution will contribute to this objective.
all around the world, we experience the pure brutality of the ongoing climate crisis.
and we all know this is because of our destruction of the world’s climates and environment.
and yet in uganda and tanzania, big companies like to say that they plan to construct the longest heated pipeline in the world that would additionally emit 34 million tons of carbon to our atmosphere every year, affecting more than 100 000 people and put severe risks on one of the most diverse ecosystems in the world.
oil export will not solve energy poverty.
madam president, the east african oil pipeline is yet another example of how the new european colonialism extracts benefits while externalizing the human and ecological costs.
another flagrant case of plundering the natural resources of an african country and violating the environmental and social rights of a people.
in 2021, the international energy agency warned that to avoid the most destructive effects of the climate crisis, the development of new oil and gas fields needed to be stopped immediately.
the climate crisis we face may be one of the greatest challenges and dangers we have as a society.
it is essential to put an end to european neocolonial and extractivist policies in african countries such as uganda and tanzania, which not only have a high environmental cost but also a high social cost, because there is no planet b. the profits of multinationals can never be worth more than people's lives.
behind this project, we have a company, which is a european company called total energy.
so, of course, total energy is complicit in what's going on and what we've seen on the ground is simply unacceptable.
the atrocities in ukraine, the climate chaos, european values, human rights and of course the absolute need to move away from fossil fuels.
it is the violation of human rights, it is the destruction of the climate, the destruction of biodiversity.
and there is an oil group that is the opposite of everything we have said this morning: it is total energy.
total energy complicit in war crimes in ukraine.
total energy complicit in human rights violations in uganda and tanzania.
total energy guilty of environmental crimes.
this parliament and the european commission must demand that france, its president and its government cease all diplomatic, political, financial and military aid to total energy in uganda and tanzania.
total energy must emerge from impunity and irresponsibility.
we are responsible for it and we are responsible for the climate.
the transport of crude oil by pipeline across uganda and tanzania to the sea is a threat to the environment.
fifteen banks have refused to finance the $3 billion project because of environmental concerns.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the situation is simple: to meet our climate commitments, we must leave fossil fuels in the ground.
the project we are discussing today will not only result in the emission of 33 million tonnes of co2, twice the cumulative emissions of uganda and tanzania, but will also risk the pollution of lake albert and will cross 16 supposedly protected nature reserves, home to almost a thousand species such as rothschild's giraffes, elephants and hippos.
this project is the work of total energy, one of the only companies with european status and the 17th largest polluter in the world.
total energy, whose deployment strategy aims to produce 47% more oil and gas by 2030 - more - than at the time of the paris agreement.
a strategy that 15 communities have joined together against, not activists, not ngos, but communities who brought total and its climate bombs to justice.
total is about to commit one of the greatest human and environmental crimes in our history with its plans to drill 400 oil wells in ugandan nature reserves and build a pipeline heated to 50 degrees.
tens of thousands of people have already been thrown on the roads so that total can plant this new climate bomb to satisfy the thirst of a few shareholders.
politics, if it is to meet the expectations of citizens in terms of security, of combating the deterioration of the climate and our living conditions, of preserving our freedoms and values, will not succeed without taking account of the currents of thought which must be able to express themselves freely.
i am glad that the european parliament will call for developing a more resilient, sustainable and also efficient single market that can better tackle supply disruptions on critical products such as food or pharmaceuticals.
a resilient single market prevents over—dependency in energy and raw materials.
we also underline the need to accelerate the green and the digital transition and we highlight the importance of public procurement which reflects economic, social and environmental considerations to support the twin transition.
some of the commission's actions are in the right direction, particularly with regard to semiconductors and energy, especially as our industry is beginning to slow down production to save energy.
we are stronger together, and together we must build a europe of health that is united, coordinated, independent and sustainable.
a sustainable europe of health, with the creation of an independent scientific council, the introduction of provisions on the absence of conflicts of interest of experts, the consultation of all other stakeholders (non-governmental organisations, health professionals, etc.)
you care about serious crossborder health threats: start by putting borders back in place - this is a first prevention - and make sure that the european union doesn't waste its time relocating the pharmaceutical industry.
health should no longer be seen as a cost, but as a sustainable investment in the well-being and better living of european citizens.
it is urgent: all the extreme weather events we know of are fuelled by the warming of the deep ocean - a direct consequence of global warming, with sea level rise and acidification.
regenerating this 'hydrosphere' - the oceans, seas and rivers - as the starfish mission calls it, requires converging all european policies - biodiversity, climate, energy, transport, water, waste treatment - and better coordinating governance.
as we explore the ocean, we discover all its riches for humanity: a reservoir of multiple resources - energy, genetic, mineral - the same ones that are dwindling on earth.
the movement of the major international conferences in 2022 is aimed at providing a framework: a sustainable future with the ocean, and the european union and the member states are negotiating the future of the planet.
whales (and their poop) are crucial to the ecosystem and indispensable in the fight against climate change.
some would like to protect life and the environment by increasing the constraints on those who work at sea, especially in our european countries, to the point of making any human effort connected with the sea and the ocean impossible.
this is not to understand that the main environmental challenge today is not to over-regulate the activities of european professionals - who already meet the highest standards in the world - but to ensure that other world powers share our common responsibility.
the text needs to reaffirm the imperative of fighting illegal fishing worldwide, the need to implement a determined plan against plastic pollution and to advance research on the still largely unknown world of the ocean.
in the end, we will not get out of the environmental challenge with less effort and work.
the health of the oceans and their biodiversity is essential to life, we already know, as well as to the long-term sustainability of the different sectors of the blue economy.
from contributing to the food security of millions of people, to providing renewable energy and mineral resources, to creating jobs in coastal communities, the oceans are a source of life and also of immense wealth.
in conclusion, this means that there must also be a continuous effort to ensure that the conservation and management measures adopted under the various regional conventions are as close as possible to the ambitious objectives of the common fisheries policy, as a way of extending the language of ocean sustainability to all latitudes.
it started in brest with the one ocean summit, it continued in lisbon with the united nations conference, we can talk about sharm el-sheikh too, and then the cop-15 that will be held in canada on biodiversity, all of these elements that come together to make the year 2022 a great year of the ocean.
despite these words from the secretary-general of the united nations, we are doing too little to address the climate crisis, the crisis of life that is hitting the oceans.
but scientists warn that this activity will cause irreversible damage to the functioning of marine ecosystems for generations to come and will worsen the climate crisis.
this requires a political will that is sustainable.
it is restoring an ecosystem, it is really caring for our environment and nature to bring this absolutely necessary debate to the table.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, sustainable aquaculture is aquaculture that respects the environment, human health and food safety.
sustainability is achieved through the promotion of low-impact, circular practices such as low-trophic, multi-trophic and organic aquaculture.
sustainable aquaculture is one that ensures that the production of feed does not have a negative impact on the food security of third countries.
let us invest in research, including with the money from the emff, and in helping those involved in the sector, instead of hunting down the species, which would have very serious consequences for biodiversity.
european countries have become accustomed to cheap fish, to buying fish from third countries, but so has energy, and we are now paying for that recklessness.
- the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97).
as in land-based mega-stables, the crowding together of large numbers of animals in fish farms leads to environmental pollution, disease and overuse of antibiotics.
fish farming is also far from sustainable.
a spanish company even wants to open the world's first-ever octopus farm next year: a disaster for animal welfare and an environmental disaster, scientists warn.
but despite all these disastrous effects on man, animals and the environment, here in strasbourg we are advocating a strong growth in the number of fish farms in europe.
the fight for sustainable and competitive aquaculture in the european union is the way forward.
aquaculture provides consumers with sustainable and high-quality products.
but truly sustainable forms of aquaculture are rare.
aquaculture is not sustainable when, to feed carnivorous species, fish meal is imported, which endangers the food security of several african countries.
aquaculture is not sustainable when it threatens fishermen and marine ecosystems in the middle of natura 2000 sites, as is the case with the mega aquaculture farm in golfe-juan.
it is not sustainable when animals are crowded into it by the hundreds, with no density limit, forced to behave against their nature.
it is not sustainable when it uses painful killing techniques such as asphyxiation or ice casting, when alternatives exist.
and finally, aquaculture is not sustainable, it's cruel when it plans to raise octopuses, such sensitive and intelligent creatures.
of course, it is important to use sustainable feed ingredients in eu aquaculture.
this is an important aspect of the environmental performance of aquaculture, as mentioned in the commission’s strategic guidelines.
these guidelines propose the development of a guidance document on environmental performance that includes the mapping of good practices at government and industry level.
it should also cover the use of sustainable feed.
the message is clear: by implementing the commission’s strategic guidelines, we have a unique opportunity to promote the sustainable growth and competitiveness of eu aquaculture and maximise its contribution towards making the european green deal a success.
i therefore welcome these aspects and this campaign, which i hope will also promote sustainable aquaculture products, because it is really worthwhile.
i want it to be competitive, to be more sustainable.
i thank the rapporteur for a resolution that properly addresses the various aspects, although in my view the environmental impact of the production of cryptocurrencies, which requires a significant amount of energy and therefore carbon emissions to carry out the control and encryption of data, should also be taken into account in the definition of an updated tax framework.
just think, for example, that the bitcoin blockchain consumes more energy in a year than italy.
the creation of a clear and transparent regulatory framework with fair taxation, which also takes into account the environmental impact of blockchain activity and ensures fair competition between companies, especially protecting the smaller ones, is therefore a good thing.
the creator of terra, the famous stable coin, who was the pride of the crypto ecosystem, as it is called, who is also wanted today by the police, his stable coin self-destructed in just 24 hours.
there is a large european union fleet operating in this part of the world that is a world champion in sustainability and that also provides high quality nutritious fish protein to european union consumers, while bringing socioeconomic benefits to european union businesses and coastal communities, and contributing to the local economy and sustainable development of the fisheries sector in the area.
the strategic importance of the european union's presence in third countries is therefore multifaceted: it benefits eu operators and consumers as well as sustainability and good governance of the oceans.
ensuring a level playing field, while promoting the eu's strong sustainability standards in regional fisheries management organisations and other international fora, is crucial for our operators and for improving international ocean governance.
but when you look at what has happened with the commission's implementing act closing down 87 areas, overstepping its powers and failing to take account of socioeconomic aspects in addition to environmental aspects, it is easy to see why we are more and more sceptical about giving the commission power.
in our capitalist system, overconsumption is encouraged, without limit: 57 million tons of e-waste in 2021, a large majority of which is not recycled.
what i would like to say is that this charger should not be the tree that hides the forest from the potential ecological disaster of the digital economic model as it is designed today.
we will have to design a sustainable digital future in the coming weeks and months, which is not the case today.
under this visible part, there is the enormity of the invisible, of what this digital, today, threatens with respect to the environment, but also the right to work and our fundamental freedoms.
i hope that the european union will be innovative in designing a digital economic model that preserves the environment and, thank god, let's not take another fifteen years to solve this problem, we don't have time to wait that long!
pmr standards must be an important part of the design of objects, transport planning, public procurement rules and environmental risks.
the european union, which has among the highest standards of environmental protection and welfare, has a role to play as a teacher and promoter in relation to third countries.
the first challenge, of course, is to preserve our biodiversity, and while the sixth mass extinction has already begun, species are dying off at an alarming rate.
mr president, sharks are essential to the ecosystem in our seas and oceans.
another question on whether the eu position on the cites scope is consistent with the biodiversity strategy.
so in such cases, the eu is committed to supporting range states to address the concerns in other ways, using tools that are better adapted than those under cites, such as, for example, naturafrica – an extensive initiative that will support biodiversity conservation in africa.
permit issuance relies on the positive opinion of the scientific review group, which is mandated to ensure that inputs of listed species are kept at a sustainable level and will not deplete the species’ population.
so to conclude on this, wildlife trafficking remains a worrying – a very worrying, i would say – global phenomenon, with wide-ranging ecological and socioeconomic impacts.
this is where cohesion policy must also be applied, through the provision of basic public goods, and i am of course not only talking about water, sanitation and waste treatment, but also about the internet, health services, education services and also some cultural dimension, in order to create conditions in which a young family feels able to locate itself, to choose its location, often benefiting from a better quality of the environment and from conditions of safety and quality of life in general, much more suitable for the education of children and the establishment of a young family, without the excessive costs of the agglomeration of the large centres.
because, in fact, when we do trade policy, when we do agricultural policy, when we establish an industrial policy or even energy or digital plans, space, geography matters.
also, these big, big centres are starting not to deliver what they could deliver in terms of contribution to development because they are somehow cornered by the amount of problems that agglomeration creates, from environmental problems to inefficiency in the management of the whole city.
we have in fact introduced this concern of 'do no harm to the environment' into the texts alongside (i will say in english because it has become known as such) 'do no harm to cohesion', so as not to damage cohesion, because we also make this kind of pre-approach to the environment.
do you think we should create a special program, a special line of funding, to create a friendly environment for these older people, not just in terms of digital competence, but in terms of accessibility, accessibility of health care, all these areas that are extremely important from the point of view of the elderly?
but probably you can spot across the territory where there is still sufficient capacity to anchor these kind of initiatives, these kind of projects, and make sure that when you define your horizontal policies that you locate in those areas the critical elements that can create this kind of environment on which a young person, a young couple can raise a family, can locate, can find a job, and can have a better life.
and now we see that the hyper-concentration of population in those areas kind of limits the capacity of these areas, these developed areas, to jump into innovation, new technologies, more sophisticated areas of value-added, because they are still faced with combating the pockets of poverty in the inner cities, the agglomerations around them and the traffic that this generates, addressing the pollution that it creates and the terrible quality of life of the people that really were kind of pushed out of their natural areas and that concentrate, creating all sorts of problems in security terms, poverty, disenchantment and often even political problems.
i welcome the work that the european commission has done on the new sustainable urban mobility framework, but i would like us to broaden the focus not only to urban areas, but also to rural areas.
and finally, what measures does the commission intend to take to ensure that the work on sustainable urban mobility can also contribute to the fight against depopulation in the european union?
i fully agree with what you have said about the balance between regions, the role of communications and in particular sustainability, and mobility in urban areas, not only in large cities but also in small centres.
it is true that the current cohesion policy funds sustainable media, in terms of climate impact, and that this can simplify the operation of smaller urban centres.
there is also a problem of financial sustainability which sometimes prevents the introduction of more modern and more sustainable media in very small rural areas.
we must therefore work not only on infrastructure, in terms of technological choice, but also on how to articulate a system that is sustainable in terms of funding for small populations, small cores.
but i think that's why it's important that there is a fund, like the erdf funds, that can ensure that the primary investment is a co-financed investment - and co-financed in a rather interesting way - that reduces the need for financial sustainability, which would be a serious problem for many of the small towns or small cities.
this includes agriculture, rural mobility, tourism, energy, care for the elderly in rural areas, e-health.
in the face of rampant inflation in the european union, high energy prices caused by the european union's energy dependence on russia and the war in ukraine, you are constantly dealing with hungary month after month.
it was germany that made the eu's energy policy dependent on gazprom... (the president cut off the speaker)
i would ask the visitors to the gallery not to clap.
council, commissioner, don’t waste it, do more, do better and ask more from orbán.
the war and misguided european sanctions have sent energy prices soaring, inflation soaring, unemployment soaring and a severe economic recession looming.
i do not blame you for seeking to reduce europe's energy dependence on one particular power.
in djibo, at least 200,000 residents are under jihadist pressure, deprived of water, energy, food and healthcare.
madam president, madam commissioner, after the violence of this summer's drought and in the face of the devastating effects of climate change, one of the fundamental questions facing us today is how europe will cope with the next water shortages, and, above all, how we can protect our citizens from the high risk of a water war.
first, europe must act, because we are collectively responsible for this climate change.
finally, we must change our lifestyles: less waste, more solidarity.
a violent reality, largely caused by the climate crisis and pollution.
this is in the sole interest of the citizens of europe, to whom you will have to give an account, madam president, of your disastrous management of our energy resources.
we must do everything we can to bring the exploding energy prices under control.
i welcome the emergency measures decided by the energy ministers.
he's left with the economic bargaining chip, with energy as a weapon of war, and the nuclear threat as a psychological weapon.
ladies and gentlemen, this obviously comes at a cost to the citizens, whom we must protect in the face of the energy crisis and food insecurity.
let us commit ourselves to green energy and implement the agreement on food security reached at the wto last june.
i also very much appreciate statements of the commission on the energy.
we need that same unity, cooperation and solidarity in tackling the energy crisis.
and that everything that is happening with the energy crisis today is not the consequence of the war, but the consequence of the sanctions and the measures we are taking.
the digital ecosystem of the european union needs to be improved by including sanctions against the perpetrators and implementers of malicious disinformation operations.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to be answered, tabled by mr bernd lange on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the results of the commission's review of the 15-point action plan on trade and sustainable development (o-000029/0022 - b9-0021/2022) (2022/2692 ((rsp)).
trade policy should contribute to strengthening sustainable development.
sometimes nature suffers, and the goals of the paris agreement on climate change are not being achieved.
that's why it's so important that we put trade policy in the right corset, so that we can make it clear: trade is not an end in itself, trade has to promote sustainability.
we concluded the first trade agreement with a dedicated sustainability chapter in 2011 the agreement with south korea.
since then, we have concluded 12 other agreements - with canada and many other countries - which also include sustainability chapters, with strengths and weaknesses.
we have agreed in these chapters that international standards are to be accepted - the un environmental standards, the ilo nuclear work standards - that there must be no undermining of these standards for competitive advantage.
i myself once presented a model chapter for a different approach in the sustainability chapter in 2017. so now we're on the right track with a sensible approach to implementing sustainability goals through a roadmap with clear interim targets.
and we also need sustainability beyond the original range, especially when it comes to raw materials.
trade policy without sustainability is like a car without a steering wheel, and it can go dangerously wrong.
that's why we need clear and rigorous sustainability goals.
– mr president, honourable members, the commission promised that trade policy would play a greater role in supporting our sustainability agenda, and we delivered on that promise in june by adopting our new approach to enhance the contribution of eu trade agreements to trade sustainable development (tsd).
the commission believes the outcome strikes the right balance between our sustainability ambitions and the new geopolitical reality between supporting economic growth and promoting values.
these would include identifying country-specific sustainability priorities and strengthening eu domestic advisory groups (dags).
beyond tsd chapters, it is important to mainstream sustainability in every section of trade deals.
we should also identify sustainability priorities, even before negotiations begin, including through our sustainability impact assessments.
i would also like to mention the concerns you raised regarding possible violations of human and environmental rights in relation to access to raw materials.
the commission believes that access to raw materials and energy can be done in a way that respects human rights, labour rights and the protection of the environment, but also benefits local communities in third countries, to ensure that we have specific commitments in our ftas on the respect of multilateral labour and environmental standards, but also dispute settlement mechanisms which will address and include sanctions in a satisfactory way.
international trade is an engine for growth, for jobs, and the promoter for sustainability.
rooted in international commitments, the eu tsd chapters seek to keep borders open for trade, while pushing for high sustainability standards in third countries.
few instruments can better represent the principles and values of the european union's trade policy than this 15-point review of the action plan on trade and sustainable development.
we therefore want stricter implementation and enforcement to ensure the effectiveness of the strategy and, consequently, we advocate greater participation and complaint capacity of civil society and advisory groups, as well as greater parliamentary scrutiny, especially as regards the way trade agreements are evolving and in relation to the implementation of the sustainable development clauses.
this will help to make our action on climate change and biodiversity loss, on deforestation, on due diligence and decent work, and on moving towards the circular economy and energy transition more effective.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with the reform of the sustainable development chapters, the european union will finally use the potential of trade agreements.
but now it is necessary that this part on sustainable development chapters should become a reference.
there is a lot more to it than words and despite some façade voluntarism, despite some progress, i think the commission does not fully respond to the criticisms about the ineffectiveness of the clauses on trade and sustainable development.
first, there is a first point, which is that the impact of global trade, of intensifying trade on the climate still remains an unthinking one in our debates.
that's almost a quarter of greenhouse gas emissions.
in fact, commercial activism always trumps social and environmental considerations, which explains the enthusiasm for the new zealand agreement, when it is a country at the opposite end of europe, the enthusiasm for mercosur, when it encourages the destruction of the amazon rainforest.
whether it's environmental protection or social and human rights.
trade is the most powerful instrument we have in our foreign policy, and yet it is only too evident that we are demanding the efforts we are asking of ourselves, our industry and our people - in the field of climate, but of course also human rights, labour rights - that we are also enforcing in our trade policy.
mr president, i need to thank executive vice-president valdis dombrovskis for really bringing this new approach to sustainable development in free trade agreements.
trade is to be connected, integrated and incorporated into the requirements of sustainable development.
an important element there is that the eu delegations must be very open to civil society and other stakeholders in order to get them on board with discussing how free trade agreements are actually implemented and the new requirements on more enforceable, sustainable development.
what are the pathways to include the new sustainable development approach in existing free trade agreements?
however, diversification should not come at the expense of other eu policy goals that ensure that producers and trading countries abide by environmental and labour standards similar to those standards, that producers within the eu follow progressive labour and social rights globally, and that protect the commercial activity of businesses within the eu.
for this reason, i welcome the commission’s additional sanctions, using its trade toolbox for enforcing labour, environmental and human rights standards.
sustainability objectives should not undermine the negotiability of our trade agreements.
it must serve a greater purpose than itself, starting with sustainable development.
you're not meeting your commitments to reduce emissions, you're violating trade union freedoms, we're reinstating tariffs.
but we must go further, for example by inserting mirror clauses in all our agreements to encourage the adoption of our agricultural standards, to put an end to unfair competition and to ground our ecological professions of faith in facts.
as mr guterres said, this is 'climate carnage'.
while pakistan emits 1% of greenhouse gases, the g20 emits 80%.
yet pakistan is the first to suffer from climate change.
dear colleagues, climate change is turning into an invincible disaster that is punishing humanity more and more severely.
for the greens/efa group mr. president, why are my people paying the price of global warming?
while pakistan accounts for 0.3% of the world's cumulative co2 emissions, it is one of the states most affected by the effects of climate change.
the floods that have hit the country are a climate carnage: 1,500 dead, 33 million people affected without shelter, access to water or food , 7.6 million displaced people and a high risk of waterborne diseases and epidemics such as cholera, diarrhoea, dengue and malaria.
we are responsible for global warming and its consequences.
so this disaster must also make us question whether we can take global action in the long term: increase our support for adaptation and prevention policies, set up a protective framework for climate displaced people, adopt an effective mechanism for loss and damage at international level, as the southern states are asking for in the climate negotiations.
i would then like to stress that while climate change is naturally an urgent issue, its effects will only be felt in the medium and long term.
we must work to prevent major climate risks.
i hope that the european union will make ecological expertise a priority in its efforts to deal with major environmental risks.
this debate has highlighted how humanitarian needs and climate change are connected.
the european union is the world’s biggest donor of climate finance to developing countries, and we will continue to scale up our support.
the european union and member states support many activities to avert, minimise and address loss and damage via development cooperation, disaster risk reduction and humanitarian aid, as well as for dedicated climate finance organisations and initiatives inside and outside the united nations framework convention on climate change regime.
we need more donors to contribute to climate action.
the european union alone will not solve the climate crisis.
these conclusions will not only reaffirm our commitments within the sendai framework, in particular as regards international cooperation in the context of fragility of climate, but also will set an agenda for the future.
the next item is the debate on the question with request for an oral answer to the commission entitled 'an eu approach to space traffic management: an eu contribution to tackling a global challenge', tabled by cristian-silviu buşoi, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-000035/2022 - b9-0022/22) (2022/2641 ((rsp)).
to develop new space programmes, a sustainable approach is needed and space traffic management is one of the necessary tools.
crowded because the volume of debris and the number of satellites have been increasingly exponentially, and with them the risk of in-orbit collisions and the direct risk to the safety of orbital traffic and the sustainability of space.
initiatives and programmes in areas such as connectivity, tracking and positioning, which are key to sustainability, security and shared management of the geospatial territory.
space traffic management contributes to ensuring the safety, reliable and autonomous access to and long-term sustainability of outer space and to promoting and ensuring the continuity and competitiveness of the space industry in the european union.
the solutions are there to make space more sustainable.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the rise of modern agriculture has built its success on three pillars: mechanisation, pesticides and synthetic fertilisers, with total disregard for the impact of these practices on climate, biodiversity and health.
the war in ukraine exacerbates this situation, with speculation in basic foodstuffs and soaring energy prices, as the prices of these pesticides and synthetic fertilizers are closely correlated with those of energy, from which they are directly derived.
this is why environmentalists, unlike the conservatives, who refuse to face the real impasse in which these 'old-fashioned' logics find themselves, consider it urgent not to delay the objectives, ambitions and trajectory of the 'farm to fork' strategy, particularly as regards the dosage of fertilisers, a necessary bifurcation if we want to meet the challenges of climate, biodiversity and health, but also ensure decent incomes for farmers and sustainable food sovereignty.
the return to reality is painful: production costs and the energy crisis keep the price of fertilisers at a very high level.
fertilizers are therefore essential, because without them there is no viable and sustainable food chain in our union.
this is a real health emergency plan: we have learned the lessons of the health crisis and have decided to build a health europe that is solidary, coordinated, independent and sustainable.
finally, in terms of sustainability, the involvement of regional authorities should foster cooperation in cross-border regions.
between food prices and soaring energy prices, more and more households are tightening their belts.
here in the european parliament we are currently awaiting the proposal that the european commission should make to respond to the increase in energy prices.
but when it comes to capping the prices of energy and basic necessities, capping the profits of multinationals, there is no one left.
capping energy prices will have a real impact on people's lives.
while energy companies are making huge profits, people are turning off the heat in their homes.
the present energy crisis must not be used to lower the targets.
will climate and environmental policies harm the poorest and make poverty worse?
do you know who is on the front line today in the face of climate change?
who were the first to die from coal pollution?
first, it's a human waste, but it's also an economic waste.
i also heard that there would be a kind of choice between fighting climate change on the one hand and fighting poverty on the other.
we also recommend to advance with the introduction of legislative and other safeguards to improve the working environment of journalists, including on access to official documents, taking into account european standards on the protection of journalists.
they found, and i quote: ‘the state of malta should bear responsibility for the assassination by creating a climate of impunity generated from the highest level, which led to the collapse of rule of law.’ quote end.
the context is always the same – courageous journalists who are investigating corruption cases linked to high—level individuals in government, construction industry, shipping, energy supply, golden visas – the common thing behind these attacks is always the link between criminal organisations, politicians and bribery.
your virtuous proposals for environmental regulation will only be credible if, at the same time, you have the lucidity to revise your globalist software, which is by nature ecocide.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, these amendments to the regulation to introduce renewable and alternative fuels in maritime transport are very important for our outermost regions, since they are only connected to the continent and to each other by sea or air.
carbon neutrality, yes, but only if it is coupled with purchasing power neutrality.
my dear colleagues, thanks to green investments, we will have the opportunity tomorrow to invest in our overseas countries, in their port facilities and in their ecological transition.
as the energy crisis worsens by the day, you have chosen your ideology over the salvation of europeans.
this text is an opportunity to achieve our climate goals.
we need to expand the scope so that it covers almost all emissions and we can test solutions on the smallest boats.
we need to include an additional sub-target for the use of alternative fuels of non-biological origin: 6% by 2035. finally, we must set a target of 100 per cent, instead of 80 per cent, of greenhouse gas emissions reduction by 2050. i invite you to visit the exhibition proposed by pierre karleskind in the emilio colombo space, which will teach you much more about the propulsion of the sails.
it's really renewable.
projects that already today offer the transport of goods in the same timeframe, at the same speed, for the same amount and with greenhouse gas emissions and consumption gains of 45% - 45%, means less fuel and less emissions, means more profits, means more investments and also means more investments for other alternative fuels.
the guidelines we are proposing and the european semester cycle are a combination of good economic governance and a fairer, more sustainable recovery that accompanies the green and digital transitions.
it is the ecological transition that creates more and new jobs.
almost every year the brussels institutions waste their time in drawing up these non-binding guidelines, just to give guidance on matters which, in general, do not even fall within their competence.
and when it comes to the digital and environmental transition, our human capital must be at the heart of all our action.
the present situation requires that we bury the policies of the past once and for all and tackle without complexity the policies of protection, redistribution and ecological transition.
so there are six issues that i think are urgent: reforming the way our electricity market works, yes, reforming it and decreeing a ban on supply cuts; taxing the extraordinary profits of companies and not just electricity companies; establishing a moratorium on evictions - no one should be left on the street this winter; containing the effects of the rise in rates, particularly on the explosion in the price of variable mortgages; ensuring a shopping basket affordable for the whole population; and, finally, setting up - yes - a new fund for the ecological transition and social protection, as proposed by commissioner gentiloni, among others.
today, bold and rapid market interventions are needed to protect consumers from the negative effects of high energy prices.
the whole of the union's energy and climate policy must be reviewed and changed.
meanwhile, this commission, in its high-profile climate and energy projects, has ignored the political reality, as if there were no china and no russia.
but as long as the taxation you propose is limited to the energy sector and postponed until next year, the step forward will be really only a very small toe.
the energy crisis has not been addressed as it should have been.
the energy pool has been blocked.
olaf lends macron energy, but the same macron is then the problem, why there are no pipeline connections from spain to france, we demand socialism, we demand the energy transition ... i think we should really come together and say that the only solution to these problems is that we need a common europe.
without a deep european energy market, none of the proposed solutions will be realistic in any way - neither common taxation, nor strengthening the supply - because we know that we need the lng terminals in spain to have lng in germany, because we know that we need a deep electricity market.
as vladimir putin uses food and energy as weapons of war, our fellow citizens are facing unprecedented economic repercussions that affect everyone, every sector.
let us set up a european energy shield, limit electricity and gas prices, and make group purchases at the level of the european union.
(speaker agrees to reply to a blue card)
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
i therefore ask a question: since it is not only the energy sector that makes superprofits, are you in favour of taxing the superprofits of all multinationals?
for us, this is the absolute priority: to focus on all the companies that benefit from the war, particularly those in the energy sector.
i would also agree with you that, given the emphasis on lng as an alternative source of energy to russian gas, yes, we need to do more.
and part of this playbook or blueprint ecosystem would be the eeas – i’m in contact with my colleague, high representative josep borrell, who is preparing the eu hybrid toolbox which has been announced in our strategic compass initiative.
it took a war to realise that we need our own umbrella and reliable energy providers.
our citizens are facing an unprecedented energy crisis, even as they were struggling to recover from the pandemic.
so far, the european union's utopian choices are untenable - carbon fraud, climate neutrality is unrealistic, wind farms are killing our ecosystems, european taxpayers are being blackmailed for the benefit of developing countries, climate migrants are being blackmailed, the commission is being given an exorbitant role in the future cop negotiations, ... the list goes on and on.
this will result in an impoverishment and a decline of europe against the background of obvious climate guilt, while you leave the hands free to all the ultra-polluting globalist projects.
the cop, the united nations conference that brings together world leaders to discuss the ecological crisis and the fight against global warming, will be held at the same time as the football world cup in qatar, held in the middle of the desert in air-conditioned stadiums.
all this is not serious and particularly cynical, when in recent months we have been marked by climate disasters of unprecedented scale, with a new record of fires in europe and around the world, floods that have wiped out entire territories, such as pakistan.
yes, the ecological crisis is here and it is the most vulnerable, always the same, who are the first victims.
so, on the eve of cop27, one more, millions of people who are suffering the full brunt of climate change have their eyes on us and we need to provide them with concrete answers, with social and climate justice policies, not just resolutions and declarations of good faith.
the facts are crystal clear: the global targets are not enough, they are far from enough to stop the climate crisis.
that is why we in parliament have called for a reduction of at least 60% by 2030 from the outset of the debate on the climate change legislation.
an increase in the climate targets is possible with the package "fit for 55".
more renewable energy, tighter emissions trading, more covered emissions, stronger cuts - these are all important objectives that we as the european union must advance now.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a climate conference is an international event of great importance: for the states, which must set their ambitions high and high, and for the people, who are the first to be affected by the climate and who are pushing the political leaders to do more and better.
there is no point in trying to save the climate if it is to allow authoritarian regimes to emerge.
our energy must be total to put policies in place to ensure prosperity, to keep bills down, to keep our small businesses alive.
what was possible with the tax on superprofits, for example, must be possible with the energy crisis and the responses to it.
it must enable us to become independent, whether in food, industry or energy.
i therefore call on the council, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, to do the following: raise wages, invest more in a social climate fund, and reform the energy market.
but i want to talk about this war on energy that he is waging at home, the price of gas and electricity that are soaring, these families in europe, these artisans, these butchers, these smes, these communities that can no longer do it, that are dying.
all this while accelerating climate change, ignoring the fact that the cost of living will increase inexorably as the planetary boundaries shift.
the solution lies in the ability of the member states to jointly provide the billions needed for the ecological transition.
what we need are binding targets for our energy consumption reduction and a 2035 deadline to finally be gas-free.
industry, agro-industry, private jets and space tourism: some do not consume energy, they consume it.
the cheapest energy is the one that is not consumed.
it is their efforts that will guarantee the right to energy of citizens.
i naturally welcome the proposal for a price cap and for joint gas purchasing, which are key objectives in alleviating the burden of the energy crisis on households and businesses.
i am very pleased that we have recently been able to include nuclear energy in the funding of repowereu by means of an amendment.
let's defend the planet, not give in to climate scepticism.
the european court of auditors has concluded that the promised 20% of climate spending over the mff 2014-2020 period has not been met.
this is unacceptable when we know the priorities for the ecological transition.
and for the next mff, it is 30% climate spending, plus 10% for biodiversity.
i would therefore like to know over time, year after year, whether we are meeting these objectives, in particular the climate objectives, and not wait for the end of the mff to find out.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
the russian aggression against ukraine is having a heavy impact on all, but there is no doubt that the tunisian economy is among those paying the highest toll in terms of food and energy security.
we need to enable tunisians to deal with the covid crisis, the energy crisis.
madam president, the designation of putin's russia as a threat to peace and security in europe has forced a number of member states to review their own record of political, diplomatic, strategic and energy relations with putin's russia, but this is not the case for belarus.
during the four parallel thematic tables, two most pressing topics were discussed: the connection between energy, the climate and the economy and peace and security on the european continent.
in prague, european leaders sent a strong signal directed not only to russia but also to the rest of the world about europe’s sincerity with regard to defending a rules-based multilateral order and enshrined in the un charter, and against the backdrop of russia’s weaponisation of energy and food that is affecting the european and global economy.
this would include, inter alia, economic security and energy resilience.
the connection of ukraine to the european electricity grid when russia weaponised energy is an example.
hence the talks in prague about energy interconnectors in the north sea and the balkans, and strengthening production capacity with countries such as norway and azerbaijan.
security, energy independence, cybercrime and youth policy, we need to make even more concrete political, economic and cultural projects.
the new prime minister has made some fairly poor decisions in the last few weeks, but this was a good one – to attend the epc with immediate benefits for the uk, including hosting an epc meeting next year or the year after, re—joining pesco on military mobility and re—joining the north sea energy cooperation group.
on energy, as well as the nature of the institutional setup.
the council will continue to oversee the ongoing eu action along the three well-known tracks: emergency relief and financial support to the most affected countries; helping vulnerable countries to build sustainable and resilient food systems and improve the livelihood of their farmers; and working together with our international partners to ease tensions on global agricultural markets.
g20 agriculture ministers have underscored the importance of addressing the current food crisis in a sustainable manner, and they have also highlighted the urgency of accelerating the transformation of our food systems.
this is fully in line with the outcomes of the 2021 un food systems summit and the eu’s own sustainability agenda, as set by the european green deal and the farm to fork strategy.
we all support the g20 agriculture ministers’ reiterated commitment to halving global food waste and losses and to improve the transparency of global commodities markets and promote an open and predictable trade environment.
these are all critical and necessary actions to address the food crisis and move towards sustainable food systems.
the chair’s summary reflects that in all substantial areas, from the transition towards sustainable food systems to the importance of open, rules-based trade, g20 members have achieved consensus and even progress compared to previous years.
second, a production strand to drive the transition towards sustainable and resilient food systems, especially by investing in local small—scale producers and food entrepreneurs.
a 32% increase as compared to 2021. almost eur 5 billion to support the transition to sustainable food systems in partner countries, including additional eur 350 million in the acp countries and eur 225 million for the middle east and north africa to ensure better resilience.
the sustainability of this deal should lead commercial insurers and shipping companies to make greater use of the black sea route.
and we need to make agriculture sustainable so that it can feed those who need us as producers... (the president cut the speaker off)
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr minister, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to welcome a highlight of the conclusions of the g20 agriculture summit: sustainable food systems are the key to food security.
the increasingly severe climate change is alarmingly amplifying the threats of ever more frequent crises.
but today farmers are under increasing pressure from the european commission, and the regulation on the reduction of pesticide use and the directive on the reduction of industrial emissions, they're getting your attention, they can irreparably destroy our farmers and by implication cause hunger and migration.
we have to understand that this war started by russia is not just a war waged with weapons, but also a war for food and energy.
it's being driven by putin's war, no doubt, and it's putting thousands of people at risk of dying every day, tens of millions of people in extreme poverty, hit by a combination of various crises -- geopolitical, climate, of course, energy -- all of which are driving up food prices.
improving the sustainability and resilience of their production to climate change is essential.
i therefore regret that the european commission's proposal on new gene editing techniques is not expected before the last half of 2023. there is an urgent need to find effective solutions to reduce input consumption, which would have a dual economic and environmental benefit.
we need to look at the current crisis and enable a production increase, but we also need to ensure long-term food security by transforming our food systems towards sustainability.
however, and we all know that the most effective step would be for russia to stop immediately its military aggression and stop using food and energy as geopolitical weapons, which undermines food security worldwide.
only african responses can be a sustainable solution to food security in africa!
supporting local farmers, improving market access and using agricultural technologies that can withstand the effects of climate change, including the use of modern water management systems, are essential.
the current economic and energy crisis in the world and in europe is deepening and destabilising the global food market.
mr president, what is the point of voting on this text on so-called sustainable marine fuels without asking more broadly the question of the 10 billion tonnes of goods that cross the world every year on ultra-polluting container ships?
it also plans to reduce emissions in maritime transport.
it is important to note that, of course, in shipping, it is technologically more difficult to achieve zero emissions, that is undeniable.
but we're talking about these emissions that absolutely have to be reduced.
finally, we call on the commission and the member states to integrate culture into all major eu policy priorities, such as climate change, digital transformation, economic reconstruction and international relations.
rising energy costs and inflation are creating new problems.
the european union must be able to take action to protect the environment and to ensure that the environment is protected.
as an ecosystem—based approach was used for the delivery of the scientific advice on which this implementing regulation is based, the responsible scientific body, the international council for the exploration of the sea, provided management options that factored in how much fishing activity takes place in the areas containing vmes.
based on consultations with stakeholders, the commission proposed a management option that best balances environmental protection and socio—economic implications.
it is enough that absolutely all the measures you adopt with the most varied excuses, most of them of an environmental nature, result in harm to fishermen.
they're enthusiastic about sustainability.
forget about prejudice, kick the ports and the auction houses, the processing companies... you will find many people like hilaria and aurelio, longliners who do not understand why you are attacking, with this decision on bottom fishing, a sustainable form of fishing.
you will meet fishermen who are concerned about the confusion created by a regulation whose scope was not clear even to you; others will tell you that they do not understand why european vessels are prevented from fishing, subject to strict control and very strict rules, while less sustainable products are imported.
one of the richest, because they contain species of fish, molluscs or corals of extraordinary diversity; the european union has a long tradition of supporting the conservation of the environment, and the eu is one of the most fragile, because species mature very late and reproduce very slowly and because habitats take a long time to recover when damaged.
deep-sea trawling is undoubtedly the greatest destroyer of this marine biodiversity.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of marine ecosystems, rich in biodiversity, is fundamental for the future of the planet and for the sustainability of our ocean activities.
in the present crisis situation, when our economic players are struggling with high energy prices and resource shortages, we must also be careful in implementing this measure.
there is a steep rocky drop that is a place of very rich biodiversity, because it benefits, you know, from the phenomenon of "upwelling", the upwelling of nutrients from the deep, and this is where we find especially cold water corals.
these ecosystems are 'hotspots' of biodiversity, but they are also very fragile.
as the european union negotiates the future treaty on the conservation of biodiversity on the high seas, it is imperative that it sets an example.
but we also need to support the development of gear for more sustainable fishing.
yet we are already wrecking this unknown and delicate place with waste and with fishing gear.
the commission is simply doing its job to protect marine biodiversity and implementing decisions that we have voted for.
it is high time we prioritised nature protection because the biodiversity crisis will not go away if we write legislation that we don’t put into practice.
it is time we invested our resources into more sustainable fishing methods.
and i am not speaking here only as a member of the id, but as a french representative of our fishermen, ladies, and like our spanish or portuguese colleagues who know how to overcome political divisions, we must all defend our fisheries and our fishermen against the european commission, which does not distinguish between artisanal fishing and that of multinationals, nor between sustainable fishing methods and those that are not.
i would remind you that they guarantee our food independence, the quality of the products and, of course, the sustainability of the resource.
what are the effects of climate change?
(the speaker agrees to reply to a 'blue card' intervention)
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
madam president, in recent weeks, four european countries france, spain, poland and the netherlands have announced their intention to withdraw from the energy charter treaty, the real life insurance of fossil fuels.
italy had already taken the step in 2016. thanks to the initial action of a few scouts, a consensus is emerging in europe against this treaty, which threatens climate action by protecting investments in fossil fuels.
because of the energy costs and energy bills, our children are deprived of education.
in the heart of the european union, the world's leading economic power, our children are deprived of education because our public authorities can no longer pay the energy bills.
you said, mrs von der leyen, and you are right, that we must learn from the past and accelerate the development of renewable energy.
it is a year since we should have decoupled the price of gas and electricity, taken back public control of the sector, used the common strength of the european market against speculators, massively developed renewable energies and taxed all the profiteers of the crisis.
i also note, mrs von der leyen, that you like sanctions when it comes to austerity, but not when it comes to renewable energy.
no measures have been taken to support our businesses and families in the face of an unprecedented energy crisis.
in the long term, the tax leverage must be used by lowering the vat on energy, as germany or poland have done.
mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is once again responding to the energy crisis with a price cap on gas, a price corridor, the joint purchase of natural gas from our partners.
it was the case during the health crisis, it must be the case again in the face of the energy crisis, and we must accelerate action to protect europeans.
i am thinking of the energy shield, the reform of the electricity market or the strengthening of the mechanism (name unheard).
mr president, mr vice-president, after the last european council we are moving in the right direction to overcome the energy crisis, along the lines that the spanish government has been calling for.
on the other hand, we must put a limit on the price of gas and reform the energy market, dissociating gas prices from electricity prices and promoting joint purchasing, energy interconnections and green energy corridors, such as the one that will link the iberian peninsula with france.
mr president, we are all aware in this european parliament that the council is faced with very difficult decisions in responding to the crisis in energy supply and the rising cost of energy to businesses and households.
however, this cannot make us forget or neglect the need, arising from the abrupt breakdown of all forms of cooperation with russia, to support sectors which depend not only on energy supplies but also on connectivity through ports and airports, as is clearly the case with sectors which depend on tourism.
– mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank all of you for your interventions, which very clearly reflected the sense of urgency and worries of citizens you represent and what citizens feel about energy supplies, the cost of living crisis and the war in ukraine.
we saved a lot of energy this year and we managed to get the prices of gas down.
we are already now working for the next winter to make sure that we would act in solidarity and unity and that we would proceed, as it was underlined by many – the last of the speakers referring to it was mr nica – that we would make sure that we would use our economic power, our economic weight, and we will purchase the part of our gas supplies together through the european energy platform.
today we propose the ways to further accelerate the build-up of renewables – exactly what madam reintke was calling for – so we can leapfrog and make sure that more and more energy that we will use in europe will not only be clean, but we will be getting it from our genuinely indigenous european sources, because wind and solar is our energy.
this morning we adopted a communication on fertilisers, and in the same way we are assessing all the options available to us to get a grip over current energy prices.
as mr ropė was calling for, we are also working very hard – and you will be debating it today and tomorrow, the trilogues will start – on a very important measure, repowereu, which would help us to direct more financial resources to help vulnerable households, to help smes and to create more fiscal space for our member states to provide necessary state aid for energy—intensive industry.
we now move on to the next item on the agenda: the commission statement on the results of the modernisation of the energy charter treaty (2022/2934 (rsp)).
– mr president, honourable members, the modernisation of the energy charter treaty pursues the goal of enhancing energy security, facilitating diversification of investments into renewable energy sources.
it also provides for an international platform for cooperation in the energy sector with key partners in central asia, the balkans, as well as important energy partners such as turkey, japan and ukraine.
this is of particular importance today given the fragile geopolitical situation impacting the energy sector.
we achieved all key eu objectives, notably the new energy charter treaty is fully in line with the energy transition and climate goals.
we have aligned the ect with our environmental objectives by incorporating them in a modernised ect.
this fully safeguards the eu’s ability to develop our climate policies.
there will be no possibility to interpret the agreement in conflict with our climate and green transition objectives.
it explicitly protects our right to regulate and provides for the space to adopt ambitious climate policies.
this means the eu would stop protecting all fossil fuel investments as soon as 2032. the modernised treaty would also incentivise european renewable energy companies to invest in other contracting parties’ territories.
on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to say that the modernised text of the energy charter treaty unfortunately does not meet the climate ambitions of my political group, the socialists and democrats, nor the demands of this parliament, nor the internationally agreed emission targets.
let us all assume our responsibilities in this house: let us demand a coordinated exit from the energy charter treaty.
companies investing in fossil fuels may be demanding billions from our member states, while we are making the responsible choice of climate neutrality.
our two years of fighting, sometimes alone with the ngos, are paying the price for the energy charter treaty.
european states - france, the netherlands, spain, and others - announce their exit one after another, because this treaty is an anti-ecological heresy that protects the interests of polluting multinational corporations and prevents states from taking action on climate.
the first is to increase energy production in europe by all means.
as deputy rapporteur on the repowereu plan, i tabled an amendment - i hope we will adopt it together tomorrow - to include nuclear energy, which we must be able to rely on.
but we already understand the urgency of having a stable, decarbonised energy system.
- other decarbonised and non-fossil energy sources, such as decarbonised hydrogen, and therefore nuclear energy.
i would like to remind you, however, that these support mechanisms, which we are creating to reduce energy dependence on outside europe, must first of all help to produce in europe, and european production must of course be given priority over imports.
the directive on the reporting of sustainability-related information by undertakings aims to establish a transparent mechanism that contributes to building an economy in the interest of citizens, with all that this means, from all points of view.
in order to ensure a level playing field, provisions have also been introduced requiring sustainability reporting by subsidiaries or branches in the european union of companies based outside the european union.
however, i would draw the european commission's attention to not creating excessive red tape for smes through delegated acts, as they are already facing a difficult economic situation due to the war and the energy crisis.
i would agree with mr biedroń and ms wolters that sustainability goes beyond merely green issues and environmental issues.
i welcome the clarity, the strictness and the enforceability of this and i would remind the commission, as we prepare the standards that are going to be applied, that there is already an internationally agreed framework for those standards, which is the sustainable development goals.
and that’s why it needs to go here with a corporate sustainability due diligence directive.
for the greens/efa group madam president, faults big enough to carry a tank of diesel through: these are the words used by antonio guterres to describe the wide gaps between corporate climate commitments and their actions.
we found out last week that total, the 19th largest polluter in the world, with huge profits, has reportedly understated its greenhouse gas emissions.
this 'total gate', because it is one, highlights two things: firstly that we must democratically develop the methods by which these companies calculate and present their emissions, but also that we have a lot of work to do, a lot, to make sure that the rules we develop, the values we claim to uphold are finally respected.
madam president, 1.6 billion tonnes of co2: this is total's total greenhouse gas emissions in one year.
the oil companies lie about global warming the way the cigarette vendors lied yesterday about our health and the way the clothing brands lie about forced labor.
so i welcome the improvement of the directive on the publication of environmental and social information by companies, but we are demanding more than words: we are demanding action.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of this directive is an important step towards an ambitious public corporate information system, which provides consumers and investors with all the data on the impact of corporate activity on the environment, human rights, workers' rights, the rights of indigenous peoples and the governance system of all developing countries.
it is a way of ensuring that europe's big businesses act in accordance with the values and principles of the european union, those values which the union proclaims as a geopolitical bloc, namely democracy, human rights, the fight against climate change, the development of the countries of the global south, because it is of little value that our discourse and our policies are inspired by these principles if the practices of our companies, when they operate in the rest of the world, openly contradict them.
sustainability reporting is useful not only for the climate and the environment, but also from the perspective of companies that can demonstrate that they are sustainable.
first, our smes are the ones that are really overwhelmed right now: taxonomy, deforestation regulation, sustainability reporting, supply chain law.
companies need to document, they need to prove, they need to document, they need to inform, and this is especially true at a time when every business is being challenged by rising energy prices, inflation, supply chain bottlenecks and skills shortages.
i therefore urge the commission, madam commissioner, to take the principle of proportionality seriously in the standards now being developed for sustainability reporting and not to place a disproportionate burden on small and mediumsized enterprises.
corporate sustainability reporting is of course a key concern right now in times of climate crisis and social inequality.
we need to ensure that transparency and compliance with all human and environmental obligations are a core responsibility of every company, especially from the perspective of the employees along the often opaque, long supply chains around the world.
companies that accept child labour or pollution - whether as subcontractors or suppliers - must finally be held accountable.
they are a leverage that we can and must take responsibility for in achieving human rights, protecting the environment and combating climate change.
that's why taxonomy, that's why disclosure requirements for financial services providers, that's why we're now reporting on corporate sustainability so that investors know where they can safely invest so that the return is sustainable.
it's 2028, and europe is still burning up energy prices, inflation - read the imf forecast - and joe is suddenly faced with the task of preparing an annual report on how his company is contributing to climate change, marine resources and biodiversity.
; we will be looking at the information around sustainability.
indeed, i have always regarded the taxonomy, for example, as a management plan for companies because those companies with an eye to the future know that sustainability is the only path to be on.
and i think that together the parliament, council and commission have put in place the tools to allow companies that want to be there for the long term to do the right thing and invest in a more sustainable future.
i think it would be a cardinal error if the commission and this parliament and council ignored the fact that we need sustainability information, that our companies want it, our citizens are demanding it.
our rapporteur is somewhere in the room, i know, but others refer to his commitment and passion and energy, and i want to applaud that.
the debate on the corporate sustainability reporting directive is closed.
with this new regulation on the digital operational resilience of the financial sector, we are completing the digital finance package, and it was time to ensure the cyber resilience of our financial ecosystem.
the issue of the video game ecosystem is, as we've all just said, in our own words, clearly important.
we must therefore ensure that we organise an environment which supports this european centre of excellence and protects the sovereignty that surrounds it and thus our european seeds.
so i would like to say again in conclusion that the commission is ready to work hand in hand with the cult committee and parliament to consolidate this ecosystem of excellence for europe.
reporting for the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection the prospects for the sector are of interest in all our member states and throughout the european union.
we must ensure that women have career opportunities in this sector, but also a digital environment free of harassment and respectful of the values of the union and i know that today our european union has the instruments to do this: we have just had a debate, in particular in france, on the harassment of streamer women, and we are better equipped to fight against this phenomenon.
prevention, on the other hand, must remain at the heart of our priorities to ensure that video games remain fun, free of age-inappropriate content, and that the player does not become isolated in a digital environment.
finally, video games and esports must also contribute to the ecological transition, not only by reducing their co2 emissions, but also by using the power of this medium to educate and raise awareness among players.
we have energy issues to deal with, we have purchasing power issues.
it is a shame to bury the climate the day after cop27 in a country that is not the world champion in football but in co2 emissions, with its air-conditioned stadiums in the middle of the desert.
let us ask ourselves this question in advance of the climate impact and let us ensure that the criteria are finally established.
as the cop has just ended, it is an extraordinary fact that many nations around the world would do well to take as an inspiration to fight climate change.
now, as the world leader in green bonds, it is up to our union, commissioner, to set benchmarks for sustainable investment in the world and for the commission to continuously ensure that any attempts at 'greenwashing' are thwarted.
at the heart of this chamber, hundreds of national parties from 27 countries manage to agree on climate laws, digital rights, agricultural budgets, minimum wages and so many other topics, often even before the other european institutions.
i am thinking in particular of the purchase of vaccines, the stimulus plans and now the capping of energy prices.
give us the right of initiative and you will have the keys to the problems of inflation, energy, asylum and immigration, among others, which we still have to deal with in the coming months and in the coming years before the end of this mandate.
these priorities are dealing with the consequences of the war in ukraine and the related severe energy crises, high inflation and disruption of global supply lines, in addition to advancing the post-pandemic recovery, fighting climate change and fostering the green and digital transition.
that is why, at a time when we are finalising the negotiations on the reform of the carbon market, on the carbon adjustment mechanism at the borders, parliament will, through this vote, reconfirm this mandate with pride and strength.
at the same time, we must respect and influence and pursue the priorities of this parliament and the european union, the fight against climate change, the goal of digital.
those who are producing outside the european union and shipping in products which do not have the same rules, particularly in terms of the emissions market, for the sake of fairness should also see these products taxed.
– mr president, thank you to all of you for providing us with your draft opinion, fully supporting our proposals to introduce new own resources based on the carbon border adjustment mechanism, the emissions trading system, and on the residual profits of large multinational enterprises.
credible repayment of ngeu via new own resources is therefore also a litmus test for the union to remain on the path of sustainable public finance.
but new own resources are also required to ensure the sustainable financing of the social climate fund, helping households and small and medium-sized enterprises.
first, on the carbon border adjustment mechanism.
as you know, the commission proposal foresaw the financing of the social climate fund from new own resources.
we welcome that both institutions agree with the objective to finance the social climate fund via the general and union budget under the next mff if there is agreement on a new own resource based on ets covering road transport and buildings.
and to do so, it removes the member states from control of the tax levied on our people and our companies and, more importantly, on our strategic energy choices.
but in the midst of the energy crisis, and despite the fact that the french have rightly financed a sector of excellence for more than 50 years, they are deprived of it when they need it most.
the new revenue is mainly based on these environmental charges, and so they reduce the financing of climate and energy objectives for the member states that have the most difficulty.
in this situation, the removal of these measures is contrary to the union's climate objectives.
so yes, it is justified that arcelormittal pays polluting duties on the ultra-carbon steel it imports from india to sell back to us and that this money can therefore repay the loan that has kept european demand on the world market.
for years, municipalities have been unable to invest in the ecological transition because of stifling tax margins.
commissioner, the proposal does not take into account the incalculable costs of climate inaction.
how much does it cost member states to delay the investments needed to tackle the climate crisis year after year?
because those fiscal sustainability concerns are also the ones which we need to take into account, especially now in a changing interest rate environment.
this is reflected also in growing interest rates, something also which we need to consider when thinking of the right balance between debt sustainability and promotion of investment.
well, now it’s also in a sense reflected with the possibilities of member states to have more gradual debt adjustment paths, if they implement growth-enhancing and fiscal sustainability, improving investments and reforms.
if you also look at our orientations for the review of the fiscal governance framework, the aim of ensuring fiscal sustainability, budgetary discipline, as you mentioned, is very much present.
we are already discussing that if member states are implementing investments and structural reforms which improve growth prospects, which improve fiscal sustainability, then member states can have more gradual debt—adjustment trajectories.
my question is: how can we simultaneously rethink and ensure, in practice, that our policy monitoring indicators take greater account of the climate, social and autonomy dimensions?
but then it's for member states to come up with their fiscal structural plans and do some adjustments, including adjustments if they implement reforms and investments which are growth-enhancing, supporting fiscal sustainability, and also responding to common european priorities, including the green and digital transition, strengthening the resilience of the european economy, reaching the strategic aims of the eu.
and of course the way we are applying fiscal rules is to be seen also in a broader context, for example, of european semester, where we are taking this broader approach, also looking at our strategic work directions, looking at sustainable development goals, other elements.
i ask what is the guarantee that the debt sustainability calculations will be sound and will bring simplification?
i ask what is the guarantee that the new instrument to be created to monitor the implementation of investments and reforms will allow us to make a sound assessment of the economic and debt sustainability impact?
and i would like to start by reading from the european pillar of social rights, pillar 20, which says ‘everyone has the right to access of essential services of good quality, including water, sanitation, energy, transport, financial services and digital communications.
so to put it simple, especially for countries with high debt and correspondingly higher debt sustainability risks, we would expect those countries to pursue more a debt reduction path.
and for countries with lower sustainability risks, which are closer to 60% of gdp, a possibility to have a more gradual adjustment path.
but you are stressing the fact that we need also a further commitment on common investments, especially related to the climate transition.
also, if you look at our current european semester structure, for example, the annual sustainable growth survey, which we are publishing today, we are focusing on four dimensions of competitive sustainability.
finally, they are inadequate because these rules do not take account - and unfortunately still do not take account - of the planetary limits and the imperative of combating climate change.
they do not even take into account the fact that climate change will weigh on public debts and finances in the future.
so my question is: how will you ensure that these rules are actually aimed at shared prosperity and environmental protection?
do you not think it is high time that these rules were changed in depth, for example by means of an environmental treaty which would take account of social ceilings?
i believe that the process of including the environmental and social dimension in our budgetary surveillance exercises has started in the last few years and must be continued.
and it is also important for the environmental dimension and, more generally, for the sustainable development goals.
and green transition is also about putting agricultural land into production to make countries less dependent on agricultural imports and increasing agro-ecological and agro-sustainable practices.
in sub-saharan africa, for example, the global gateway investment package - sustainable food systems - the name says it all - is going to invest in increasing sustainable production in niger, in madagascar, in the ivory coast, in ghana, in togo, in zambia... i have here the list of projects for sustainable agriculture and livestock in chad and in sudan, fisheries in senegal and in somalia... in total, some €600 million will be mobilised to support african and caribbean countries (acp countries) and €225 million for the north africa and middle east region.
hunger kills more people than war, and climate change isn't going to make it any easier.
because climate change is also going to cause in some parts of the world a mortality associated with its agricultural consequences.
we have climate change.
i've already seen in somalia the combined effects of climate change, of drought, which is an effect of climate change, and of the lack of resources coming from outside.
and these people live in countries in north africa, the middle east and sub-saharan africa that are very vulnerable from a climate standpoint and because of their relationship of dependence on ukraine and russia.
we talk a lot about sub-saharan africa, ethiopia, somalia, but we have to go a little further and look at the european countries because, after all, these are french departments and countries which, although not european, expect us to be more committed to food and also to the climate.
we have just seen it at the sharm el-sheikh summit, where my colleague timmermans played a fundamental, i would say 'stellar' role in showing that europe is not backing down on its climate commitments, quite the contrary, and that it is the best partner for countries that are threatened by both geopolitical turmoil and climate turmoil.
if we are to defend our interests and to address global challenges – climate change, but also environment, health – we need to speak, we need to work, we need to trade and negotiate with china.
in a nutshell, to be concrete and short, we need to extend the economic and political dimension of our partnership, proposing sustainable solutions to key challenges and proving that our cooperation, our offer of cooperation, is as valuable as our political partnership.
i would have liked china to be a partner in issues like fighting climate change, in the form that china takes its share of responsibility.
the objective of such exchanges is clear – implementing the various work strands of those two new initiatives, in particular the green transition and climate change, energy trade and economic diversification and socio economic recovery, while we continue our engagement on pre-existing dialogues, including on human rights.
but this region plays a key role as well in countering and mitigating the consequences of the russian war, be it as a major provider of energy for the eu or as a donor and supporter of the countries particularly affected.
we have never needed to work more closely with the states of the middle east, as the effects of war and energy sanctions are drastically transforming global commodity trade.
as global energy leaders, the countries of the region are indispensable partners not only in solving europe's energy crisis but also in renewable energy.
i welcome the positive developments in the region, as has been mentioned: the normalisation of democratic relations between some arab countries and israel through the so-called abraham accords, the agreement between lebanon and israel on their maritime border, the decrease in the number of attacks around the gaza strip, the signature of the israel—egypt memorandum of understanding on energy, among others.
the war in ukraine, which is europe’s biggest political threat today, has also affected the middle east heavily, from food and energy insecurity to russian disinformation campaigning through the region.
yes, but for months, salah has been held in administrative detention without trial, for six-month periods renewable indefinitely.
there is a large consensus that the only sustainable way forward is to encourage a consensual and inclusive solution, libyan-led and libyan-owned.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances is a welcome one.
asylum and immigration policy is and will be dependent on our efforts on climate, on development policy, on our actions internationally.
even today, in an energy price crisis that you have caused largely through green dogmas and naivety about russia itself, that crisis must serve the truly interconnected energy single market.
we all agree that interconnection in the energy market contributes by definition to greater security, lower prices and lower emissions.
we have also worked with the commissioner on ten-e, the guidelines for crossborder energy networks, for a long time, and as rapporteur for this project in parliament i will certainly not deny that this objective is extremely important.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union's energy policy priorities and will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union's energy policy priorities.
in other words, we should be facing power cuts this winter, because we don't have enough energy to meet demand.
so yes, it is clear that better connections between european electricity grids will help to cope with the energy crisis.
nevertheless, we still need the capacity to supply these grids, because the liberalisation of the energy sector has hampered the necessary investments in our electricity generation capacity.
there is therefore an urgent need to exit the european energy market and regain control of our energy production and distribution in order to protect european households, communities and businesses from shortages and price increases.
madam president, only by exiting this market will we be able to plan the energy sector in the long term so as to ensure security of supply, regulated tariffs and our full energy sovereignty.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, before the extraordinary meeting of the energy ministers, i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues.
we must work as quickly as possible to achieve a unified energy system for the european union.
first, it would ensure energy security, independence and resilience.
third, the authorisation of renewable energy projects and the connection to the grid must be accelerated, procedures simplified and bureaucratic obstacles reduced.
exactly ten years ago, the european commission presented a communication on the launch of the internal energy market.
now, a decade later, we have the biggest energy crisis in history, triggered by the russian war, and a drop in supply from 40 to nine percent.
conclusions for the future in the context of my current work on the expansion of the eu energy market to green gases as well as hydrogen.
a binding target of diversification of energy supplies from third countries is therefore necessary.
without such corridors, there will be no development of the new energy field and no energy security in europe.
because yes, without energy and industry, a modern democratic society cannot thrive.
it is historic, in the face of the crisis, we have to rethink our energy system, which must be interconnected, integrated and decarbonised.
we are financing renewable, non-fossil energy, produced locally and regionally, with infrastructure to transport it across europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner simson, the full single common energy market is now an urgent condition for the european union to continue to have societies with cohesion.
the greece-bulgaria pipeline, the fsru in alexandroupolis, the electricity interconnection between greece and egypt are top priority projects, as is the installation of renewable energy sources, reducing the barriers immediately and drastically.
the commission has come a long way to address the current energy crisis, starting with the energy prices toolbox already last october: the gas storage and gas demand reduction regulations, repowereu, the revenue cap on cheap electricity producers and the solidarity contribution of fossil fuel producers.
cumulatively this work is contributing to the relatively good state of our energy system.
save for exceptional circumstances, we are well prepared for this winter from the energy—security perspective.
in the meantime it is important to continue the work on energy demand reduction.
energy demand reduction works much better when applied in coordination with national partners, therefore the commission has launched together with the international energy agency the ‘playing my part’ initiative.
we also remain committed to work with the energy efficiency hub, a global platform for collaboration on energy efficiency.
the energy demand reduction continues to be crucial to keep the energy prices in check and to prepare already for the next winter.
individually each member state would be in a very difficult situation, but thanks to the joint work of the european parliament, the council and commission over the years together we have developed a solid legal framework that made our energy markets stronger and more resilient.
the amplitude of the challenges ahead of us is clear: climate change; the need to boost our economy at a time of high inflation and potential stagnation; a difficult geopolitical scenery and the necessity to cut our dependence on russia.
the council for its part will keep the situation on the energy markets under constant review and react swiftly.
we put in place a set of tools that already proved successful, lowering significantly the volatility of energy prices and enhancing security of supply.
a further integrated energy market will prove efficient and stronger when undergoing shocks, and will be a useful tool in the fight against climate change.
europe is in deep crisis due to unbearable energy prices industries are crumbling, the economy is heading for recession, living standards are falling.
one of the main objectives of the european union's energy policy in the current economic crisis caused by the ongoing war should be to create a common internal market in electricity.
it is also important to ensure the security of energy supply, which is a challenge for many european countries today.
the commission should therefore focus on facilitating cross-border electricity trade and ensuring a stable supply of energy in all countries.
in a public statement, which i endorse, the socialist and democratic group has proposed lines of action to make the single energy market more interconnected and transparent, allowing better price controls and ensuring the competitiveness of companies.
mr president, after the failure of cop 27 on climate, mainly linked to the exorbitant and out-of-the-box demands of the european union, the major leaders will meet in canada for cop 15 on biodiversity.
while the governments are telling us about the efforts needed to curb the rapid deterioration of our biodiversity, we are told that a large number of heads of state will not be present in montreal.
the protection of our environment therefore ends in geopolitical disputes.
but we should not worry, because the lobbies will be there, like greenpeace, for example, which is financed by the wind turbine lobby, although we know that they are inefficient and have an impact on our environment.
the european union believes that our citizens must bear the burden of climate change alone.
for several years, the climate change crisis has overshadowed - if i may say so - the awareness of the ongoing biodiversity crisis.
these two crises, climate change and biodiversity, are feeding off each other.
so on climate change, i was going to say it's not complicated.
we can do something about biodiversity.
well, i think that by thinking in this way, by putting ourselves in a win-win situation, by understanding that the development of our activities, the development of humanity can and must be done in a healthy environment, we understand that we are in a situation where we have to move forward on this issue of biodiversity.
it is therefore absolutely imperative that we finally ratify an agreement on biodiversity.
our parliament spends its time teaching the whole planet ecological lessons.
mr president, the recovery of wolf populations in europe is posing major environmental and agricultural challenges, both to wildlife and, above all, to the cattle of farmers, which are suffering major damage.
the first imperative: the digitisation of our societies must go hand in hand with our climate commitments.
we need sustainable infrastructure and a greener digital world.
but we also need to develop digital technologies that will reduce our emissions in agriculture, energy and transport.
there is a blind spot in this text: for me, this is the sustainable question and this is the green question.
the digital decade, it takes us to 2030. we have climate targets for 2030. and there's nothing in that text that frames what we decide to implement as the infrastructure to be able to meet those goals.
however, when we want to define social and environmental criteria, we do impact studies.
from the beginning, we have been told that digital technology is the natural ally of the ecological transition.
all the studies, all the studies that exist on the ecological impact of digital technology show just the opposite.
madam president, dear colleagues, commissioner, as the energy and economic crisis continue to loom large, there is a growing risk that many european citizens and companies will fall behind and not reap the benefits of the digital transformation.
and the skills need to be increased along with the investment, because otherwise it would be a waste if we invest in digitization, but we don't have the skills for access.
i believe that with your help, i have found the right mix to achieve full digitization by 2030. let us not forget that all the time we are talking about 20 million ict experts, digital skills for more than 360 million europeans, the provision of millions of high-speed internet connections across the eu, the creation of 10 000 climate-neutral, highly secure edge nodes, the first quantum accelerated computer, the use of cloud services, artificial intelligence, the processing of big data by three quarters of eu businesses or the full digitalisation of public administration and healthcare.
• issues such as youth participation and better participation for example a youth test, a structured dialogue with young people , issues such as sustainable climate and environment policy, mental health, jobs and skills and thanking the commission for next year being the european year of skills; this is another aspect that the young people have brought to the fore, and the issue of digitisation: these were the big five that we have to follow in the future.
first, we need to do better with our climate diplomacy.
but in the medium and long term, there is only one answer to all three crises - high prices, dependence on russia and climate change - and that is more renewable energy and more energy efficiency.
some, like you, mr vice-president, have blamed china, india or the united states for hindering climate action, and sometimes rightly so.
but the reality is that as europe, we have barely reduced our carbon footprint since 1990, and that to the repair of our climate debt of the past is now added that of current climate inaction.
the reality is that member states and their companies, sometimes unfortunately supported by the commission, signed new oil and gas contracts during cop 27 with senegal, egypt and qatar, to the detriment of human rights, corruption and the climate change agenda, which wants fossil fuels to remain underground.
the reality is that despite repeated calls from the united nations to criminalise those who damage the climate, we have not yet done so here.
so, mr vice-president, we have no more time to waste.
however, as i left the climate summit, i was shocked by the weight of the oil lobbies, who had gotten to the point where there was not a word, not a line about the end of new oil drilling.
frans timmermans said: the only important development of this cop is a new fund to help the countries most affected by climate disasters.
i have also seen the effects of climate change on weather patterns - we can talk about that.
i co-founded the ocean and climate platform and i see the ocean's place growing in the various climate negotiations.
i believe that the european union, which has the world's largest maritime area, should not only catch up, but should be even more ambitious in integrating the ocean and marine and coastal ecosystems into the response to climate change.
we know how to map blue carbon ecosystems and we know how to develop blue finance.
rural europe is also the environment in which virtuous initiatives such as the leader programme are developed.
rural areas are the environment for social innovation: different actors come together, new ideas are stimulated and new partnerships are created, with a participatory approach that engages the local population.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, if you will excuse my somewhat wintery dress, in this age of contemporary lies i believe only in the energy shield i represent.
the only question i would like to ask in the minute i have is: what is behind this energy crisis?
renewable energy is becoming the renewal of humanity, while we are moving towards the exploitation of rare earths, which are subjecting us to china.
i have no choice, but i have my concern, and i ask again: in the troubled times we are living in, in the worrying times this parliament is living in, what is behind this sudden energy crisis, which is taking us back to the age of the candle, without us having the slightest candle?
the ecological transformation and the new economic attractiveness are at the heart of your action and that of your government, in full accordance with the european climate and sovereignty objectives.
the judiciary can rule in a much calmer climate, since these few months of governance.
and third, we come to energy.
i believe that no single nation can face the energy crisis alone.
and that is also the only possible message that the speculative traders who are ruling the energy markets of europe right now will understand.
whether it is the undeniable links with environmental sustainability, the protection of monuments and cultural heritage in conflict zones, or the fight against the illegal trafficking of art objects, the international dimension of culture and its role on the global stage should not be underestimated, quite the contrary.
with our group, madam commissioner, we are tabled an amendment to re-establish this simple principle: the commission must provide for an exemption - taking account, of course, of health and the environment - whenever a new standard would endanger a cultural or heritage sector.
thank you very much for also drawing attention to the cultural and creative sectors' ecosystem, but also and above all for proposing measures that target its fragmentation.
a number of you have underlined that the recent global challenges such as covid—19 pandemic, but also the russian war of aggression against ukraine and the energy crisis, hit the sector hard.
culture is also an integral element of sustainable development and an excellent vehicle to transmit and promote our shared european values, including freedom of expression and creation.
and the culture sector makes a significant contribution to employment, to the sustainable growth of the european economy, and to the education and wellbeing of all citizens.
it is responsible for the protection and promotion of cultural heritage on the one hand, but also for the protection of human health and the environment on the other.
with the rising inflation, with the energy crisis and the war on our continent, it will even get worse and therefore, we as social democrats, the european parliament, have demanded over and over again that the council and the commission have to act and create a dedicated budget of at least 20 million to eradicate child poverty by establishing the child guarantee.
the capitalists of qatar, until yesterday strategic partners for the european union's alternative energy efficiency and visa-free travel, have now become an authoritarian regime that attacks european democracy.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
for years the environmental group has been sounding the alarm about corruption and we are calling for action.
the only common value is that of the container ship, on the opposite track to your environmental vows.
the minimum tax rate on multinationals, like the border carbon tax, will soon be a reality, in line with the wishes of this house too.
first, the european fund - you mentioned it - so that we can produce more on our own soil, for example renewable and clean energy and essential goods.
this is what we are already doing, in the environmental field and in the field of the green deal for europe.
after covid-19, war and energy, it is now industry that is at the top of our priority pile.
not only are our companies suffering from the infamous rise in energy prices, for which you offer no lasting solution, but they are now facing an american protectionism which is taking on a false image.
under the guise of combating climate change, this law favours american companies with large subsidies and tax credits, whether in the fields of photovoltaic panels, electric cars or batteries.
we are the only ones to open our borders to products that do not meet any of our standards, whether social or environmental.
does unanimity on energy make sense?
if we want to improve security, we need to admit romania and bulgaria to schengen and help them to defend the external borders, to fix the price of imported gas to improve the energy situation and to support ukraine not only with words but mainly with weapons.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today's topic: the energy crisis and its effects, war, security, transatlantic relations, all have an impact on the citizen.
and maybe what i hope and what the president also presented in her speech, the focus on where we are as europeans, because a lot of work this year has been dealing with the question of the energy crisis.
and last but not least, to accelerate the green transition, because the only real promise that we can give to european industry is the promise of affordable, stable, decarbonised energy to be provided on this wonderful continent, and for that repowereu has just been agreed upon.
to conclude, leaders will be addressing key challenges facing us this winter with regard to our safety and security, our continued access to affordable energy supply, and the strength and resilience of our economy.
on this aspect, i should highlight again the important agreement reached at the foreign affairs council on the reinforcement of the european peace facility, which will provide greater sustainability to this crucial instrument for supporting ukraine’s war effort.
in the context of addressing the energy crisis, solidarity needs to be strengthened through better coordination of gas purchases, cross-border exchanges and reliable reference prices.
in order to gradually end the eu's dependence on fossil fuels from russia and accelerate the green transition, it is crucial to increase investment in innovation, infrastructure and connectivity, and in energy efficiency projects.
the us programme comes at a moment where high energy prices are already having a considerable negative impact on our industries and our competitiveness.
first, russia’s war and the weaponisation of energy supply has led to an extraordinary increase in energy prices in europe.
the eu has encouraged the us for a very long time to increase its climate action, to do more.
the inflation reduction act is an important initiative to deliver on this and the commission is fully supportive of the climate goals that the us is trying to achieve with the inflation reduction act.
this is counterproductive in terms of climate and sustainability outcomes.
while we keep working with our us partners to avoid negative consequences for europe of the us inflation reduction act, we need to continue pushing for europe to become a decarbonised, low—energy—price continent.
the attainment of the green deal’s objective for europe to become a climate—neutral continent by 2050, that should not be put at risk.
to facilitate this, just to face the energy crisis, as you well know, in march this year we put in place a temporary crisis framework.
this enables member states to help businesses that face extraordinary increases in energy prices, and we have been reviewing it constantly to ensure that it remains adapted to the needs of the business community.
first, how to further simplify the granting of aid for the rollout of renewable energy.
europe urgently needs to become a decarbonised, low—energy—price continent.
but more work is ahead of us to make the decarbonisation of our energy system happen fast and to bring the benefits of a high share of renewables in the energy mix to consumers in a lasting way.
the democrats have finally managed to get a big investment package for more climate protection and renewable energy through congress.
to achieve this, the biden/harris administration had to balance job creation and climate action - a core demand of the global left, by the way.
anyone who has seen the industrial vacuum in the united states understands that the whole country needs a sustainable reindustrialization.
it is now to be pushed forward, with enormous resources and in precisely those areas of technology which we in europe also need for the sustainable transformation of our economy and society.
it is right and necessary to link climate policy with industrial policy.
madam president, dear commissioner and minister bek, it’s overwhelmingly positive that finally the usa is also investing in climate change and engaging for these actions in the inflation reduction act, just as we debated with the colleagues ten days ago in the congress.
but is this danger the result of the us's anti-inflationary act alone, or of the eu's long-standing policy, its misguided energy policy and the fact that the entire economy has been subjected to overly stringent climate targets?
in the short term, of course, it's the high cost of energy and the disrupted supply chains, in the long term, it's the transformation to a zero-carbon economic model.
three letters to our continent to lose its markers; three letters for the green deal continent to condemn, as a first step, the ambitious ecological transition plan of one of the world's most polluting economies; three letters to europe to panic, to be alarmed and to cry, even going to ask the united states to change their plan.
first of all, instead of whining, let us rejoice that the united states wants to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 50% by 2030. in fact, if we panic, it is because we finally realise that the european union was founded on a pseudo-economic software which is dying of its own accord, and that, of course, we must have a policy of defence against competition, but that, in order to make industrial policy and the ecological transition, we need subsidies, we need planning, we need strong public authorities and sometimes we must protect these industries.
so europe has to mourn, but it must do so quickly, because industrial policy and the ecological transition cannot wait.
all these measures would be far more effective than any increase in the key rates and far more sustainable than any premium or any energy cheque.
in the immediate future, we are talking about the war in ukraine and also about the brainwashed energy sanctions, which everyone knew would cause economic disaster.
it also proposes to help households in need by lowering vat on energy to 5.5% and removing it from 100 basic products.
just let the energy market do its job and finally invest in additional supply of reliable and affordable energy.
we cannot allow putin to weaponise our energy supply.
of course, in the long term we must prioritise our transition away from fossil fuels and the swift deployment of renewable energy.
madam president, commissioner, 2.4%, according to the international labour organisation, is the decline in real wages in europe in the first half of 2022. behind this figure are lives, thousands of families, and of course it is the poorest and most vulnerable who, from a social and environmental point of view, are the most affected.
madam president, the price increases we are experiencing are particularly cruel, because they affect first and foremost basic necessities: energy and food.
energy prices are exploding because of the absurd rules of the european electricity market and the deliberate sabotage of the nuclear sector, which guaranteed us cheap energy.
the italians, the dutch, the germans and the poles can breathe a little easier, thanks to the reduction in vat on energy.
we must lower taxes on energy and basic foodstuffs.
the citizens of europe are asking us today to make decisions quickly on the most important issues, namely completing the energy union, increasing social security and wages, defending the rule of law, and creating a common european defence.
at the recent conference on the future of europe, citizens called for european defence, an energy union and global power.
how could it be tolerated, for example, that those who decided on germany's energy policy, which was so favourable to russia, then sold themselves to gazprom?
the real problem is, of course, that a permissive security environment exists in brussels and in strasbourg, where our adversaries operate in the heart of our democracy in order to interfere with it.
yes, justice must have its way with individuals and corrupt individuals must be punished, but this house urgently needs to create a non—permissive counter intelligence environment so that our adversaries don’t even dare to interfere with us.
we need a budget that offers solutions to the current needs that enables us to manage the different crises, including inflation, the energy crises and social and regional disparities.
what needs to be done is to strengthen european programmes in the areas of health, digital, energy, security, defence.
we are seeing what the european union is paying for not having an energy union.
energy is one of them.
the reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that the swedish battery group northvolt, spain's iberdrola, one of the world's largest energy companies, france's safran, one of the main suppliers of aircraft engines, and the german chemical giant basf are all announcing in a cascade that they are going to redirect their investments to the united states.
it is being torn apart by energy prices, which are of course the result of our energy naivete, which has led to our dependence on hydrocarbons from the urals.
this was before the humanitarian, social, economic, migration and energy crises that followed.
they represent a real challenge in terms of giving ourselves the budgetary capacity to cope better with the accidents of history, while keeping pace with the strategic ambitions of cohesion, reindustrialisation, energy transition and the fight against poverty.
we don't have time to waste.
if the price of energy remains too high for too long, we risk catastrophic relocations.
the other crisis is climate change.
we can fund an anti-inflation plan and a climate plan for 37 billion every year.
(the president cut the speaker off)
i keep saying: my friends, it is not necessary to have unanimity, it is enough to have a stronger cooperation to create the tax on speculation, which would give 57 billion every year and allow us to avoid social chaos and climate chaos.
as early as may, the world health organization stated that china's zero-tolerance policy on covid-19 is not sustainable.
their latest tactic is targeting missile attacks on key infrastructure in ukraine, with a particular focus on their energy grid.
there have been over 700 attacks on health facilities since the war began, and a russian army has destroyed most of the energy system of ukraine.
these attacks have caused significant damage to ukraine’s power grid and energy stations, resulting in countrywide blackouts, telephone and internet outages, and loss of water supplies.
indeed, attacks on transport and energy infrastructure have restricted patients and mobility, and their access to these vital healthcare services.
so let's not waste any more time.
the time we waste here is paid for in human lives in the ukraine.