it is a welcome realisation that the invisible hand of the market is incapable of defending either our political or our climate security.
the decision to enforce public controls on the retail price of energy is monumental and long overdue.
we must also intervene in the broken energy markets, including rotterdam ttf, where the price of fossil gas has almost tripled since the russian invasion.
above all, we must dramatically accelerate clean energy and efficiency in a wartime peace mobilisation to deliver good jobs, energy, justice and independence.
our best ammunition against both autocracy and climate catastrophe and our best weapon for political and climate security, is the green deal, a peace deal to empower the eu to deliver the just energy transition.
the member states of the european union have launched a gigantic arms race, intensifying competition with russia, which will be paid for by the people through the eurobonds, which feed the war industry and the energy groups.
the workers, the greek people need to escalate their struggles by condemning the imperialist war, for the disengagement of greece from nato and the eu, by demanding their rights to collective labour agreements with increases in accordance with modern needs, ensuring labour insurance rights, abolishing special taxes on fuel and energy, against the plans of the european union, the monopolies and their governments.
the new ten-year environmental action programme is particularly crucial, madam president, as the new ipcc report shows that time is running out dangerously for man.
we congratulate and thank the rapporteur, mrs o'sullivan, and commissioner sinkevičius for this new framework, which opens up a new path for sustainable development in europe and the world.
unfortunately, every day that the hostilities continue, more blood is being shed, more human suffering is being caused, we have more refugees and more consequences for the economy, energy, food security and many other areas, consequences that we will all suffer.
what we all expect at the moment from europe is that it does what it needs to do to deal with the consequences of the energy crisis and the war; that it does it now, because we have no time to lose.
madam president, the people are moaning about the giant increases in energy, fuel, other goods affected by the imperialist war but launched before.
it is the result of the strategy of liberalisation and the energy market, the recovery fund and the green transition, green taxes.
the heavy taxation of the people is being used in the arms race for eurasian needs, for expensive investments in renewable energy and american lng through a new fund and eurobonds.
madam president, allow me to quote for the record what the latest intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) report states as scientific fact.
any further delay in concerted, anticipatory global action on adaptation and mitigation will miss a brief and rapidly closing window of opportunity to secure a liveable and sustainable future for all.
approximately 3.6 billion people live today in contexts that are highly vulnerable to climate change.
current and sustainable development patterns are increasing exposure of ecosystems and people to climate hazards.
vulnerability of ecosystems and people to climate change differ substantially among and within regions driven by patterns of intersecting socioeconomic development and sustainable ocean and land use, economic inequity, marginalisation, historical and ongoing patterns of inequity such as colonialism and governments.
it is our duty to keep the window of opportunity open and deliver climate-resilient development fast and furiously.
the joint communiqué of the summit laid the foundations for dealing with the tragic consequences of the war in areas that affect our lives and our survival, such as the increase in energy prices, inflation, generalized punctuality, the food crisis, new refugee flows, for which the aggressor himself, putin himself, is responsible.
the crisis must therefore be the beginning of a new era for the union and a major concerted effort to lay the foundations for europe's defence, energy and food self-sufficiency.
businesses and workers still struggling to survive after two years of a devastating pandemic are now threatened by the impact of the war in ukraine and the acute energy crisis.
first, creating an action plan to support the tourism sector from the effects of the pandemic and the war with sufficient resources; creating a european crisis management mechanism in tourism; supporting the liquidity of smes with sufficient resources from european financial instruments; tax relief for the tourism sector to be able to respond to rising energy and food costs, and in particular for smes struggling to survive after two years of a pandemic; and finally, transfers of the provisional financial obligations of enterprises to the state.
as the standing rapporteur, i will continue to call for the long—overdue accession negotiations to officially start, and i’m glad to, and really grateful to see the effort for a positive and sustainable engagement between the governments of bulgaria and north macedonia.
during this current situation, the eu and north macedonia are facing common challenges – increase of energy prices, inflation and concerns about the uncertainty of the future.
that this has no negative consequences in his service, no career development, that his children cannot be threatened in school or receive insults from the surrounding negative environment, imbued, unfortunately, with hatred and inertia from the yugoslav past.
we also need to pay closer attention to the quality of our products and the sustainability of production processes.
it is the sense of history that has led us, over the last 60 years, to evolve the cap to take account of new challenges, notably in the field of land use, the conservation of natural resources, the fight against and adaptation to climate change, animal welfare and nutrition.
the cap has also adapted, as enlargements have taken place, to accommodate the diversity of productions and farms throughout the european union, from the tropical climate of our outermost regions to a near-polar climate above the 62nd parallel, and even the mediterranean climate.
this is also true of the transitions, which must be accompanied and accelerated - i am thinking in particular of the ecological transition, through the green deal.
this agroecological transition is at the heart of the challenge of food sovereignty, because, no, our agriculture will not be able to produce in sufficient quantity and quality without an adaptation of the corresponding systems aimed at preserving the means of production such as soils, biodiversity and natural resources such as water.
ladies and gentlemen, the covid-19 crisis, the war in ukraine, global warming, all demonstrate that our food sovereignty is never fully achieved.
in particular, this times have shown us that food security is of strategic importance, equal to defence security and energy security.
that is why we are reforming the common agricultural policy, so that agriculture becomes more friendly for the environment, climate, and animal welfare.
today we celebrate the farmers who daily farm their fields, care for their animals, process products and strive for even more sustainability, high quality and new innovations.
but new challenges have also arisen, such as tackling climate change or biodiversity loss.
we have a responsibility to act quickly to ensure food security, sustainability and affordability in the future.
we need to address topics of common challenges such as the green transition, energy and post-covid recovery.
we have recently launched a new instrument, the turkey investment platform, that opens the door to the european fund for sustainable development+ to turkey, similarly to all other epa iii and ndici countries.
it will leverage funding to turkish businesses and private sector to address the challenges of the twin digital green transition and provide access to finance for smes, including in the fields of connectivity, decarbonisation, energy, public transport, urban development or human capital.
with such a policy to adapt the island economy to the impact of the climate crisis, islands, as closed systems with limited natural resources, can be models for digital and green energy transition, biodiversity enhancement, circular economy in terms of water, materials and waste, and sustainable food systems.
the report describes the economic, social and environmental challenges facing the island regions of the european union and we call for compensation through a targeted policy for the cohesion of both budgetary funds and a series of actions to address the needs of the islands.
the adoption of the report will give a clear direction to the european commission to boost the digital transition, the sustainable economy, sustainable tourism, improving the quality of life of residents, telemedicine, primary health care, interconnectivity with continental regions.
it promotes the priorities of capital, the european union and the bourgeois parties for the anti-people green digital transition, to strengthen energy, transport, tourism groups.
madam president, mr timmermans, this transition is being made to protect us from the great danger of climate catastrophe and to lead us to a break with fossil fuels and the uncontrolled rise in their prices, which threatens the resilience of societies and democracy.
we have the opportunity to move from an energy-scarce economy to an energy-abundant economy.
we have already seen the results of increasing returns on public investment in the development and penetration of renewable energy, which is now the cheapest source of energy and the fastest growing labour market.
the social fund for climate is perhaps the most important package, because it marks the abandonment of the doctrine of the perfect market and moves towards building a new climate welfare state.
the proposed social climate fund was unable to mitigate the negative impacts of the transition, nor to contribute to bold transformative action for systemic change in order to build a sustainable, safe and prosperous future for all.
today, parliament's compromise proposal has the potential to send this strong message, to direct the climate fund to financing green investment, housing and transport, for the benefit of the most vulnerable citizens and of the european economy and democracy.
finally, we consider it important during the speech to ensure the participation of all stakeholders at every stage of social climate projects in order to achieve popular participation, public acceptance and transparency.
they are doing their utmost to protect the environment, while escalating the imperialist conflict with russia in ukraine, sending huge quantities of heavy weapons, missiles, threatening them with nuclear weapons with incalculable consequences.
the unendurable consequences for the people are not hidden by the skyrocketing costs of energy, food, consumer goods, green polluting taxes, the mandatory and expensive purchases of green vehicles and housing.
it treats the environment as a scavenger for raw materials and as a dumping ground for the by-products of capitalist production.
the only way out is centrally planned social production, which, free from the criterion of profit, private ownership of land, water, energy, natural resources, can protect the environment and put the needs of the people at the centre.
president, mr vice-president, it is time to make a stand if we are to achieve our climate ambitions.
and we want to, because we voted overwhelmingly for the climate bill.
the time of free pollution is over, even in the international sector.
moreover, the border carbon tax and the ets should be inextricably linked.
we are in a climate emergency and it is now that europe is deciding on our future climate policy that it will be decided whether we will be able to meet our climate targets.
we are in a climate emergency.
we need to reduce emissions faster.
we are in a climate emergency, and i am concerned about how conservative forces in this house are working right now to undermine the progressive proposal that we greens have been negotiating.
with the energy poverty we are causing, we are losing another generation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the use of the waste water treatment plant is not restricted to the waste water treatment plant.
the cbam is proposed to solve this, a way to end so-called carbon leakage.
it is time to put the conclusions of the conference on the future of europe into practice and to lay the foundations for a common european policy in the fields of energy, health, education and defence.
– mr president, mr commissioner, dear colleagues, the reason that i am here today is because i believe that until 2030, the single duty of all politics is to deliver the sustainable development goals (sdgs), the political twin of the paris agreement.
there can be no starker, nor crueler, proof of our current systemic failure than the cascading security crises in climate, in peace, in energy, in crisis, in food and public health that are ravaging populations all over the globe.
the sdgs are our collective roadmap of effective and rapid collaboration towards preserving the very foundations of human civilisation, of maintaining the twin hard limits of social cohesion and the planetary boundaries, by addressing the twin anthropogenic causes of their demise: exploding inequalities and runaway climate change.
as hundreds of millions of people are backsliding into extreme poverty and billions are vulnerable to severe climate disruptions, we have the moral obligation to honour the promise that links the sustainable development goals with our own european green deal: to leave no one behind.
this whole-of-government approach to sustainable development is in the right direction.
that is why we are calling for a beyond-gdp approach and a reformed semester process that will be at the heart of a new sustainable development pact that will enshrine the climate law in the european social pillar and replace the stability and growth pact.
the report has given us the opportunity to assess and redefine our priorities for the sustainable development goals and the progress we have made since the adoption of the sustainable development goals in 2015. the report also stresses the importance of implementing and mainstreaming the sdgs in policy initiatives and external relations, while encouraging the european commission to take action to tackle climate change and respect and promote human rights, the right to health, local communities, refugees and migrants, children, people in vulnerable social situations, the right to development, gender equality, women's empowerment and gender justice.
i think it is very critical that as we talk about innovation, we recognise our duty to provide basic services, as an organised state, to protect our citizens from the inaction of the past 40 years that has brought us to a world that would be, at a minimum, 1.5 degrees in the best case of international global cooperation on climate action.
the experience of the recovery and resilience fund is a shining example and should be our guide in dealing with other crises, such as the war in ukraine and the energy crisis, for which the greek prime minister has already tabled a pan-european proposal for a joint response.
we must build a european wall of solidarity against turkish provocations and send a message in all directions that the questioning of international legitimacy and the greek interests based on it, in all areas - trade, energy and diplomacy - will not be tolerated.
greece will become an energy hub.
connecting the greek electricity grid with the middle east and africa will soon accommodate imports of lower-cost renewable energy into europe, and this signals a new age for greece.
a new era of sustainable economic growth and prosperity is opening up for greece and its people.
as for the environment in which my government was called to act, a glance back at the calendar is enough: hybrid migration attack - this was followed by turkey's national threats in the aegean and eastern mediterranean, which reached their peak in the summer of 2020 - natural disasters, devastating fires from the climate crisis, followed by the pandemic storm.
but above all, we have made major changes in the working environment.
energy turmoil and inflationary price increases are besetting all european societies.
the international energy turmoil is bringing about price increases for all commodities, which in turn are causing a reasonable, expected popular discontent in all our societies.
europe is therefore called upon today to overcome multiple challenges successfully: to draw up a common policy of decoupling from russian energy sources, promoting the green transition more quickly, but at the same time managing the explosion in energy prices; to build more quickly its strategy of autonomy as a strong pole on the world stage; and, of course, to deepen democracy in its functioning and within the member states, because inequalities and distances from the citizen, unfortunately, remain.
we are one of the first countries to be proposed a european energy plan.
europe is a rising power in technology, a world power in renewable energy.
we have a specific plan for climate change and i know how interesting and how difficult the debate you will have tomorrow on taxonomy will be, madam president, when, despite the difficulties, the air of democracy is still circulating between our countries.
we should be guided by the experience and lessons learned from the four great challenges we have experienced in the last decade: the debt crisis, the refugee crisis, the pandemic and, now, the energy crisis.
and these two lessons are called upon to be applied now in the face of the great energy disruption.
we must break this link between natural energy prices and electricity prices - this is something i have repeatedly asked the european council to do and fortunately i see that there is now a move on the part of the commission to look at how we price electricity on our continent.
we know we need to accelerate the penetration of renewable energy no one can argue with that.
six of them are for me - and i will close with this thought in order to be able to answer your questions - the great challenges that we will have to face in the coming years: european defence and a common security policy, taking into account the challenges of migration; banking integration and protection of deposits; an effective european energy plan; a permanently coordinated action based on the recovery and resilience mechanism; deepening democracy and tackling demagogy; and tackling the scourge of fake news, but also a new european union address in the western balkans, which we must not forget in this room, an address that greece as a balkan country is actively promoting.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
we must make citizens feel safe again in the face of the geopolitical, climate and economic challenges of our time.
in order to address the climate crisis, the recovery fund could be the key driver for the deployment of renewable energy sources through home photovoltaic and energy communities.
we have the strange novelty, while the whole european union is aiming at the total decarbonisation of the economy, that you are limiting yourselves to just de-lethisation, as was shown in the recent climate law that you voted, making the country vulnerable to the very expensive and imported natural gas.
the european commission is giving the possibility of revising national plans to include in them now investments such as upgrading the country's electricity grid through storage and all the necessary things we need to strengthen energy autonomy and a just transition.
there is no such thing as an ecosystem that drives young people to venture and innovate and, most importantly, to use their knowledge.
mr president, the average household is experiencing continuous price rises in energy, fuel, basic necessities and food.
this is the result of the strategy of energy liberalisation, the green transition, the green taxes, which are being magnified by the imperialist war in ukraine, the sanctions against russia and the countermeasures.
at the same time, the bourgeois governments and the european union are rewarding the big energy and other groups with the heavy taxation of the people, the recovery and resilience fund, shielding them from the possibility of a new crisis.
the working people must escalate the struggle against the imperialist war in ukraine, demand the abolition of unfair taxes on fuel, energy and consumer goods, demand collective labour agreements, with increases based on contemporary needs, the planned utilization of all domestic energy sources, including lignite with the abolition of unacceptable eu terms and fees.
mr president, dear colleagues, the taxonomy is perhaps one of the greatest achievements of this house – a true innovation of climate policy and finance, a non—binding but powerful tool that uses science—based targets to eliminate greenwashing and to crowd private investment towards activities that significantly contribute to the union’s environmental and climate goals.
it would terminally traumatise the integrity of the taxonomy by dynamiting its scientific foundation and destroy the union’s climate action credibility by sticking to the murderous fallacy of bending science to the experiences of markets, of expecting the earth system to enter into political compromises, of treating the climate emergency with ‘business as usual’.
worse, it is an act of political chicanery as it lumps two different energy sources that may or may not have different transition uses into a single act in order to extract our votes.
the adoption of the proposals of the greek energy minister, mr skreeka, for a permanent european mechanism to decouple gas prices from electricity prices and to recover the surpluses of the electricity companies, among others, would be in the right direction.
it is our democratic duty and a demand for justice not to leave helpless those who, through our own responsibility, not god's or nature's, are increasingly affected by the climate catastrophe.
the european union and the greek governments have in recent years invoked the 'climate crisis' and 'extreme events' as the causes of major disasters.
but such climate changes and extremes have always existed.
overcoming any waiting, organized, they must fight for wages and entitlements based on modern needs, for real relief from accuracy and energy costs, based on their own needs and not the dictates of their groups and governments.
madam president, just before the onset of this difficult winter, all eyes are on the decisions that the european union will take to deal with the energy crisis and to reduce energy prices.
the union now, more than ever, needs to show rapid reflexes, as it did during the pandemic, and respond with actions and targeted measures to the problem of energy price increases.
for a year now we have been asking the commission in vain to propose regulatory measures on the energy market to halt the unprecedented increases in electricity prices.
but instead of substantial corrective interventions in the failed, distorted and imperfect european energy market model, we have seen only piecemeal measures so far, which have not touched the core of the problem.
the solution to the worsening energy crisis is public control of energy as a social good to which households and businesses must have unhindered access.
the commission must now propose the implementation of effective measures, namely: a maximum profit rate on the wholesale market so that there is no room for surplus profits, a mandatory fixed rate of contracts on the wholesale electricity market, the decoupling of the wholesale price from natural gas as was achieved on the iberian peninsula, protection for consumers who cannot afford the predatory adjustment clauses, and taxation of the excess profits of energy companies.
in view of the difficult winter ahead and the danger that the energy crisis could become a profound humanitarian crisis throughout europe, there is a need to strengthen controls on the entire energy market, since it is not possible to deal with the crisis with recklessness and profit-making.
it is our duty to protect all european citizens from the skyrocketing cost of energy by ensuring their access to affordable prices.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
and your european solution to energy costs is really blackmailing the people: 'pay or freeze'.
the reason is the eu's 'green transition', energy liberalisation and desalination, which are shielding the profitability of the groups.
and of course, the idea that the energy giants will share their profits with the people is a travesty.
demanding drastic price reductions and caps on fuel and energy, abolition of unfair taxes.
energy should be a social good and not a commodity, with the people owning the wealth and disengagement from the european union.
i understand the union's economic ties with azerbaijan as an energy partner for azerbaijan and for my own country, greece.
the new tensions between euro-atlanticism and the emerging eurasian bloc led by china and russia, as well as the rivalries within the eurozone between germany, france and italy, are being signaled against the backdrop of energy economic problems.
the mutual threats to use nuclear weapons, the sabotage of pipelines and critical infrastructure lead to incalculable consequences for the peoples of russia and ukraine, but also of the whole world, which already pays the price of the precision of energy poverty.
recent years have seen our drive for free trade agreements stall, and political division over trade and sustainable development chapters have been one of the major reasons.
now, having recently achieved a mutually—agreeable solution on trade and sustainable development chapters, we can now focus on making up for lost time.
we’ve survived a pandemic, we are tackling the energy crisis – or at least we’re trying to – and our trade strategy is aimed at future—proofing ourselves in a multipolar world.
child labour is a red line, and i think that’s why we’ve reflected it very well in our mutually acceptable across political families compromise with respect to trade and sustainable development chapters.
it is often thought that the use of fertilisers, along with the pollution they cause, and crop yields are an inevitable trade-off.
but international studies have shown that it is possible to increase crop yields while reducing the environmental impact of the unwise use of fertilizers.
we therefore call on the commission to take immediate action to tackle the cost of inputs, while supporting farmers in the transition to natural methods, and to promote a sustainable agri-food system.
in addition to ensuring supply, we must protect the environment and public health.
we have the necessary technological innovations, such as precision farming, and we should never underestimate the role of farmer education in adopting sustainable farming practices.
finally, i would also like to bring up the international code of conduct for the sustainable use and management of fertilizers, which was adopted by fao in 2019. the code essentially provides a framework and a number of voluntary practices, good practices, that can be adopted in fertiliser management.
all of this must be taken into account, mr commissioner, and ladies and gentlemen, to ensure that our farmers have and will have access to the fertilising products they need at competitive prices, while protecting the environment and public health.
– mr president, colleagues, over the last year we have entered a new stage in our pandemic response, from emergency to a more sustainable mode of preparedness and reaction.
mr president, commissioner, the european green deal provides for a reduction of at least 90% of emissions by 2050 in the transport sector.
the transition to electrification and sustainability has multiple benefits for the climate, the environment and human health.
the commission will also be able to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a disaster.
to top it off, the energy crisis is hitting european citizens again, with many of the energy companies profiting from this murky landscape.
our government in greece did it: introduced a temporary emergency tax to tax energy companies on the excess profits they make during this crisis and the money collected goes directly to consumers to make them as relieved as possible.
for a year now we have been calling for institutional action to correct the outdated, distorted model of the european energy market, which has dramatically shown that this crisis is not working in the interests of consumers, households and businesses but in the interests of profiteers.
we are calling for measures with direct impact, such as the creation of a solidarity fund fund, to be funded by a eurobond, to support the immediate response to energy precision in each member state.
measures to ensure public control of energy infrastructure, control and regulation of the energy market and structural reform, since the crisis cannot be dealt with by recklessness and greed.
the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of taxation of excess profits accumulated by energy companies and other multinationals at the expense of european citizens.
we condition commitments on a host of indicators from gender-mainstreaming to sustainability.
– mr president, dear colleagues, cops are always about emissions.
in fact, already today we experience a climate disaster every day on the planet, and this is only going to get worse as global emissions keep actually rising.
tens of countries in the global south are bonded into unsustainable debt to us and are thus unable to tackle these climate disasters, leading to extreme poverty and lethal instability.
from new special drawing rights and debt relief for climate action to the bridgetown agenda and a broader reform of the bretton woods institutions, including the world bank and the imf, multiple ideas are already being discussed and costed.
the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the needs of the world economy.
the skyrocketing energy prices are driving inflation across europe, so let's not introduce any more eu measures, sanctions, that will make the situation worse and threaten to make less energy available.
energy sanctions, whether they are current or new, instead of ending the war, could slowly destroy europe's economy.
it's about us being curious about what hungarian citizens think about energy sanctions.
i appeal to the eu decision-makers to force peace here, to bring people to the table and to guarantee that people in europe can go to peace, can go to a winter here where energy prices do not explode and the european currency also finds stability again.
it is a pity that we have once again postponed making clear choices on energy, and this shows that the european union is once again too slow and divided in its response to crises.
i would add to this the increase in national production of gas and renewable energy sources and also, why not, a pause to reflect on the ecological transition, which we are imposing on ourselves in stages with the risk of surrendering to new strategic dependencies.
it is also the kremlin which, in parallel, has decided to launch both an energy aggression against the european union and an aggression against food security, mainly in developing countries and the most vulnerable.
the energy issue is also a climate issue it is well measured and not discovered today and we are committed to a climate transition, whose foundations are being undermined by this aggression three years ago, we had developed our goal of climate neutrality.
this energy issue is also a matter of competitiveness for our companies, and therefore of prosperity and robustness for the internal market, and of the ability of our union to be robust, solid and to move towards a project of progress, peace, stability, security and protection of the dignity of our fellow citizens.
this was the meaning of the versailles summit a few months ago, when we identified three key points: energy - the importance of which is clear - security and defence, and the technological base.
we need to accelerate investments in renewable energy to become independent faster.
you are, of course, entitled to criticise the energy ministers for not acting fast enough, but in order for them to act and take decisions, we need legislative proposals to put into effect this ambitious package of measures, for which political decisions of principle have been expressed by the members of the european council, who, contrary to what has been said, have forged their unity around it.
but there is another subject - i have said it before and i will say it again - and that is the negotiation with those who supply us with energy resources.
we need to show unity, solidarity and speed, even more speed, in the midst of the energy crisis.
germany, france, italy, spain and other countries are competing on prices, infrastructure, pipelines, storage and energy efficiency.
at the same time, the people are making countless sacrifices, paying for the profits of the green groups and the sanctions in the energy war with russia.
the problems of the people, however, predate the imperialist war, having been born of the strategies of green transition and energy liberalisation that the european union, governments and political parties have established to be treasured by business groups.
energy poverty vouchers and the various baskets do not address the unbearable precision in electricity, fuel, food.
the people in greece, belgium, france and spain are leaving behind false expectations of the european union, are opposing the strategy of precision and impoverishment, are rejecting the waiting attitude and are today demanding wage increases, collective labour agreements, cheap energy, the abolition of taxes.
it agreed on measures to combat high energy prices.
we wonder whether the council's approach to tackling the energy crisis is in line with citizens' expectations.
how is it that only now have the council and the commission discovered the cost of our energy sector's dependence on russia?
but thirdly, citizens are not just asking for emergency measures, but for a rethinking and reformulation of our entire climate and energy policy.
mr president, citizens are becoming increasingly concerned about the impact of energy prices on their lives, and it does not seem that the european council's agreements will be able to reassure them.
for example, in catalonia, in 2019, the cost of energy represented 4% of gdp.
it is not, as the council and his majesty have been absent throughout this period of energy crisis.
i know that you are the one who really cares about what is happening in the energy sector and i would like to send you, and through you to the commission, a message.
we do not agree that national budgets should continue to compensate the profits of companies involved in so-called energy transactions.
and we also disagree with one other thing, mr vice-president šefčovič, and please tell mrs ursula von der leyen that transparency in energy transactions must be mandatory.
what we're all saying is this: we're starting these renewable energy projects, because there are a lot of investments that are privately funded and private.
down with all the administrative barriers, all the administrative approvals that actually prevent the installation of any renewable energy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am particularly pleased that this report not only shows that parliament is driving the change, but above all that it recognises the extraordinary potential of this ecosystem as a part of the creative and cultural industries, and the benefits we can derive from using it in our education systems to develop the necessary digital skills.
he's been funneling cash into renewable energy and digital technology groups and mortgaging workers' incomes for decades.
you basically cover banks, groups and funds to speculate on the backs of workers who you burden with the burden of debt, new taxes, own resources, over inflation, punctuality, energy costs, and they can't keep up.
the region has also become a key region for europe in terms of long-term energy security and migration crises.
madam president, the european union must redouble or triple its efforts to bring the western balkan countries into the union, especially in the current geopolitical environment.
i've always maintained that in terms of foreign and defence policy, the european union must be flexible and adapt quickly to the geopolitical environment around us.
it is very important in this crisis, as it was in the pandemic crisis, as it was in the energy crisis, that european citizens are not jealous of the western balkans, but really provide the necessary support, and as the european union in this process, because it is extremely important to feel the support if we want to live in a union that is solidarity not only with its own citizens, but with the countries that have aspired to be part of it.
so i am very pleased that we have managed, on the one hand, to make the enormous contribution that art and culture make to the awareness of environmental, climate and sustainability issues and their social dimension also anchored in this report.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
mr president, over time the european union and all the greek governments have increased economic, energy and military cooperation with israel, to the detriment of the palestinian people.