thanks to the european skills agenda and the pact for skills, since november 2020 six large—scale partnerships have been established in the sectors of automotive, microelectronics, aerospace and defence, offshore renewable energy, shipbuilding and maritime technology, textiles, clothing, leather and footwear.
the digital services act, which parliament is involved in, will provide rules to ensure secure shopping in the digital environment.
commissioner, i ask you to use this kind of thinking to guide your future activities, to devote energy to protecting quality agricultural, indigenous products, and thus to help both farmers and consumers.
mr president, commissioner, the war in ukraine has exposed the structural weaknesses of the european union in a sector as critical as energy.
security of supply, economic and environmental sustainability, energy are the main objectives, especially if we want to become independent from russia and send a clear political message.
we need instruments to mitigate the price crisis, we need to prepare ourselves today for the coming winter through storage and common purchasing, we need european infrastructure to enable the sharing and diversification of supply, just as we need to set up new renewable energy plants and an ambitious energy efficiency programme.
your analysis, commission, says that the states can do without russian energy until winter.
i think that we should not be lighting candles, and a fundamental problem in connection with the rise in energy prices is probably the architecture of the energy market, which, thanks to liberalisation, simply favours speculation and dubious business models.
we must act in the short term, namely by combating energy poverty through social tariffs, free energy quotas and the prohibition of power cuts.
but we also need to take a long-term view - rethinking europe's electricity and gas markets and clearly shifting towards renewable energy.
and we have to understand that energy prices are a social problem.
what we also need is a right to energy, for all.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow citizens, the price of energy rarely, if ever, matches the price of its production and distribution.
just as fake and real pandemics bring huge profits to the pharmaceutical industry, so wars bring huge profits to the energy industry.
the sanctions against both russia and belarus must be strengthened and extended to the energy sector, which supports the russian economy.
the high energy prices must be responded to primarily by action at national level.
no action shall be taken that would cause disruption to the emissions trading system or the electricity market.
in the longer term, the key is to accelerate the transition to our own low-carbon energy solutions, including nuclear power.
it is a world that is no longer forecasting, but living, the dangers of climate change.
progressive trade agreements, like ceta, are helping our economies grow and creating good jobs while protecting high standards for workers, consumers and the environment.
because if we want to free ourselves forever from tyrannies, we must together lead a global transition, also based on renewable energy.
our energy transition is today not only an urgency for tackling climate change, but also a matter of security and international stability.
climate change is one of the biggest threats that humanity has faced in the last centuries, and we need to act urgently.
also in canada, prime minister, where fossil-fuel infrastructure is still being built, where net zero is only planned to be reached by 2050 without any intermediate target, where tar sands, one of the most climate-polluting sources of oil, have been expanded.
to continue this, we now want to go to the ecological areas, use more pesticides, and slow down and delay the implementation of farm to fork and biodiversity strategies.
the sustainable path was always to produce our food with inputs that are also produced within eu boundaries we control and regulate.
we became massively dependent on imports of basic inputs such as feed, fertiliser and energy – dependent in many cases on despots.
you are now saying that we must destroy ecological focus areas in order to feed the world.
instead, here today, we should be supporting sustainable livestock production, such as extensively reared suckler beef.
madam president, the food problems in ukraine began long before the war, when small countries, with the help of their puppet governments, destroyed their domestic production and agriculture in order to allow rich countries to export their waste, surplus and substandard food, which did not meet the standards even for animal feed, to the countries on the periphery of the continent.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow citizens, the modern world and the economy cannot exist without a constant supply of energy.
it is important that the need to continue supporting priority corridors to cover different geographical regions that have been isolated from the rest of the european energy networks, to strengthen existing cross-border interconnections and to ensure security of supply, to support diversification of supply, which is very important in the context of the current war launched by russia, but also to stabilise energy prices, has been understood.
we look forward to the sixth list of projects of common interest and want to see in this list the modern projects that will provide the necessary energy mix for 2030 and 2050.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if we look back a little, we see that europe's foundations are based on energy.
we can talk about the european coal and steel community and then the european atomic energy community and so on.
but today, europe is more dependent on russian energy than ever before.
from february 24th to today, we are witnessing tectonic disruptions in europe's energy supply.
the european union's unanimous position on common defence and security and energy autonomy puts us in a position of responsibility in terms of strategic autonomy, since the threats are real.
the joint resolution rightly supports the establishment of safe passageways and humanitarian corridors for the evacuation of civilians, the strengthening of eu humanitarian aid networks in ukraine, the investigation of alleged crimes against humanity and war crimes, the imposition of strict sanctions on russian oligarchs linked to the putin regime, compensatory measures and alternative supplies of goods and energy sources in order to reduce the negative impact on civilians, as well as effective measures against unacceptable profiteering, having, inter alia, drawn lessons from the pandemic response measures.
the coronavirus crisis and climate policy are not the focus of attention right now, and the same is true for digital policy.
we believe that by doing so, we create a trusted environment that allows for fair data sharing, and we very much hope that this will be embraced in practice.
as such, the data governance act appears to be the most sustainable and relevant solution to exploit the enormous potential of data.
its main objective is to enhance the use of data by increasing the mechanisms that ensure trust in this process, a strengthening that will allow us to create shared data spaces at european level in strategic sectors such as energy, mobility and health, benefiting european people and businesses.
the launch of the domestic data economy and the development of the digital ecosystem, including the data economy ecosystem are a matter of greatest importance.
i think this act will enable the reuse, most importantly, of public sector data, that will help us tackle some of the biggest challenges before us, be it environmental, be it health or in the energy sector.
and right now, energy and food prices are going up, and to stabilize a housing and care infrastructure, care+, which we're deciding today, is the best package of aid.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of the environment and the fight against climate change, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the fight against climate change.
and it's clear that it depends on environmental influences, but also on socio-economic circumstances, and those, as we all know, in these last two years have been anything but simple and easy.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the recognition of organic farming as a strong component of the european union's journey towards more sustainable food systems.
the escalation of tensions in diplomatic relations with russia is playing into the hands of warmongers who are 10,000 kilometres away from the conflict, the very same people who are not risking any energy penalty, but who are certainly pursuing their economic and geopolitical interests on the back of thousands of deaths.
the lack of energy sources needed for the transition will certainly not speed up the process, but will irreversibly undermine it, because buying liquefied gas from america at 30 per cent higher costs and, above all, with higher emissions from transport and extraction is not only a bargain for the usa and a slap on the wrist for europe, but it goes in the opposite direction to the environmental objectives set.
in the field of transport, the european commission and the member states have done much more since the start of the war than, for example, in the energy sector.
all transport sectors are affected, both by the impact of the rise in energy prices and by operational problems affecting all modes of transport and the people working in the sector.
options which the people and workers are already paying for and which will contribute to severe impacts on the transport and tourism sectors, with the speculative exploitation of economic groups to increase profits, imposing higher energy and fuel prices, the increase in the cost of living and inflation, with the aim of increasing the exploitation of ukrainian refugees in the tourism sector.
do you realize that the transportation industry, in addition to dealing with the effects of the pandemic and war, now has a herculean challenge to meet ambitious and demanding environmental goals?
the fear of travelling, due to uncertainties about the future, inflation and the spiraling energy prices, is having a serious impact on the recovery of the european economy, particularly in the transport and tourism sectors.
the price situation for the entire commodity chain explodes with the rise in the price of energy.
we all seem to understand that the fundamental problem with our energy policy is the discrepancy between long-term objectives and actions that need to be taken in the short term.
well, i think not, that unfortunately we are not ready for that, and with the energy storage regulation agreed with the council today, we have lost an opportunity to send a clear signal and to immediately deprive russia of at least some of the revenues from the gas trade.
the main challenges faced by the islanders, mr president, commissioners, colleagues and friends, are the lack of basic infrastructure, poor transport links with the mainland, high prices, a shortage of labour and a lack of sustainable economic activities that are not exclusively seasonal.
in the week when we are discussing the legislative package for the green transition, which aims to prevent the undesirable consequences of climate change, i also want to express from this place our solidarity with the croatian citizens who have been affected by this severe weather.
dear chairman, dear colleagues, dear citizens, declaring carbon dioxide and fossil fuels the enemy of the people is a completely insane move by the european union.
we're going to be completely uncompetitive to the rest of the world, and the impact on climate change, what we're going to do as 500 million people, is going to be completely negligible compared to the impact that nine and a half billion people make on the world.
because everything is actually said in the debate: climate change, good working conditions, health union, especially with the experience of covid-19 and the pandemic, a consistency of values and the further development of values that drive citizens when they look at everyday life and the challenges of climate change, solidarity and peace with a view to ukraine and the russian war there.
mr president, more than two thirds of european citizens believe that climate change affects them on a daily basis.
more than half of europeans consider climate change the main challenge for the future of the union, and 87% agree that fighting climate change means improving their own health and well-being.
nine out of ten young europeans are extremely strong on environmental protection.
you might think that 2024 is still a long way off, that the electorate can still be fooled, that the environment is less important than other issues, that the world will forget by then who is voting in the european parliament or in the national parliaments.
ignoring the issue of illegal logging, we vote against greenhouse emissions.
now, we all know that illegal logging is not just environmental crime.
if you think that the polluted environment, the destroyed biodiversity and all the climate change stops at your borders, again, you're wrong.
please support this motion for a resolution and the associated question as additional steps to move closer to the objectives of the green plan and to combat the environmental crimes that kill european citizens.
this eu forest strategy, which we adopted last year, which is anchored in both the european green deal and the eu diversity strategy, builds on the multiple roles played by forests for the climate, biodiversity, society and the economy.
our goal is to overcome the challenges related to climate change and biodiversity loss and at the same time to promote the bio—economy to unlock the potential of forests for our future.
if we want the european union to succeed in its transition towards sustainability, we will need forests that are bigger, healthier and more resilient than today.
in this spirit, the forest strategy shows how increased climate and biodiversity ambitions can go hand-in-hand with economic prosperity.
energy prices, whether we're talking about oil, gas or electricity, are going up, commodity prices are going up, food prices are going up.
profit and short-term solutions, or earnings, should never be above sustainability and the law, but unfortunately in many cases today, only profit has become important.
it will also make it easier to sanction offenders and, most importantly, preserve both nature and the environment for future generations in the long term.
in these projects, you will not be surprised to hear that green reminds you of the challenge of the ecological transition to respect the biophysical limits of the planet.
croatia is also at the forefront of climate change, but also has enormous potential in terms of renewable energy.
we need an eu that not only leaves the big guys in charge, but above all gives citizens a say, and an eu - you have indicated this - that fights poverty: we talk about food prices, energy prices and much more; i think that we need to do more.
we are aware of this and therefore must take all measures in time to mitigate the consequences, whether it is to care for refugees, to ensure energy supplies or to protect food supplies.
the theme of this question time is: more ambitious eu biodiversity targets ahead of cop 15. the question time will last about 90 minutes.
so the first part of my answer to you is that we have strong legislation here in the eu with the biodiversity strategy, now also with the nature restoration legislation and other pieces of legislation, which allows us to lead the way.
last but not least, i’m very thankful that you have mentioned the food security issue there, because exactly due to biodiversity loss, exactly due to ecosystem degradation, this is the biggest threat to our food security and i think this has to be addressed immediately.
so i think this food insecurity which is now very much at the centre of attention, caused by russian war crimes and even a bigger war crime is committed when the port of odessa is blocked, must be also one of the topics that should be mentioned in cop15 and especially the biodiversity’s and ecosystem’s importance for food production.
but then, when we see the situation also here in the eu, our farmers already lose every year more than eur 1 billion in crop yields just because of biodiversity loss.
and i think, you know, when we look at developing countries, we see that there is an urgent need to help them, but to help them not only with development funding, but also ensuring that they have the environment which can produce.
last but not least, when we speak about the paris moment for biodiversity and the environment, what we want to do with the cop, and when you mentioned at the beginning that the rounds in geneva and nairobi didn’t bring the result that we expected, you’re absolutely right.
we managed not only to already have a significant increase on biodiversity funding, but also we have very ambitious domestic legislation, which has been proven to be working.
i think when we speak about any agreement, funding we know is going to be a complicated part, especially when we talk about biodiversity.
we as the eu, and president von der leyen, have very clearly showed our leadership already in doubling our funding for biodiversity from eur 3.5 billion to eur 7 billion.
so it is extremely important that those funds would be used without doing harm to our environment, to our climate targets.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, the climate is changing.
it doesn't take a genius to say that, but what i think we need to know is the fact that this climate impact is also impacting a variety of fundamental resources.
and because of that, i have a feeling that we're a little bit less focused on the sea and a little bit more on pollution in the air and in the land, and i want to get that right.
for this reason, and since we see that the biodiversity in the sea is changing, especially in the adriatic sea, new species of fish are coming in and so on and so forth... i ask you, is the commission aware of this and what will the commission do to solve this problem?
– first of all, there is no chance that we can succeed in the fight against climate change or halting biodiversity loss without the oceans playing a vital role, oceans, of course, including the sea basins that we all know best.
it must be also a clear visibility at cop in sharm el-sheikh, too, because without healthy oceans, without their mitigation functions, without absorption of co2, we won’t be able to fight climate change.
climate change is already putting huge pressure on our oceans and we see this with very quickly changing ecosystems, biodiversity, within our oceans.
we need to be aiming at and reaching our 30% goal that we have in our biodiversity strategy.
we cannot waste any more opportunities.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, russia’s invasion of ukraine makes the security, development and sustainability of central and eastern europe even more strategic.
madam president, dear colleagues, the three seas initiative has been established at the joint initiative of croatia by our former president, madam grabar—kitarović, and poland during the inaugural summit in dubrovnik in 2016. it’s encouraging to see the continued common commitment of the 12 member states and their partner countries to boost cooperation in matters of energy, digitalisation and transport.
by joining forces in the investment of infrastructure we strengthen regional interconnectivity and mutual support while reducing the dependency on energy suppliers such as russia.
we can only tackle the question of energy security and resilience through close cross—border cooperation, and the three seas initiative offers concrete solutions.
it was developed in the hope of increasing the connectivity of the region and in the light of promoting joint investments in the areas of infrastructure, transport, energy and digitalisation.
one of the objectives of the initiative is also to reduce the energy dependence of the countries of central and eastern europe on russia in the field of energy policy and in general.
yes, energy connectivity is important, but so is transportation, because transportation is the lifeblood of a country's economy and the movement of its citizens.
the coming years will be decisive in preventing severe impacts of climate change.
and, of course, here i have to mention that in 2020 alone, the bank invested a eur 24 billion in climate action, confirming its position as being the largest multilateral financer of climate action.
this will help even more the countries with small and medium revenue to create sustainable growth, promote human rights, reduce poverty and inequality and improve human life.
when europe turned its focus to attempt to address the climate crisis, we led the way among international financial institutions.
in 2021, the share of eib investments that went into climate action and environmental sustainability projects rose to a record eur 27.6 billion or 51% of eib business.
it is easy to hide behind the virus and behind the war when it comes to the climate objectives and gdps.
we will not backtrack on our climate action financing.
without new solutions, we will not be able to save our planet, nor will we achieve energy independence.
energy, food security, life sciences, pharmaceutics and key information technologies are areas where europe must be more autonomous.
the new tripartite agreement with the european court of auditors and the european commission provides a code of conduct for members of the management committee and the new environmental and social sustainability framework and, of course, as a matter of top priority, policies related to the well-being of our staff, gender and diversity.
investeu, along with the recovery and resilience facility, will help to shift eu growth to new green and digital sectors, strengthen our leadership in research, development and innovation, and boost the vibrant start-up ecosystem in the eu.
on 10 may, the european commission and the eib signed under the efsd a guarantee agreement through which the eu will provide a guarantee covering eur 26.7 billion in financing to support investments in several sectors such as green energy, green infrastructure and health.
a final word on climate change.
increased investments in renewable energy and energy efficiency will be key for achieving this objective.
the eib has been a frontrunner among comparable financial institutions in making climate action the key priority of its activity and i trust this will continue despite the current difficult global context.
and that is what i think we have to do, the commission together with the eib and the member states, obviously, to find solutions to be able to help now, in this impasse, in these overlapping crises, the economic environment, because, after all, without the functioning of the economic environment, we have no budget either at national level or at european level.
for the rest, we are, of course, always very thankful for the transformation that you have put into the eib from an investment bank into europe’s climate bank.
i think the current energy crisis also very clearly shows the errors of the past that we are suffering from at this moment, because our failure to get rid of fossil dependency is something that we are paying for now on a daily basis still.
energy independence is the answer to a strong geopolitical union.
meanwhile, climate change is still having very much effect on our daily life.
i think these two together – energy independence and climate change – should be addressed together, and i think the eib is on its way to that.
but i just would like to hear very clearly from you that when you are having your mid—term evaluation of the bank’s energy lending policies, and the climate roadmap, that you will not put into question the end of fossil subsidies for gas, and stand up to those member states pushing for new openings for eib support for fossil fuel investments.
thank you very much, and we keep on fighting and supporting you in the fight against climate change as the climate bank.
there are important priorities, and that's war and covid, but they override, mr. president, environmental issues.
i would like to say that we welcome the decision of the european investment bank to become the climate bank of the european union.
this approach must be strengthened, completed and not distorted by the new data on the uncertainty created by the energy crisis.
on the contrary, the european investment bank needs to do more to support the acceleration of investment in the european union's energy security, the reduction of energy poverty and the promotion of the principle of energy efficiency.
madam president, the european investment bank has a pretty good track record for the last years and commitment, willingness and capability, including in environmental matters and considerations on its worth.
avoid incineration and start taking into account circular economy principles, low toxicity as well as the huge demands that we have on the biodiversity side.
madam president, there are many positive elements here, but one in particular is the focus on human rights due diligence in the new eib environmental and social sustainability framework, calling for the development of a specific human rights strategy; a commitment that a gender perspective be at the centre of eib activities; a strong focus on anti-money laundering and combating financing terrorism, including the fight against organised crime; a request for the extension of the right of access to info by the eca in relation to operations implementing eu policies; and deploring that the new tripartite agreement between the commission, the eib and eca do not represent an improvement to the situation with no enhanced role of the eca in terms of auditing powers regarding activities of the eib.
ten years ago, you made us all pull out those conventional light bulbs, ban the 60w bulbs and introduce the energy-efficient ones, supposedly, 10-15w.
in this context, i particularly welcome the fact that the eib's investment in energy in europe has increased from eur 10 billion to eur 14 billion between 2018 and 2021. this trend of increasing energy investment must continue as achieving the energy security of the european union is of key importance.
we are particularly aware of this in circumstances where high energy prices threaten the living standards of citizens.
energy diversification projects, such as the construction or increase of lng terminal capacity, are part of the response to the energy crisis and as such need to be accompanied by adequate financing from the european investment bank.
the security of europe and the preservation of our way of life are directly linked to the achievement of eu energy independence and all the sources of funding we have at our disposal, including european investment bank loans, must be subordinated to this.
is it ecological to walk around empty trucks or is it not ecological?
let's go, for example, to environmental protection in croatia, to waste management.
why do they build waste management centers that break down every five minutes?
why does it go hand in hand with the waste lobbies in croatia?
european money has become a means of environmental devastation, more expensive services and public outrage.
i agree with the proposer of the debate that cycling should be acknowledged as a transport mode that is as valid as any other, and that its benefits in health and reduced road congestion should be recognised – not to mention the fact that a cycle strategy will be crucial to our efforts in tackling climate change and reducing our co2 emissions.
when we are talking about transport policy and the future of sustainable transport – whether it be active mobility on a bike or public transport on a train – let’s be ambitious.
so let’s work to promote sustainable mobility.
madam president, madam commissioner, mr minister, this item is entitled 'eu response to rising energy prices in europe'.
the european union, in this case, as with the pharmaceutical companies during covid-19, is watching the crisis grow rich in "energy" while people are falling apart.
mr. president, the eu's response to the energy crisis shows that the authorities do not understand what lies ahead.
the only way to solve the crisis is to find enough cheap energy on which the current economy is built.
you can't be a developed country and not use energy.
building alternative and renewable infrastructure will take decades, so croatia is now working on a new gas storage facility, which will not be ready until 2027. in the long term, all countries should strive for energy independence.
however, for the winter that is coming and the next, if we want to avoid the collapse of the european economy, a future without industrial products, without enough food and heating, we must abandon the counterproductive energy sanctions and restore trade with the russian federation.
your honor, the current rise in energy prices and supply disruptions are the most important issues plaguing our citizens, and rightfully so.
the energy crisis has shown us that some european countries made a big mistake when they took the hasty populist move of closing nuclear power plants, and thus only increased their dependence on russia.
nuclear energy is not only important for the transition to renewable energy, but also represents a clean and cheap long-term solution for europe.
wind and solar power will never be able to solve the european union's energy problems on their own.
we also need to continue to reduce the union's energy dependence by diversifying energy sources and supplies and building interconnections.
we cannot be candid any longer and we cannot forget these ten years in which we are working and which we are not going to waste: the democratic rule of law has rules, and they do not concern only majorities, they have internal rules, so i understand that today the president of the commission has indicated that promises must be turned into deeds before we can move forward in mutual trust.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states.
and now because of these sanctions and the disconnection of energy, this cheap and easily available energy is disappearing and the whole system is collapsing.
and by that i mean, first of all, help with energy pricing and supply chains and the procurement of scarce materials, educated and skilled labor and so on and so forth.
therefore, i believe that public-private partnership is the keyword that must dominate the european industrial strategy if we want, and i believe we all want, together, that europe's, i would say, industry 4.0 is successful, competitive, sustainable in the global market.
my question is: do you think that a greater reliance on nuclear energy as a cheap and clean source of energy can boost the competitiveness of european industry vis-à-vis global competitors?
do you think that the european union should rely more on nuclear energy to make its companies more competitive in the global market?
i think we need to rely more on nuclear power, on our own power plants, on strategic autonomy in all segments, and especially on energy.
so i'm pleased to be here today, in this plenary, proud to say that we've achieved one of the biggest victories for consumers and the environment, that the single charger, by 2024, will be a reality.
it should also be noted that the introduction of a single charger will bring practical and financial benefits to consumers, as well as environmental benefits.
it is estimated that by reducing the production and disposal of new chargers, we will reduce the amount of e-waste by almost 1000 tons per year, which shows our environmental responsibility.
indeed, there are many – starting with energy and ending with the social consequences of the crisis.
we must not think that the energy crisis is the worst thing that will hit europe this winter.
mr. president, in addition to the brutal violation of international law, the open threat of nuclear attack, the russian regime has also begun to use energy as an instrument of war against europe, as a means of political and economic blackmail.
it is therefore essential to return to the basic european policies, common sense policies, particularly in the fields of defence, security and energy.
such toxic reflexes, which find their pattern today in russia and privileged political, energy and economic ties in relations with moscow, harm serbia, harm europe as a whole.
mr. chairman, the budgets of the citizens are under attack from at least three sides: inflation that dates back to before the war, the rise in energy prices and, ultimately, the collapse of the economy, which will reduce employment and incomes for many.
the only solution is to get enough cheap energy, otherwise our economies and our households will collapse.
a eurobond or a new european fund to deal with the energy crisis.
we must have a budget that helps make europe strong, a geopolitical europe, with strategic autonomy, and that is why we need programmes for the energy union, the digital union, health, strengthening the civil protection mechanism, security and defence.
they 're well known: the war in ukraine, the effects of covid, geopolitical relations, energy and so on and so forth.
less sovereignty, fewer companies, fewer farmers, fewer fishermen, fewer jobs, fewer public services, less growth, less energy and less purchasing power.
and let us not forget that no one has been unaware of the major energy crisis, an energy crisis that some would like us to believe is the only fact of the ukrainian conflict.
we have put forward proposals to mitigate these limitations, including, among others, increased funding for cohesion funds and production support in the eaggf and eaggf, the creation of a transport posei to respond to the problems of the outermost regions, support for public services and the reversal of liberalisation and the restoration of public control in the energy sector - these are some of the many proposals to respond to the problems facing the people.
this definitely means focusing on securing energy supplies, continued investment in security and defence and support for humanitarian aid, but also preventing the new migration crisis.
the european union is currently facing extremely complex challenges in the form of high energy prices, high inflation, questionable economic growth and the consequences of the war in ukraine.
in europe, there can be no condoning any form of state role in the artificial creation of migration pressure, especially when it comes to a regime that still finds its model in russia and privileged political and energy relations with moscow.
how can the 27 eu member states, together with many other political forces on our continent, tackle the crucial question of the radical socio-ecological transformation needed to tackle climate change and restore peace?
the meeting of the leaders of european countries from iceland to azerbaijan in prague, madam president, discussed, among other things, energy and energy independence.
our prime minister, who works against his own country and its energy capacity, cannot give energy advice to other countries in prague.
under the leadership of this ruling party, various corrupt networks have developed in croatia that undermine the energy system.
they were eager to seize the opportunity, under the guise of increasing the price of energy in the international market, to further grab the pockets of citizens to take for themselves.
the use of energy as an instrument of war against europe, as a means of political and economic blackmail, calls us to respond even more unitedly and even more intelligently.
the war in ukraine, who cut off the supply of cheap energy to european citizens than the leadership of the european union.
we also need to strengthen our energy independence through the process of green transition, but we also need to ensure, in a smart way, sufficient funding for our entrepreneurs, researchers and students.
ukraine will therefore be able to concentrate on fighting off the invader, as well as on repairing its energy and other crucial infrastructure that the invader has been destroying on purpose, with the sole objective of inflicting further hardships on the people of ukraine as winter approaches.
about 50% of the energy infrastructure has been destroyed, including many power plants.
they therefore deserve, first and foremost, a secure and peaceful, but also a sustainable and digital european future.
the path to a digital decade programme reinforces the eu’s position as a digital leader and promotes human—centred, inclusive and sustainable digital policies.
the past number of decades has seen significant developments in the internet, the digital economy and electronics, and the digital decade policy programme will ensure the eu achieves its aims for an inclusive and sustainable digital transformation.
cinnie is going to work towards the goal of preventing climate change at the united nations and going to stop global climate change.
a uachtaráin, the energy charter treaty plays a key role in energy policy across europe.
i welcome efforts by the eu and its member states to drive the modernisation process of the energy charter treaty, particularly on investment protection standards and the fostering of sustainable development.
i also welcome the position to end protections granted to investments in economic activities considered to be significantly harmful and that undermine the eu’s climate objectives.
it is clear the energy charter treaty is in need of reform, particularly given the current energy crisis and the fight against climate change.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because the growing wolf populations in the european union and the problem that these populations allegedly pose to biodiversity and traditional livestock farming in europe, as well as the need for a joint assessment of the conservation status and transboundary measures to protect and manage the population of large predators in a scientifically sound manner, meet the ecological requirements of wolf species that inhabit large areas and make large migrations.
the last days, the last weeks: migration strategy, schengen, electoral law, energy, price cap on gas, taxation policy, the minimum rate on multinationals, further sanctions and further financial aid to ukraine, where we need to find now a solution with 26 instead of a solution inside the union.
what we are going to discuss is ukraine, and we’re going to discuss energy.
let us all, please, deal with this matter with full energy.
madam president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, this year in italy, in the face of demands for 300 gigawatts of renewable energy, we will only be able to connect three of them to the grid, a real figure which shows how the authorization procedures at the different levels, whether national, regional or territorial, represent the real obstacle to be overcome.
we therefore welcome this measure, which provides for concrete instruments to identify so-called acceleration zones for renewable energies, where plants will benefit from faster authorisation procedures.
we also welcome the prevailing public interest concept for the authorization and planning of renewable energy plants, recognizing their priority for our economy and society.
the deployment of renewable energy and the increasing integration of the energy mix of different member countries, due to the war in ukraine, have not only an environmental value, but also a strategic value, in defence of our sovereignty and our freedom.
without breaking down the great wall of bureaucracy, the challenge of the energy transition will remain a goal on paper only.
the war in ukraine has finally brought home to many that we need to accelerate the expansion of renewable energy.
in addition to the climate crisis, we must not forget that we also have a biodiversity crisis, as the un cop15 that is currently taking place makes very clear.
the dramatic loss of biodiversity is a ticking time bomb.
the protection of nature must not therefore fall under the umbrella of climate protection.
take, for example, the widespread industrial wasteland for renewable energy development instead of natural land.
we need a green energy transition, and it's not just about replacing fossil fuels with renewables.
climate protection is also nature protection.
germany spent eur 342 billion on energy saving measures between 2010 and 2018. that's the equivalent of three swedish budgets.
nevertheless, the energy consumption was almost the same.
we need to move away from inefficient and expensive detailed management and start investing in climate action that actually makes a difference.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, fellow citizens, in recent months we have declared the cheap energy sources, gas and oil, our newest enemies, the new enemies of the european union.
and we started buying the same energy at several times the price of our allies.
the reason for the sharp increase in inflation is not only the consequences of russian aggression against ukraine, but also the consequences of implementing a reckless, unwise climate policy, moving away from fossil fuels, as well as the consequences of a false transformation leading to the dependence of the european union on russia.
so i wanted to ask the commissioner why other financial institutions have not been excluded from the emissions trading market so far.
you're supposed to be sensitive because you support this horrendous, idiotic climate policy that leads to increased energy poverty.
it's time to redefine climate policy.
madam president, the european union and governments are trying to hide the causes of the precision that is tormenting the people, but they are not hidden: wages and hunger pensions with increases that are cuts; the explosive inflation from the recovery funds and the expansionary policy of the green and digital strategy of the european union and governments, with plenty of money for capital, which the people pay dearly with "green joys" in energy, fuel, food, rent; the climate war with n.t.
in the face of the mockery of the poverty baskets, the "small-scale struggle" between liberals and social democrats, the organization of the people's struggle for real increases in wages and pensions, the abolition of indirect taxes on fuel, energy and food, the emancipation of the people in breach of the commitments of the european union and the age-old strategy of governments serving capital must now be strengthened.
the inflation we are experiencing today is due to two main causes: energy and, unfortunately, food.
11 % of costs in agriculture are on average energy costs.
in addition, there are currently high fertiliser prices, which are also partly a consequence of high energy prices.
it simply cannot be that many of our citizens are having to save on food while energy companies, food retailers and fertilizer manufacturers are raising their balance sheets.
so basically we need three things: we need a clear price ceiling on energy, we need a functioning fertiliser market again, and we also do not need new legislative initiatives that threaten food security and supply in europe.
the war in the ukraine, extremely high energy prices, the impact of the pandemic, the consequences of climate change – what we needed and what we need is collective action to protect people and small businesses from the disruptive effects of these challenges on normal life.
but yes, do raise taxes on profits, wealth and pollution.
the need in our era of high energy prices is compensation for the many, taxation for the few.
unfortunately, those hopes were dashed on february 24th when this unfortunate war in ukraine began and the energy price spike and inflation that followed.
it turned out that europe was not ready for such a brutal energy war.
therefore, commissioner gentiloni, i believe that the priority for the commission's work in the coming year should be to stop inflation, to strengthen renewable energy sources and to simplify paperwork for citizens and the economy, and to continue to provide assistance and subsidies from the commission and the member states to the most vulnerable groups.
many, many investments can wait, but this one i'm talking about can't wait, if we want a better, happier and more pleasant 2023.
dear chair, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, inflation, driven in large part by the energy crisis and the disruption of supply chains due to the war in ukraine, has had a major impact on the purchasing power of citizens in the european union.
one of the causes of the energy crisis is the wrong policy decisions of the countries that decided a decade ago to replace cheap and reliable nuclear energy with russian gas, and this should be clearly stated.
in such circumstances, it was precisely the diversification of energy sources, through the construction of lng terminals, that proved to be one of the solutions.
the commission has also proposed that the eu should be able to provide the eu with a comprehensive set of rules on the protection of the environment.
however, as a long-term solution, it is necessary to build a fully-fledged single european energy market under strict supervision in order to prevent speculation.
only an energy-based europe can provide security for citizens and businesses in times of crisis.