in the current political climate that is so often shaped by polarisation and antagonism, he was able to build bridges and bring people together.
president sassoli and i saw eye-to-eye on many big challenges that our continent is facing today – be it on climate change or on the need for a truly social europe.
it is in this house that we must double down on our commitment to fight climate change and become the world’s first carbon neutral continent.
it is here where we must be able to find the way forward on migration, on energy, on digitalisation, on health, on equality, on a new economic model, on defence, on solidarity and social justice.
i pledge to work with all my energy in the name of this parliament and for the good of european citizens.
dear fellow europeans, climate change is ravaging our continent and our world.
the european green deal and the pledge to be the first carbon—free continent is the right answer.
this is not only a necessity and an urgency, but it is also an opportunity for europe to take the lead, to reinvent itself, to ensure growth, sustainability and prosperity, while reducing emissions.
we must impress on the rest of the world that the fight against climate change is a common destiny – because tomorrow is too late.
and we must continue to show that you cannot decouple the environment and the economy.
businesses, from start-ups and smes to larger corporations across our union, require legal certainty, easier access to funding and an innovative spirit and environment in europe.
and we have made clear what my group stands for here in the european parliament: we are committed to greater democratization, to a stronger social european union, to the respect of ecological aspects, to the inclusion of feminism on the agenda of this parliament and, yes, to anti-fascism in the spirit of the predecessors whose office you are assuming today.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment.
247 votes in favour of the proposal the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, 299 votes pinus picierno: the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome.
527 votesevelyn regner: the president of the republic of poland 434 votespedro silva pereira: the president of the republic of the philippines the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which sets out the main priorities for the year.
a presidency with a sovereign europe agenda is essential, as we face multiple challenges - health and economic challenges, migration challenges, climate challenges.
twenty years after the proclamation of our charter of fundamental rights, which included the abolition of the death penalty throughout the union, i hope that we can update this charter, in particular to be more explicit on the protection of the environment or the recognition of the right to abortion.
growing inequalities, deindustrialisation, and new challenges, especially the climate and digital challenges, have brought our continent to the brink of doubt.
climate is the first of these challenges.
europe is the place where a global climate awareness was born in paris in 2015. it is the continent that, with the objective of carbon neutrality by 2050, has set itself the most ambitious targets on the planet.
to encourage all actors, at home and around the world, to respond to the ecological requirement.
this is the very meaning, in particular, of the carbon adjustment mechanism at the borders that we have been waiting for for years.
we will also have to bring our objectives and the reconciliation of our objectives in the fight against biodiversity and against global warming and climate change.
as such, we will have an important summit for the oceans in february where several member states, the commission and several of us will have an important strategy to present, because we are a great maritime power and we have an agenda to defend here too, in terms of biodiversity.
we need a power of anticipation that organizes the safety of our environment.
as you have understood, the aim of this agenda is to find together a europe that is a power of the future, that is to say, a europe capable of responding to the climate, technological and digital challenges, but also geopolitical ones, an independent europe in that it still gives itself the means to decide for itself its future and not to depend on the choices of the other great powers.
second, with an education, health and climate agenda for the development of the continent and the hope of african youth.
despite the pandemic, we have already embarked on the modernization of the economy and society towards a more sustainable way of living and working, a way of living that preserves both the health of the planet and the livelihoods of our people.
with its eur 800-billion recovery programme we are not only investing to finally put the pandemic behind us, we are also investing in our sustainable and digital future.
united we will overcome the pandemic and deliver sustainable growth.
yes, we are committed to the fight against climate change, but when we discuss the issues of the ‘green deal’ in the next two years, we have to take care about the poor.
energy poverty is unacceptable for us in europe.
higher energy costs will also bring high inflation, and that will also be a problem for the poor in our societies.
we must complete the reforms on the table, such as the establishment of minimum wages throughout the european union, the regulation of the working conditions of workers on the platforms, the creation of a living wage or the launching of the social climate fund.
a strong europe will be one that leads a more just and sustainable energy transition, avoiding catastrophic climate change.
we are aware of the special circumstances of france or germany, but the commission's proposal on nuclear energy and gas cannot undermine our world leadership in renewable energy, the only green energy.
everything was there: economic sovereignty, european values, the project of civilization, even the climate and biodiversity.
we all know that global warming is the greatest challenge facing humanity today.
but fighting for the climate is not just a survival imperative.
if europe decides to do so, this can be an extraordinary opportunity to give our economy a new meaning, to innovate, to create quality jobs, to develop our territories in a sustainable way, to rebuild a just, supportive, caring and democratic society.
you are following another path, mr president, that of a climate-killing alliance with poland and hungary.
you are promoting gas to save a nuclear power plant that is about to go bankrupt and you are sacrificing europe's climate ambition in the process.
you will go down in history, mr. president of the republic, as the president of climate action.
you'd rather sign armistice deals with the lobbyists than fight the war on climate change.
the youth so terrified of the ecological catastrophe.
and yet, this youth is so strong with their creativity, their inventiveness, their diversity and their commitment to climate and social justice.
you deal with the scientific reality of global warming.
our europe will never be yours, the europe of climate denial, of glyphosate, of the unimpeded movement of goods, services and finance, of walls, barbed wire, lookout points and humiliation for women and men.
i would also like to add another very important priority, namely the climate, where we must insert elements of realism with regard to the current economic, social and business structure of our continent and with regard to the overall assessment of this with the large numbers of the world's major producers.
on many issues italy and france have a common vision and i believe it is time to lead europe out of the drought of immobility, egoism and the double pandemic that affects the lives of all citizens, health and energy.
thirdly, the environmental and energy transition.
there's no more time to waste.
from transport to energy, from industry to finance: all sectors must play their part in saving our planet from disastrous climate change.
but if we want to weigh up the situation, we must never be in a vulnerable situation and this is also a debate we must conduct in the light of this subject which sheds light on how much, i will come back to it, climate strategies.
on the climate transition, you mentioned it when you spoke of the unity of our peoples, and i will come back to this transition, of course, and its importance.
first, there is the just transition fund which was created in 2021 to support the transition of carbon-intensive regions, with a budget of €17.5 billion for 2021-2027. then there is the european recovery plan, the main component of which is the recovery and resilience facility, which will be devoted 37% to the fight against global warming, with real accompanying measures.
finally, there is the creation of a social climate fund, which is a proposal from the commission to accompany the mechanisms.
the choice was made to have a taxonomy on the different energy sources.
i am surprised that anyone is accused, and many have been, of signing agreements on social, environmental and energy issues with countries such as poland and hungary.
otherwise, you are blocking europe every moment, because tomorrow you or one of your colleagues will say that anyone who disagrees with you on climate, which is more important than anything, no longer deserves to be at the table when we talk about gender equality or when we talk about the rule of law.
then you have renewable energy, which we have to keep developing and we have to do a lot more, which, when we have storage technologies, can replace it.
all international scientists have classified these energy sources as non-intermittent electricity production.
and so, in this respect, to recognize nuclear as a low-carbon energy source is simply a scientific reality.
i would add that, not content with allowing europe alone to implement its transition strategy, because without this text we would not be able to do so, it is consistent with the sovereignty principle, because we produce nuclear energy on our own soil and we import gas, which we hardly produce on our own soil any more.
that is why i consider that defending this taxonomy and nuclear energy is a choice consistent with the fight against global warming and climate change.
i am pleased that we all agreed to carbon neutrality at the end of last year.
and so, whether it was pushing the green deal, whether it was pushing carbon neutrality by 2050, whether it was pushing the fight against glyphosate, we were there, sometimes alone, sometimes in small groups, and we were blamed for being too isolated.
in the same way, in fighting for a border carbon tax, it is a concrete agenda, it is a practical agenda and, in essence, i share the ambition you have advocated.
we have built sustainable reception centres, accommodation centres, where asylum seekers are trained and those who are ready to do so are welcomed, fed and given access to their applications.
the climate agenda we have been talking about is a massive investment, some national, some european.
the minimum wage, the carbon adjustment at the border, the digital regulation.
on climate issues, where the original ambition is being derailed, whether it's taxonomy or burying the energy efficiency first principle.
the rules must apply to all intermediary service providers if we want an online environment that is transparent and accountable for business and consumers, that is, for us citizens.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
the objective of 60 gw of offshore renewable energy by 2030 and 340 gw by 2050 requires coordinated action at european level, simplification of the licensing and regulatory framework.
we could also develop the potential of offshore renewable energy through better maritime spatial planning processes, by involving local communities in consultation, by accelerating funding for research and development in innovative technologies such as floating offshore wind, solar, climate and tidal power installations, and the production of green hydrogen.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we need 800 billion euros in renewable energy for offshore installations to fill the european gap.
honourable members, i welcome your positive remarks, acknowledging the strong contribution of offshore renewable energy to meeting our climate and energy goals, helping address the energy price crisis and supporting the recovery by creating new local jobs.
your remarks are valid and the commission will take them into account as we move on with our work on accelerating the deployment of offshore renewable energy.
i welcome the report and take it as an encouragement for the commission to continue and identify its actions, and i hope that we can count on this house’s full support in tackling them in order to create the huge acceleration in offshore renewable energy that we need in the coming years.
i would also like to add that i think that many of the rapporteurs understood very well the comments on the subject of autonomy, that if we succeed in developing renewable energy at the pace we want, we will increase our autonomy.
then we'll be independent of the sheikhs of the middle east and of putin's iron grip on the use of energy as a weapon.
let's get the renewable energy expansion going.
let's get the energy efficiency up.
the new rules will also be aligned with our new health and environmental priorities, as well as better adapted to the digital transition.
it will put a floor on excessive tax competition between jurisdictions, thus contributing to both fair taxation and to a sound business environment.
let’s note that more than 75% of europeans live in urban areas and thus face very specific urban challenges, such as the lack of affordable housing, the risk of social exclusion, the increasing climate—related disasters, the deepening digital divide and also the growing gender inequalities.
take just the example of climate action, human rights and anti-corruption.
we need to recognise these links so that we can step up to fight for the environment, and we need our mandatory due-diligence law to make sure that no european companies are complicit in these crimes because the health of our planet also depends on the health of our democracy.
we count around 2.8 million entities operating in the social economy ecosystem in europe, including the non-profits.
they are now contributing to paving the way for sustainable and inclusive recovery.
this is precisely that we are engaged in – fostering a supporting environment for civil society.
we should also ensure an enabling environment protecting their fundamental rights.
the report we are debating now is essential because it will finally put in place a long—awaited european legal environment to nurture civil society.
values matter, and there is no more time to waste.
the commission must not waste a single minute more and must apply the mechanism right now.
we must create the european legal and administrative environment that will provide adequate guarantees for the establishment and smooth functioning of civil society, because without independent civil organisations, without an independent civil sphere, we cannot speak of democracy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for this debate and to reiterate the commission's commitment to ensuring that all civil society actors can work in a safe and supportive environment.
an eu that just weeks ago seemed desperately dependent on russian energy, cut itself loose from russian energy and united in record time to impose sanctions on the russian aggressor.
although the situation in ukraine is putting all the important issues in the background, climate change and environmental protection are as pressing as ever.
europe's ambition to become the world's first climate-neutral continent is a major success, but it is also a challenge and an opportunity.
energy consumption by the population has increased significantly.
i therefore welcome the fact that the proposal has been reversed from the irrational target dates for the withdrawal of subsidies, making the union's latest environmental programme more citizen- and wallet-friendly.
protecting the environment and preserving jobs are both important in the current challenging situation.
it is moscow driving energy prices to the sky while orbán is blaming brussels.
energy prices have been rising steadily, exacerbated by the war in ukraine.
energy prices have reached another record high, and a real solution, effective action, is needed.
we need strategic calm on our energy policy.
the only way to deal with rising energy prices is to reduce the cost of electricity.
there were counterexamples in the past, of course, because the hungarian left had previously adjusted the recession costs to market prices, which caused energy prices to soar and my compatriots faced a very high burden.
protect families from high energy prices.
we extend our gratitude and appreciation for guatemala’s strong condemnation of the russian invasion in ukraine and active role in support of ukraine’s sovereignty in the un general assembly, the organization of american states and the international atomic energy agency.
civil society actors are key stakeholders worldwide for the promotion of inclusive and sustainable development.
additionally, good governance, solid institutions and respect for the rule of law have tangible, beneficial effects on prosperity and sustainable economic development.
consumers generate billions of dollars in electrical waste as hundreds of thousands of electronic products are thrown away every day instead of being repaired.
i therefore welcome the european parliament's resolution, which is in the interests of people, business and the environment.
i believe that in the interest of sustainability, consumers should be encouraged to reuse and repair products and manufacturers should be encouraged not to intentionally shorten the life of electronic products.
it is time to give priority to sustainable and environmentally friendly means.
it is unfortunate that it took such a disaster to realise the unhealthy dependence of our continent on russian energy supplies and to start discussions about a unified energy market, based on diversified energy resources and solidarity among member states.
in the past weeks, russia has demonstrated that it’s ready to use energy as a strategic weapon to further its aggressive geopolitical objectives.
it must be clear by now that russia in the long term is an unreliable partner for supplying energy to the eu.
therefore, i would like to ask the commission to focus not only on fossil fuels when it comes to sanctions, but also to target nuclear energy.
mr president, colleagues, the past weeks have demonstrated that russia is not only an expansionist aggressor, but also an unreliable partner when it comes to energy supplies.
it is a tragedy that it took a war of this scale for us to realise the dangers of extreme energy dependence on russia and it is now under these circumstances that we have to find a solution.
if the eu wants to create energy security for all 27 member states and attain full energy independence from external suppliers, it must invest in technologies that so far have been blocked by a powerful gas and oil lobby and sabotaged by short-sighted politicians.
renewables, hydrogen and most importantly energy power based on fusion technology must become a top priority for the eu in the next year and in the decade to come.
europe needs to provide its citizens with a reliable, sustainable and affordable energy supply, despite the unexpected energy challenges posed by the war in ukraine.
i agree that concrete steps are needed, but any new energy policy measures must remain socially fair, consumer-centred and cost-effective for eu citizens.
it should be stressed that low energy prices are essential to keep the european economy competitive, but eu green policies and sanctions proposals seem to work against them.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate change strategy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate action strategy.
they would also be required to pay a significant proportion of the cost of energy independence the commission would provide new resources for only one tenth of the costs incurred as a result of the project.
combating climate change and the green transition are crucial for the future of europe and the world.
but this climate package is the opposite.
a set of irresponsible proposals that run counter to common sense and would cause a significant increase in energy prices per capita across the union.
the adoption of a climate tax would have a particularly adverse impact on european, including hungarian, households and businesses, and would jeopardise the results and sustainability of hungarian climate mitigation.
we can see that because of brussels' irresponsible climate and energy policies, energy prices are already skyrocketing and inflation is rampant.
instead of unrealistic leftist ideas that impede economic growth, we need real climate action that is environmentally and citizen friendly.
the only way we will succeed in fighting climate change, the only way we will succeed in making europe energy independent is if we think about them, if we fight with them, if we go along with them.
the creation of the european social climate fund is also a historic step in this respect.
so i ask you to vote for the creation of the european social climate fund, and let's create it to help people who have problems in their everyday lives paying their everyday bills.
ambitious policy agendas and proposed funding at eu and national level will help to ensure a sustainable and inclusive recovery, enabling europe to achieve the dual transition - green and digital - and to become fairer and more resilient.
this means fragmentation and waste of resources.
it is important that the european commission has finally recognised the role of natural gas storage in the fight against energy prices.
sadly, this has to be seen in the face of the worst energy crisis in decades.
on the one hand, it was possible to prevent the brussels plan, which would have made the countries with large storage facilities, such as hungary, pay the price of european energy security.
the security of energy supply for hungary and europe is our top priority.
we all have a duty to give concrete help to millions of italian and european families, who are being squeezed by inflation and by an unprecedented economic, energy and social crisis.
the first is the failure of energy policy.
by stubbornly sticking to utopian climate goals and ill-conceived sanctions, energy prices are now skyrocketing.
save the billions on those unrealistic climate targets and keep energy affordable and accessible.
they are suffering from soaring prices in all sectors, including food and energy, and, it must be said, after years of the covid-19 crisis, our european peoples are exhausted.
taxing the profiteers of the crisis now so that the record profits of multinationals will stop, controlling energy prices, lowering vat on basic necessities, indexing wages to inflation, increasing the european fund for the poorest so that everyone can eat three times a day - these, mr president, are immediate decisions which would be effective and which could now enable millions of europeans to live and not just survive.
the stakes are high: providing affordable and sustainable energy to our citizens, or jeopardizing the achievements of the past, thereby unleashing runaway prices, unpredictable energy prices on the population.
these energy sources are environmentally friendly technologies that can be used to produce large amounts of low-cost, zero-emission electricity, ensuring the sustainability of member states' mitigation measures.
in the current situation, the key is to maintain the security and affordability of energy supply in a long-term and sustainable manner.
one is that many experts, including experts from the european commission, have already said that it is impossible for the european union to achieve climate neutrality by 2050 without nuclear energy and natural gas.
the second argument, which is very, very important, is that it is also quite clear, and we have heard a lot of experts say that low energy prices in the short, medium and long term, and in those member states where there are measures to reduce emissions, their sustainability, can only be achieved with these two sources of energy in my view.
these patterns should also make it clear to our global partners that without curbing deforestation, all the eu's efforts to mitigate climate change are limited.
let's continue to work together on the green path, let's work together for a greener environment.
as the winter months approach, our main task is to do everything we can to ensure that europeans have access to energy without burdening households and families.
the cap, on the other hand, is a disguised energy sanction that would force russian gas out of the european market.
this would pose a serious risk to energy supply and would not lead to a price decrease.
– although more than 25 years have passed since the barcelona declaration, and more than 10 years since the events of the arab spring, the mediterranean region is still facing a number of serious economic, environmental and security challenges.
i do not share this satisfaction, because today the european parliament and all the eu institutions have to face the biggest challenges facing the european union today: putin, inflation, the energy crisis and the war in ukraine.
(the speaker accepts to reply to an intervention 'blue card')
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
they should lead by example, by respecting the principles of corporate due diligence, the rights of those impacted by investments, and an obligation to preserve our environment.
i welcome the fact that the proposal will significantly reduce the amount of electronic waste, which is an important step towards an environmentally conscious europe, and will make life easier for consumers.
i believe that the most important task in our work in the european parliament is to create future-oriented, consumer-friendly legislation that directly benefits citizens with sustainability in mind.
the renegotiation of the nuclear agreement with iran which is currently under way and the special situation of this country in the midst of a global energy crisis cannot make us look the other way and not see what is happening in iran.
the past weeks have shown how dangerous external dependence on energy can become.
we cannot allow the citizens, families, businesses to pay the price for the wrong decisions of brussels, we cannot allow the energy supply of hungary to be endangered!
the war-weary nations of the world are starting the cop27 climate conference with moderate goals.
the reason for the retreat is the energy crisis and the misguided sanctions.
all of these have increased and will continue to increase energy prices both at european and global levels.
i believe that this climate summit could be an opportunity for us to reassess and rethink the impact of our actions.
let's work together for a green environment, but only with people, not against people.
on the contrary, many are on the brink of bankruptcy because of the rising energy costs, so it’s time to give them more direct support.
in terms of climate objectives, it was mentioned that maybe we should report more often than at the end of the seven-year period.
we have a number of audits in the climate sphere, which are carried out by mainly by our chamber one.
one is actually due to be published next year on climate targets specifically, and obviously part of our effort is also green tagging.
third, the current energy crisis is a challenge for the western balkans as well as for the eu.
the eu has invited the western balkans to join the common eu energy purchases for joint purchasing of gas, lng and hydrogen.
that’s why we’re working on an energy rescue scheme for the entire western balkans.
the immediate measures will include budget support to cushion energy price increases and their impact in particular on businesses, households and smes.
these measures aim to tackle the energy crisis still this winter.
short—term measures will support diversification of energy supplies, will boost gas and electricity interconnectors, new storage facilities and lng terminals.
we’ll also deploy smaller renewable energy projects and energy efficiency measures.
mid—term assistance will include other investments contributing to the energy transition and security.
these measures will cover large—scale renewable energy generation projects, upgrade of electricity transmission systems, district heating and schemes for energy efficiency for the old blocks of flats.
the eu is serbia’s most important political and economic partner, and we want to help serbia address its challenges, including in the area of energy security.
so let’s not waste it.
the black tide produced by the breaking of the hull and the negligent management of the government produced a catastrophe with environmental, economic and social damage.
i have received a request from the left group for a commission statement on the outcome of the modernisation of the energy charter treaty to be added as a second item this afternoon.
(parliament agreed to the request)therefore we will have a commission statement on the outcome of the modernisation of the energy charter treaty.
awaited by businesses large and small, hit by unsustainable energy costs and inflationary pressure, and awaited by many european governments worried about their shrinking budgetary margins.
the european council had on many occasions asked the commission to make concrete proposals in three areas: to curb energy prices, to ensure security of supply and to reduce demand.
the war in ukraine and the energy crisis have directly impacted our economies and our citizens.
secondly, we are well aware - and the war launched by russia shows this in a very brutal way in the energy sector - that it is essential that the european union should be equally sovereign and autonomous in its relationship with china, and that it should therefore not accept any excessive dependence, particularly in the technological sector.
third and last point: it is clear that on topics of global importance, such as the climate, which we discussed a few hours ago at the cop in sharm el-sheikh, it is essential to engage with all the countries in the world that have a responsibility to take on in order to reduce this climate threat.
– thank you very much, madam president, dear roberta, president michel, dear charles, honourable members, indeed, the bulk of the discussion in the european council was about the important topic of energy and the magnitude of the energy crisis calls absolutely for both a sense of urgency and strategic foresight.
i have not forgotten how at the beginning of this war putin tried to put pressure on us through energy and how some feared that we would have blackouts in europe when the war started.
because our choices today will determine whether we have the right energy we need for 2023 and beyond.
we can decide right now either to ignore the lessons that we have learned in this crisis and fall again into the trap of a carbon lock-in for the future or we can use this crisis to leapfrog into clean energy.
this is not only good for our climate but it is also good for our security and our independence, especially in times when gas is and will stay a scarce commodity.
there are countless renewable projects that are just waiting to be approved.
some could deliver cheap energy immediately in a matter of weeks or months.
now, our new renewable energy directive that you have already voted on in plenary addresses this topic.
and this is why today we are proposing a new emergency regulation under article 122, to immediately speed up permitting for renewable energy projects with a rapid impact.
it will be in line with what you have voted on and it will bridge the gap until the new renewable energy directive comes into force.
and by doing so, we can unlock a myriad of renewable projects already in the next 12 months.
according to the calculations by the international energy agency, we could replace 14 billion cubic metres of gas already next year, and that’s almost half of our potential gap i was just describing, just by speeding up the permitting of these projects.
so let’s make sure that this is not a race to the bottom, but this is a race to the top for our climate and for our industry.
it is clear that following the last european council in october, we shall work together now to make sure that we buy gas together, we store gas together, we improve our energy infrastructure, we improve interconnectivity, so we can move energy from where we have it, where it is stored, to those countries, those regions, those enterprises who will need it.
european energy companies have made big profits because of how the european market is organised right now.
energy should be affordable, energy should be safe, energy should be secure for the people of europe.
we should improve our energy efficiency because the more efficient we are, the less energy we need to reach our objectives, the less we are dependent on foreign sources.
we as a european parliament will be voting tomorrow on our position on repowereu that will make available eur 20 billion of additional funds for exactly this energy infrastructure, efficiency, interconnectivity, renewables, reducing dependency on russia.
madam president, president michel, we should also work with the governments of the member states to use the unused loans from the recovery and resilience facility – money still available to put to work, to make it available for those who need it to improve energy infrastructure.
three weeks have passed since the european council meeting and time flies, but the only advantage of talking past due is that it allows us to have a better perspective of what was decided three weeks ago and of the effects that those decisions may have, because the october council meeting was a missed opportunity to act decisively and to stop the tsunami that the energy crisis is causing in the economy.
i recognise that there is no easy solution, but it is our responsibility and we have to combine three important challenges: to lead the fight against global warming, to stand firm in defence of ukraine and to use our tools and new ones to support european industry, businesses and families.
putin’s criminal war in ukraine has unleashed an energy crisis on europe.
our group has outlined a set of concrete and bold proposals: a european energy shield with a windfall tax to redirect big firms’ profits to consumers and struggling small businesses, with joint purchases of energy so that we can pool our negotiating power to bring down prices, with a temporary dynamic price cap for an immediate cut in utility bills and an emergency boost to energy investments because we need to expand supply, ease bottlenecks and speed up the transition to renewables.
the orban government has basically put the brakes on the solar energy sector, not to mention wind energy, which is practically banned in our country.
i understand that we're dealing with other issues right now, energy prices, the war in ukraine, but this is a topic that we should be continually addressing.
this madness will have drastic consequences for the environment and the economy.
lithium is plentiful, but mining is an ecological disaster.
this policy is neither sustainable nor responsible.
there is total disregard for the consequences for our environment, our economy and our human rights.
colleagues from the eu’s side literally teared up as they listened to their testimonies, as they talked about teachers getting fired for striking or the environment of oppression and intimidation, where people are threatened and harassed only for raising their voices.
the effective protection of the digital environment is a major challenge, as regulation needs to be adapted to a rapidly changing environment.
there's a pandemic, there's an economic crisis, there's a war, there's an energy crisis.
it is important that we remain engaged and continue to encourage the qatari authorities to address those remaining challenges, with a view to ensuring the sustainability of the ongoing reforms beyond the world cup and to the benefit of the qatari people and all those residing in the country.
a giant amount of financial resources flowed into a project that was tainted by forced labour, environmental destruction and deep corruption.
europe is in a deep crisis due to unbearable energy prices the union is characterised by declining industries, an economy heading for recession and a declining standard of living.
the cop27 climate summit is a complete failure.
beyond the financial aid to developing countries, which is still in the early stages, commissioner timmermans has only tried to promote the commission's misguided climate ideology.
it must be said that our chief negotiator on eu climate policy is essentially an obstacle to an effective fight against climate change.
the eu alone cannot prevent negative developments, and it is only by working together with our partners outside europe that we can find solutions to climate change.
instead of reckless sanctions that make climate policy impossible, we need real and effective climate action at global level.
i listened with interest to your speech, in which you highlighted the energy crisis, the green transition and the enlargement of the european union to the balkans.
your past and present role in energy deals is filled with unanswered questions.
they expect you to create an environment that is a place for freedom of the press and freedom of thought.
protecting our european values, standing up for the rule of law, facing the climate emergency with courage and ambition: our group, renew europe, is wholeheartedly behind you in the fight for these issues.