the main focuses were climate change, access to education, opportunities to own or rent an affordable home, the devastation caused by this pandemic and access to the job market that’s not just focused on urban areas, but also incorporates rural communities.
and it doesn't change that when you declare nuclear power and gas to be green energy.
we need an effective offshore strategy as a pillar of the fight against climate change, which creates good working conditions for the people who work there, which takes into account the preservation of the marine environment in every single technical solution.
the harmony between the environment, nature and people is what it's all about.
it is time to put the common good at the centre of every decision, especially when it comes to renewable energy.
madam president, the potential of offshore wind is recognized; offshore wind and ocean wind will become increasingly competitive energy sources.
as the report we are voting on tomorrow indicates, the price of energy will also fall as these renewable energy sources are developed and exploited.
wind has doubled its share in the global energy mix over the last five years and the share of offshore capacity will increase in the next period due to the acceleration in key european markets of offshore projects that have recently become operational.
but we need to develop new storage solutions, smart grids and establish a true european energy storage market as soon as possible to stimulate investment in new storage capacity.
my country, romania, has access to the black sea and considerable potential for both fixed and floating wind installations and in this context i want to emphasise the still untapped potential of the black sea, the baltic sea or the mediterranean sea and remind the commission that we need, we need financial support from green deal, from fit for 55, from other funds, so that countries with access to these seas can increase their contribution of offshore wind to the energy mix.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, while we are tackling the complex energy transition, the problems of gas and its supply and the high energy bills with new and fully european proposals, we must, however, without hesitation, change course and take a decisive step in the new direction, which is represented, with our energy priorities, by renewable energy sources, the production of which we must greatly increase.
so we know that we will encounter and there will be, there already are, resistance for various reasons, including landscape reasons, but we have to overcome these resistance, with a lot of patience, with a lot of conviction, looking for the best and safest technical and environmental solutions, and there are.
securing the energy supply with renewable alternatives in the union will be crucial to reaching the 2030 climate targets.
we are now voting on the strategy for marine energy production and we are sad to see too many new energy projects being stopped, not least in sweden.
we need more renewable energy, and we need it now.
more strategies like this are needed to expand renewable energy and strengthen europe's electricity grid.
if we are going to solve the climate crisis together, we cannot be climate nationalists.
a larger energy system with many interconnections increases security of supply, but it also allows for a higher use of renewable energy and makes renewable energy more competitive and profitable.
so now voices are being heard in the swedish debate that instead of dismantling the common energy market and the electricity grid, each country should be able to fend for itself.
this is harmful not only to european cooperation but also to climate action.
the recent game is nothing but climate nationalism and it is damaging our valuable work on the transition to more new energy in europe.
madam president, offshore energy is key to our climate plans.
many countries have harnessed ocean energy, but there is vast untapped potential.
offshore wind is valuable, but we must better integrate this energy with our electricity demand.
we will also be serious in the medium term about the change in energy policy, which is an extremely important issue very soon.
half of them talk about energy independence, but the other half are just running their own pipes because it's good for their economy.
troops crept around empty apartments, an abandoned library, along quiet school playgrounds, all in sight of chernobyl – scene of the world’s worst nuclear accident, where today huge tanks store radioactive waste in the aftermath of that ongoing tragedy.
there is no safe way to store nuclear waste, and disturbing those dumps could have catastrophic impacts on humankind and the environment that crosses multiple borders with the message, when it’s too late, that peace must always be the ultimate goal.
housing, which is a huge issue for young people, as well as pensions, jobs, mental health, which is another huge issue, gender-based violence and climate change – these are all affecting young people.
they think of work and study, our shared culture, human rights, climate change.
mr president, climate change and gender equality are inextricably linked.
climate change has a differential effect, as we know, based on geography, socio—economic background and, of course, gender.
women are disproportionately impacted by the effects of climate change.
there is also the issue of domestic violence, which often comes about after conflict, as a result of shortages caused by climate change.
we know that sectors in which the majority of workers are women are generally more carbon neutral.
let’s not just ‘blah blah blah’ when it comes to climate change and gender equality, let’s take action.
air and noise pollution, are hardly taken into account.
do we need to remind you of the climate emergency and the 800,000 premature deaths every year from air pollution?
if it's good for the climate, it's good for the job.
we will raise our heads and ensure that this parliament meets the demands of the climate challenge, but also the demands, i tell you, of our perspective in transport.
there will be no surcharges on tolls, no compulsory internalisation of environmental costs, there will be a right of veto of the states on corridor tolls, there will be general exemptions for concessionary states, tolls for modern lorries.
first, we should ensure that the costs of transport are fair and that the benefits are equitable, and that the costs of air pollution and climate change are borne by the public.
but burkina faso is facing multiple crises resulting from the compounding effects of deep poverty, food insecurity, conflict, forced displacements, climate change, poor governance and equal access to basic services.
we can help to find a way to democracy, we can participate in that dialogue, but obviously the main thing we can help with is economic aid, so that at least the people who are leaving the countryside of burkina faso, which is increasingly being displaced also due to ecological and natural changes, so that at least these people do not suffer the worst kind of hunger.
geopolitical tensions, rising energy prices, and the post-pandemic economic crisis have created it and amplified it.
it is certainly important for european citizens to know whether there is a clear strategy for integrating our environmental, agricultural and energy objectives and preparing the union's capacity to cope with and respond to future food crises.
– madam president, the commission is very well aware that the energy price crisis has important knock—on effects on the food sector.
food and agriculture are exposed to energy costs, both directly and indirectly, from fertilisers to transport and freight.
energy and fertiliser prices have increased 3.5 times more than agricultural prices at global level.
in view of the central role of energy prices, most of these are clearly beyond the scope of the common agricultural policy.
firstly, to address the difficulties of the food sector, any short—term measures aiming at reducing energy prices and the factors that drive energy prices higher will immediately help the food sector by reducing input prices, relieving the squeeze in farm margins, and contribute to affordable food prices.
as you know, many such measures are the responsibility of member states in the form of taxation, both in energy and other input costs, for example relating to fertiliser, as well as in farm income or in state aid.
any longer-term measures that can contribute to reducing the energy dependence of the eu will obviously help.
such measures are identified in the commission communication of october 2021 on tackling rising energy prices, which included a toolbox for action and support and which you debated on 20 october last year.
but also the new common agricultural policy has the potential to mitigate energy costs in the medium term through its future strategic plans, such as by supporting precision farming, which has the potential to reduce the use of fertiliser without compromising optimal crop growth, encouraging circular agriculture, and the use of organic manure, supporting better use of risk management measures.
an agricultural sector that is less dependent on external sources of energy does not necessarily imply lower production.
not that we're going to get a new cap, a new strategic plan, but they're not going to do anything substantial if the prices of energy, fertilisers and other things remain this high.
if countries with twice the benefit are having a hard time, and energy prices are very similar everywhere, then countries with low benefits are having even more problems.
– madam president, and i think the question does correctly pinpoint one of the key reasons for the rise in commodity and import prices in the agricultural sector as being energy prices, in particular natural gas reaching a new high.
it has the potential to provide a reliable, relatively clean and inexpensive solution to eu’s energy problems, including those of our farmers, with the added benefit of improving eu-russian relations, more trade, reduced barriers and more cooperation.
it could cause instability in an already vulnerable area of its environment.
the un, the us, g7, nato, if we are to have a sustainable and meaningful peace, we cannot only have the women working from the ground up.
we have an energy system that doesn’t serve the people or the planet.
the energy price crisis hasn’t come out of nowhere.
the leaked version of the commission’s forthcoming communication on energy prices suggests that the eu will get liquified natural gas (lng) from the us and qatar to replace russian gas.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the cleanest, most sustainable and cheapest energy is the energy we do not use.
that's why energy efficiency must always come first.
but to build a highly efficient economy powered by 100 percent renewable energy, we need more and more batteries.
the right to repair, the removability of batteries, the restriction of the use of hazardous substances, reuse, recycling and above all the substantial strengthening of the due diligence provisions, which are essential to ensure that the entire value chain, in particular the extraction of rare materials, respects social and environmental standards and human rights.
but a precondition for all of this is to accelerate towards energy independence.
we greens are calling for a european law on energy independence, because diversifying gas purchases is not enough to solve our dependence on fossil fuels.
we need to revolutionise the current energy model and build one that is peaceful, that is democratic, that respects human rights, that creates jobs and fights the climate crisis.
and this model is based on energy efficiency and renewables.
in the last two weeks, the rulebook on energy has been rewritten.
the goals of geopolitics and the climate movement now converge on the need to phase out fossil fuels.
and i strongly welcome the parliament’s position on the batteries in waste batteries regulation.
as renewable energy sources become more and more important, batteries have a key role in balancing the grid.
they are key in electromobility, transforming the transportation sector to carbon neutral.
demand for batteries will dramatically increase in coming years as the whole energy system is also transforming.
this is a great piece of legislation with regard to the sustainability and also the source of materials as the best source is recycled once used materials.
i know in my country there are unused sources for cobalt, graphite and lithium with sustainable working conditions.
i think europe can become an important player in the battery industry by creating a battery ecosystem based on the sustainability requirements and excellent research and innovation and by incorporating values.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it must be recognized that, unlike in the past, when we supported environmental policies in favour of photovoltaics without having a european production, on this occasion the european union is aligning its environmental policies with those of industry and aims to have its own gradual productive autonomy of quality to counterbalance that of third countries.
the time factor is certainly an essential variable, also in the light of the ongoing war, which, should it unfortunately continue, obliges us to pursue our objectives, but at the same time to open a thorough discussion in order to evaluate in a practical way what corrective measures we might adopt to the way in which our environmental strategies are implemented.
it has been said that the demand for batteries will grow exponentially to promote both sustainable mobility and the accumulation of renewable energy, but we also know that unfortunately europe is dependent on third countries for the necessary chemical components.
because let us remember that we will only be able to achieve our ambitious environmental goals if we do not weaken our economy.
with each crisis, it becomes clearer how important energy independence and efficiency are.
i think we are here to ensure that the green transition in the eu is powered by truly sustainable batteries.
i’m very pleased to see the constructive proposals regarding light means of transport and separate waste collection targets.
this may not deliver real environmental gains as expected, and for instance, a doubling of recovery levels of lithium may lead to disproportionate amounts of energy required in the process, and we should carefully analyse and discuss the related amendments.
many of you talked about sustainable sourcing of the raw materials in our batteries, and due diligence is important.
the commission has just made a proposal on corporate sustainable due diligence that will apply across sectors.
so we need to discuss this also in light of the new proposal on corporate sustainable due diligence.
you have it, we all have it: i am thinking of energy, but i am also thinking of batteries, because these two sectors are very closely linked.
so to the few colleagues who have asked us to stop, to abandon the ecological transition, the energy transition, just because we don't have the raw materials to use for batteries, and therefore for our energy autonomy, i ask if we should, by any chance, also go back to the token phone, since batteries are not only for electric mobility, but they are also for our mobile phones.
– given the important role they play in the roll-out of zero-emission mobility and the storage of intermittent renewable energy, batteries are a crucial element in the eu’s transition to a climate neutral economy.
this proposal is designed to modernise the eu’s regulatory framework for batteries in order to secure the sustainability and competitiveness of battery value chains.
it would introduce mandatory requirements on sustainability (such as carbon footprint rules, minimum recycled content, performance and durability criteria), safety and labelling for the marketing and putting into service of batteries, and requirements for end-of-life management, having in mind that more than 1.9 million tonnes of waste batteries are generated annually in europe.
i consider to be consistent with january 2020 resolution on egd, which stressed that the new eu regulatory framework for batteries should cover at least sustainable, ethical and safe sourcing, ecodesign including measures to address recycled content, substitution of hazardous and harmful substances where possible, improved separate collection, reuse, refurbishment, remanufacturing, repurposing and recycling – including higher recycling targets, the recovery of valuable materials, extended producer responsibility, and consumer information.
the framework should tackle the full lifecycle environmental impacts, with dedicated provisions on batteries relating to mobility and energy storage.
– madam president, we are voting on this environment action programme (eap) just a week after the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) published its latest sobering assessment report.
that report concludes that the scientific evidence is unequivocal: climate change is a threat to human well-being and planetary health.
any further delay in global action on adaptation and mitigation will miss a rapidly closing window of opportunity to secure a liveable and sustainable future for us all.
we are in a triple planetary crisis of climate change, biodiversity loss and waste and pollution, and that requires rapid, bold and far—reaching action.
this is echoed in last week’s ipcc report, which states that benefits for health and well—being can be gained by transitioning to a low carbon, well—being-oriented and equity—oriented economy consistent with the aims of the sustainable development goals.
with this eighth eap, the eu recognises that the systemic change necessary to meet our environmental goals requires a new kind of economy that looks beyond gdp, and now is the time to deliver.
after difficult negotiations, the european parliament won a key point – the eu now must set a concrete deadline to phase out fossil fuel subsidies that is consistent with the ambition of limiting global warming to 1.5 °c.
to secure a liveable planet for today’s young people and future generations, public money must be redirected away from activities that further heat the planet and towards those truly sustainable ways.
as the rapporteur, i have high expectations for the commission to swiftly pinpoint and end these harmful subsidies once and for all, so that we can invest instead in biodiversity protection and restoration.
it is also now incumbent on the commission to treat the protection of eu soil just like air and water, with legislation on soil health required by 2023. this agreement makes it clear – at the behest of the parliament – that measures taken to protect the environment and climate must be carried out in a socially fair and inclusive way in line with a just transition, in line with a just transition.
we must remember that the longer we delay environmental action, the more disruptive and damaging the transition will be.
fair environmental action is fast environmental action.
we must ensure that our progress towards our environmental objectives are kept high on the political agenda and that decision makers are held to account.
i would, at this time, like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for all of your excellent cooperation in the negotiations on this file over the past year, as well as the slovenian presidency and, of course, the commission, who have worked very well to agree on this meaningful framework for environmental action.
violence that also hits human rights defenders and environmental defenders especially worryingly, with 42 murders in 2021. besides murders, one of the most dangerous threats facing journalists and human rights defenders is disappearances: nearly 100,000 people have disappeared since 1964, according to mexico's national search commission.
moreover, the murders of journalists and human rights defenders occur in a climate of impunity, as those responsible are rarely arrested and brought to justice.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
inflation is breaking record after record, but the ecb seems obsessed with a politically coloured agenda of climate change risks.
mr president, the energy charter treaty is a relic of a fossil-fuel past and beyond reform.
also, the proposals to include hydrogen and biomass in the list of energy technologies that are protected under the treaty will only increase the risk of investor-state dispute—settlement challenges.
the energy charter treaty cannot be modernised or fixed, and the eu should withdraw from the treaty.
what could have been an attempt for us to reorganise our agriculture in order to deliver food security has been turned into a retrograde step, literally decimating many of the commitments made in our environmental programmes before us.
no recognition of the fact that a stable climate and healthy environment and abundant diversity are necessary for fuel food security.
we should be dealing with global cooperation, sustainable best practice and support for the global south, rather than continuing the deplorable conditions that have operated.
we no longer have dairy farms; we have dairy factories.’ now more than ever is the time to accelerate the transition to environmentally and socially sustainable farming practices.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, too little is said about climate change, and yet it is a reality, even in our own latitudes.
and so i say, especially to those who these days want to put the green deal in the drawer because other problems are there, that it is precisely the ecological transition that is the key to responding not only to energy independence from russia, which is absolutely necessary today, but also to climate change and extreme weather events, which are already having an impact on our food security and water scarcity but also, in general, on our economy, because floods and droughts have a cost and, unfortunately, many times, even in terms of human lives.
the intergovernmental panel report makes it very clear to us that the pace of our actions to achieve the goals is inconsistent with our climate pledges.
the war in ukraine has dramatically exposed our energy dependence.
a dependence on the energy of dictators, of murderers, as we are seeing, of a gas that finances the war in ukraine.
madam president, mr timmermans, the science of the united nations is reminding us of how climate change is worsening and accelerating.
a rapid and profound change, because this is the last generation that is likely to be able to stop this climate crisis.
madam chair, we can half emissions by 2030. that is the conclusion of today's intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) report.
and yes, again, it feels like déja vu; another terrifying scientific report on the climate crisis.
europe must be resolute in its response to this existential climate crisis, just as it has responded to ukraine, just as it responded to covid-19.
we need to accelerate the shift to clean energy across the entire economy.
and one immediate way to do this would be to reject the taxonomy delegated act, which labels gas and nuclear as sustainable.
we can't label fossil gas as sustainable.
that would add fuel to the fire and diverse hundreds of billions to making the climate crisis worse.
it goes completely against what the ipcc and the international energy agency is calling for.
madam president, the war in ukraine is pushing us to replace fossil fuels with renewable energy even faster.
meanwhile, the latest report from the intergovernmental panel on climate change eloquently explains that climate change mitigation requires changes in our consumption patterns that allow our societies to reduce their energy demand.
however, we know that paradoxically, these changes can end up costing families more, and the most vulnerable households should not face them without public support: hence the crucial importance of the social climate fund - a fund that requires sufficient funding - to ensure a socially just energy transition, but also to promote income redistribution.
only then can we prevent climate change denial populism from conquering the most vulnerable groups and classes in our society.
madam president, ‘global warming reaching 1.5 ° centigrade in the near term would cause unavoidable increases in multiple climate hazards and present multiple risks to ecosystems and humans’.
the pandemic, the war in ukraine, high energy prices, the climate crisis are all exacerbating this wealth inequality.
the market stability reserve has been effective in supporting the ets carbon price signal in recent years, but it was designed to only handle oversupply accumulated in the past.
but i want to say very briefly –mick wallace described what the function is of the market stability reserve and i couldn’t even put it in better words than he did – but many of the honourable members use this opportunity to speak in wider terms about the emissions trading system (ets), and the function of the ets, so let me just very briefly react on that point.
and i’ve seen this with ets at work last week in sweden, they’re now producing green steel in sweden, steel that is made without emissions; not yet on an industrial scale, but it is possible because of the functioning of the ets market with a reasonable price.
so the faster we transition into renewables, the faster we will be stronger, we will have higher energy sovereignty in europe, we will put the competitiveness of the european industry on a much, much higher scale.
our eu ets must remain fit for purpose, and it must ensure and incentivise that all member states keep on working in order to reduce their current emissions and push forward towards a more environmental and green future.
and i am really sorry to hear those who are at the far right and the conservatives of this chamber who still do not believe in science, who still think that climate change is something that does not affect our planet, and who still believe that they can simply ignore it.
this is to enable companies to be run more efficiently and to ensure that the vehicles rented are newer, safer, less polluting and therefore more sustainable.
and sustainability is also advocated by us when we encourage the reduction of the number of empty return journeys, in order to achieve the ambitious climate goals and targets that we set ourselves to achieve.
firstly, to ensure greater flexibility for transport companies and self-employed operators, by giving them more options to meet their real and current needs, by encouraging entrepreneurship, by allowing them to allocate resources in the best possible way, and by making this commitment to environmental gains on the one hand and to greater promotion of road safety on the other.
it can also mean less emissions if these vehicles are cleaner.
however, there is some uncertainty regarding the impact on member state tax revenues or the overall environmental cost at the european union level.
the common fisheries policy needs to be radically changed to reflect the realities of climate change and the political realities of brexit.
the commission will continue to engage for fisheries that are economically, socially and environmentally sustainable, both for fish stocks managed by the eu alone and for those shared with our international partners.
at the same time, the child should be questioned in a friendly environment.
madam president, the revision of the trans-european network energy regulation could have a huge impact on the eu’s chances of achieving its climate goals.
we are in breach of the paris agreement at the moment because we’re supposed to make finances work for the climate.
thank you very much for this first question, which opens this new format of parliamentary questions; i am glad that it is in respect of the strategic compass: i think it is a good start, and it would certainly be a serious mistake for all member states to increase their defence spending in a way that is homothetic to the current situation, it would be a great waste if we were to take the current distribution of investments by states to a higher level without changing its structure.
we need to push for a sustainable way to make europe self-sufficient with food, energy and defence.
when will the next one take place, as our immediate security environment is unfortunately deteriorating rapidly?
what has happened in ukraine is a tectonic shift in our security environment and that has forced us, first, to adapt the text of the compass before it was adopted.
i understand that you said that nations should not invest more because it is waste of time.
that item was greatly reduced by the member states when the financial perspectives were discussed, and with the amount of demand there is today for european funds to deal with the increase in the price of energy, food, the problems we are facing with the pandemic, i very much doubt that with the current appropriations voted by parliament we can increase the military mobility you have mentioned; of course the member states could make extraordinary contributions, but i do not see that very feasible either.
i would point out that this is perhaps not the most important aspect of the compass, but it has a great deal of appeal in the ability to deploy 5,000 troops on the ground ready to take part in combat missions, that is, in a hostile environment, equipped with the necessary weapons to cope with different types of missions.
as we work on energy independence, we should at the same time work on our industry redeployment and industrial independence.
on the other key priority, which was about our shared environmental commitments, i was skeptical earlier.
many of the projects of common interest included are aimed at enhancing energy security across the eu.
one of the very important ones on that particular list is the celtic interconnector, which is an essential piece of energy infrastructure needed to protect irish interests post—brexit.
ireland, with his ambitious plans to roll out large amounts of wind energy generation off the west coast of ireland in the years ahead, will at times have surplus energy to export into the european grid.
so i very much welcome the report and i do look forward to the implementation and the investment in energy infrastructure across the eu so that we can have real renewable energy transferred across the entire continent where it is needed from where it is generated.
but what they have done is unleash economic devastation this time round, which will be paid for by the people of russia, including those out protesting against the war, and increasingly being paid for by the citizens of europe, facing massive energy price hikes, inflation and a catastrophic decline in their living standards.
and of course, that’s putting strain, particularly on a lot of people who are close to energy poverty and other types of poverty.
so we have a problem with regard to waste, and what we need to do now is to shift the focus from disposal to the right to repair and the obligations that will have to be placed on people, companies and entities to ensure that there is proper affordability in terms of accessing repair of electrical goods.
while that’s very welcome for the customer, there is a hidden cost to the environment.
it’s about us protecting the environment for future generations as well.
it's not bad to ask the european commission, to ask a question, and to ask electric car manufacturers, like tesla, what is the carbon footprint of their car from start to finish, or those who make solar cells, or those who make levers, because it's good to know if it's as environmentally friendly as it's claimed.
the circular economy should not be used to rebrand acts of consumption as climate action.
they are funnelling weapons into a hot war like there’s no tomorrow, implementing sanctions that are cleaving the world into new shapes that will set back the possibility to achieve meaningful climate action by for decades, while basic supply chain disruptions are going to cause prolonged suffering and destabilisation all over eurasia and probably in europe.
(the speaker agrees to reply to a question on the blue card)
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
madam president, today we are facing another important challenge, and this is how to practically align the persistent organic pollutants regulation with the stockholm convention and with the overall aim to protect human health and the environment.
what we need to keep in mind is that in each and every step we have to set the basis for sustainable chemicals by design, maintaining the precautionary approach and also setting the standards for pops in waste.
we have to guarantee that the transition to a high—quality, toxic—free materials cycle cannot coexist with an approach that allows the recycling of pops—containing waste based on weak pops limit values.
they will be able, according to the market knowledge, a condition to adapt for a toxic-free environment and a truly circular economy.
madam president, people living in ireland produce more than 40 million tonnes of waste every year.
most of our hazardous products are exported to other european countries, and much of this waste contains toxic organic compounds that we call pops.
during the process, as colleagues have said, whether ingested or inhaled, these pose a severe risk to human health and to the environment.
and shockingly, now, we find that pops can be found worldwide, in all major climate zones and geographic areas, including deserts, where there are no significant sources of pops.
this is the reality of an insane economic system which generates pollution without a sense of responsibility for future generations.
while we talk about exporting our waste and improving our recycling processes, this won't protect the entire biosphere from toxic properties.
i’m fairly happy with the text of the regulation before us, as amended by the environment committee.
this should lead to an enhanced protection of the environment and human health.
the elimination of toxic legacy substances from waste is vital to ensure a safe and clean circular economy and this amending regulation can certainly help to achieve that.
the european union is also fully engaged in the preparation of the un transforming education summit to be held in september 2022 – because we will only achieve our goals if we place education at the forefront of the international debate on sustainable development.
investing in education is a prerequisite for building a sustainable future.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the protection of the environment and the promotion of sustainable development.
however, with age and at higher levels of education, girls tend to steer away from the stem and ict subjects and are more likely to choose careers in the social and environmental sciences, as they perceive the former to be less people-oriented and to add less value to society.
the e-learning platform will give entrepreneurs and would-be entrepreneurs the opportunity to learn and acquire entrepreneurial digital and sustainable competencies.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as rapporteur for this own-initiative report, i would first of all like to welcome the commission's proposal on the new strategy for a sustainable blue economy in the european union.
fisheries and aquaculture are key to providing europe with healthy food with high nutritional value and a low carbon footprint.
but there is still a long way to go towards its greater economic and environmental sustainability.
in this context, our fishermen must be able to be at the forefront of the most committed to reversing the loss of marine biodiversity, due to the major socioeconomic impact that such losses can have on the european union's fishing industry.
and let us not forget that effective marine protected areas can be extremely beneficial for fisheries and for the sustainability of fisheries resources.
that is why properly science-based investments must be made to create marine protected areas that are not only protected on paper, but that can ensure the long-term sustainability of resources and, with it, the economic sustainability of all fishermen, not just some.
a sustainable blue economy should also include the balanced development of emerging activities such as blue biotechnology, ocean energy production or tourism, but always alongside more traditional activities such as shipping, fisheries and aquaculture, which should be equally supported in the demand for their sustainability.
as regards international ocean governance, it should address environmental issues on a cross-sectoral basis, ensuring a level playing field and equal treatment of all maritime economic activities.
they are key throughout the sustainable fisheries value chain, particularly in coastal communities, and they should also have access to decent working conditions and incomes, as well as greater visibility and representation in decision-making structures and processes.
i would like to conclude by recalling that, in order to increase the competitiveness and economic performance of the fisheries and aquaculture sectors, special attention must also be paid to vocational training, lifelong learning and the dissemination of scientific, technical and innovative knowledge and practices, and this implies, among other measures, stronger and wider cooperation between schools, universities, public authorities and industry, in order to promote actions based on the best available scientific knowledge, capable of ensuring economic competitiveness, ensuring environmental sustainability and the social inclusion of these sectors which are so important for our food security and for the future of our food autonomy.
she talks about the impact of the loss of marine biodiversity, protected marine areas and the need for balanced development, the role of international governance and she talks about coastal communities.
mr president, after a strong campaign under the city’s first female chief executive, ann doherty, i’m delighted that cork is set to become one of the eu’s climate neutral cities by 2030 under the eu’s mission programme.
this will mean transforming transport systems, making cork a global centre for offshore renewable energy, fostering urban diversity as well as a strong retrofit campaign for warm, sustainable housing.
well, this is a chance to rebel for a sustainable future, and against an economy dependent on fossil fuels and against cold houses and fuel poverty, but to rebel against climate change – the greatest threat facing humanity.
we know that global warming and climate systems breakdown are resulting in mass displacement, food shortages, starvation and instability.
in response, our leaders have ignored mitigating global warming and instead spend resources primarily on militarism, stoking conflicts, further threatening life on earth.
there are also a variety of ways in which geodata can be used for climate protection.
i believe that we europeans can really put another stamp on this and create regulation in this digital environment that ultimately serves our citizens across europe.
finally, the development of artificial intelligence in europe will have a major impact on the competitiveness of our economy and on the progress of society in all areas: education, health, transport, energy, etc.
on an unparalleled scale, europe can establish its own leadership in the area of ai by creating a regulatory environment that gives both private and business users the most appropriate and complete rights and the widest possible protection.
madam president, after a year and a half of work, the special committee on artificial intelligence has produced this document which is being examined today by the european parliament and which affects all the subjects and legal bases on which the european parliament legislates, with regard to industry, energy, trade and, of course, employment.
i think we could have put a lot more stronger message if we dealt more with the environmental impact of the uncontrolled and unlimited development of ai, which it has on raw materials, and which does impact on our fight for survival.
the impact on fuel, oil, energy and agriculture prices, the tightening supplies of food mean that many countries will be unable to pay their foreign debts.
what we see is a total crackdown of political opposition, imprisoning of political opposition leaders, many murders of trade unionists, criminalisation of environmental activists who defend land and national resources in the country.
yesterday, in this very house, prime minister draghi told us that the war in ukraine and the energy crisis are moving the european union's strategic axis southwards, towards africa.
together with our partners such as the g5, the african union and ecowas, the european union has the power to make a difference in the region, to protect and defend democracy and stability, and to take significant steps towards sustainable peace, because that’s our security as well.
for example, the sahel regions are affected by climate change and severe droughts which increase pressure on resources - less land for farmers, less pastures for herders, less water for everyone - all of which leads to inter-communal conflicts.
the climate emergency, of course, calls on businesses to adapt and to change.
it recognises that flexibility is required to keep our business environment competitive and dynamic and to protect jobs.
a uachtaráin, as a rapporteur for the energy performance of buildings, i am concerned that we may not reach our targets due to funding issues.
the energy performance of buildings directive, under article 15, increases the toolbox for member states in relation to financial incentives and market barriers, including energy-efficiency loans and mortgages for building renovations.
i am calling on the ecb to provide additional incentives for banks to set energy efficiency as a criterion for low interest rates and green mortgages for households so that we can bridge the gap, reduce emissions, make houses more comfortable and healthy, and decrease electricity bills.
finally, the covid—19 pandemic, the climate crisis and the rise of authoritarianism make the role of education and exercising our engagement more important than ever.
the energy transition is a priority which must also be supported through nuclear energy, as the commission has rightly said.
we also believe that a new common issue of debt securities is needed to finance a common energy policy.
the common purchasing platform is a good thing, provided that it does not remain a vague thing and that, as with vaccines, we come to have a true single european price for energy.
the one unfinished task is a lack of diversification of energy supply.
the russian empire was still there, although another name, and it’s still there trying to enlarge their spheres of influence by energy resources and by the army.
i welcome the raising of the binding renewable target to 45% and the mandatory national energy savings target from 9% to 13%.
and these moves will inject some ambition into the renewable energy directive, contribute to greater energy security, as well as lowering our carbon emissions and our energy bills.
and this will be a crucial tool to reduce our dependence on russian energy imports.
a uachtaráin, i would like to welcome the repowereu plan, especially plans to tackle massive problems in licensing and permits as well as increased renewable energy targets.
however, to reduce our dependency on russian energy and fossil fuels, we must address the building sector much more readily and give it the priority it deserves.
reducing residential energy consumption will greatly reduce the need to increase the eu’s energy generation capacity, especially for peak hours.
not only are we in a pivotal decade for the climate, but we are also in an energy crisis.
we need a coherent and realistic energy policy that takes into account the new geopolitical situation.
we have committed to 2050 as a goal to reach climate neutrality.
however, it is not helpful having members speak in this chamber as if we can simply switch to 100% renewable energy at the flick of a switch.
(the president declared the minutes closed) i 'm not ... less energy from russia, more production in the european union.
if so, then we need a clear cascade principle, food for the table and for the trough and waste and manure for the biogas plant.
if we put this money into repowereu, it is clear that it is not our farms that will benefit, but the big energy companies.
i do support the efforts of the commission to find different ways to supply those crucial energy resources to our continent.
and as a conclusion i would like to say yes, we have to find a way to import energy resources to our continent, but we should develop our own and use the existing one as well.
mr president, commissioner, energy independence is a key objective of the european union.
it is unacceptable that we are buying energy from russia for a billion euros a day.
we have been talking for a long time about interconnections and, for example, energy interconnections between portugal, spain and france.
our citizens must continue to be able to pay their energy bills.
but the key is the energy policy of governments.
there is no bilateral trade, just energy dependence on russia, which the greek government is not doing its job to deal with.
and can we live without energy?
mr president, the european union was formed with the concern of avoiding new clashes over raw materials and energy.
however, our obsession with renewable energy has led us to the inconsistency of creating a dependence on third countries with totalitarian regimes, such as russia, which have robbed us of peace.
we have been crying out for an energy mix that would allow us to be self-sufficient.
do you not see that environmental policies are fuelling instability, insecurity and poverty in the union and in our countries?
some 70% of global energy lng supply is already under long-term contract.
new lng infrastructure will be built too late to address the current energy crisis.
lng does not serve the energy poor and it will not fix europe’s fossil fuel dependency.
the measures that we’ve put in place today – while there’s some nice sounding words about environmental conditionality, rule of law conditionality, helping the ordinary people – are pretty weak in terms of those calls, and to me it smacks of a corporate handout.
– mr president, the climate change and defence roadmap calls for increased spending in research, technologies and capabilities that would supposedly allow the armed forces to reduce their carbon footprint.
yet the text allows for the voluntary setting of carbon emissions reductions targets – a weaker position than that contained in the original roadmap.
in effect, the report is advocating for a massive transfer of public wealth to private arms manufacturing companies to supply innovations and equipment that would not guarantee overall reductions in carbon emissions from the activities of the armed forces.
mr. president, today climate change is not only a gigantic environmental problem, it is also one of the greatest threats to our global security because it acts as a threat multiplier and because it has enormous security implications because there are four factors behind it that are aggravating it: one, it is deepening poverty; two, it is going to multiply forced displacement; three, it is going to increase competition for resources; and four, it is going to increase conflict on the planet.
that is why we are voting in favour of this report here today, which we are debating in response to the defence and climate change strategy presented by the european external action service.
three important messages: to incorporate the climate dimension into our security and defence policy, to achieve the decarbonisation of our instruments in terms of foreign and security policy and, at the same time, to adapt our missions to environments affected by climate change.
we welcome the fact that the european parliament is today incorporating the climate dimension into its foreign and security policy and we also congratulate the strategic compass for doing the same in this dimension.
mr president, it’s interesting that we’re having this discussion at the same plenary when we’re voting on the fit for 55 package, because the truth is that military activity does emit significant amounts of greenhouse gases and pollutants in its production and in its operation.
yes, we continue to spend billions in a secret manner surrounding its share of emissions.
we continue to pour billions into military mobility, adapting infrastructure for military use without any heed been paid to the environmental footprint of the same.
i agree, but for the complete opposite reason that they put forward, because actually climate change is the biggest challenge facing our planet and militarism in any form undermines that.
climate change has to be central in our security agenda.
but preventing climate crisis must be inclusive and multilateral because it is the challenge of everyone.
i am just wondering, commissioner: what impact assessments have been carried out in the farm to fork strategy to ensure that we will have a sustainable food industry in the years ahead, if we are to reduce and bring forward this regulation with regard to the sustainable use of pesticides regulation, which i very much support?
well, first of all, let me just say that the proposal for the sustainable use of pesticides will be looking at placing targets – i believe strongly that targets are important.
– the revision of the sustainable use directive from the very beginning was very clear that it would have targets, but that we would be taking into account the different starting points of member states.
this revision is necessary so that we protect the biodiversity, protect the environment and protect human health.
because our whole aim is to protect human health and protect the environment.
this is about the use of these chemicals by the public sector in public spaces, but these chemicals are also used by private households, which are equally destructive of biodiversity.
for example, in the upcoming sustainable use of pesticides directive, we want to reflect on the ways and the clear wish that we see coming from society not to use pesticides in areas such as playgrounds and parks.
in terms of the directive that we’re putting through, it will share the same objectives as the current legislation, which is to protect biodiversity.
– yes, we want to promote more sustainable farming with the smarter use of inputs.
and, of course, in order to be able to move towards more sustainable food systems, we need to, as you say, unlock the potential of new technologies and alternative approaches to farming.
and when we achieve this, it can only be, as i said before, a win-win situation for farmers and the environment.
now, you mentioned the new genomic techniques, if i understood correctly from the interpretation, we are committed to act in this field given the potential of new genomic techniques to contribute to sustainability objectives.
what we want to do is move towards a direction, a direction that will serve health, environment, sustainability and food safety.
what is sustainable use of pesticides?
sustainable use of pesticides is a concept that doesn't work for me.
but what does sustainable mean?
the loss of biodiversity is really dramatic.
in terms of the revision of the sustainable use of pesticides, i have said that we aim to come forward with that before the summer.
this will not guarantee that our sustainability standards are met, and it will not provide our farmers with a viable alternative to using chemicals.
as many other colleagues have said, commissioner, do you not think that the time has come to break the deadlock and put the new sustainable biotechnology legislation on the table?
the war in ukraine, combined with a price surge, has brought forward the links of geopolitics, globalisation and climate change and food security.
however, the war in ukraine does not remove the fact that climate change, biodiversity loss and scarcity are some of the biggest threats facing humanity in the next decades.
i thank you for your answer, commissioner, but my question is this: does he not think it is a contradiction if the commission, on the one hand, wants to increase european agricultural production - and we have temporarily suspended the ecological focus area, that is the compulsory set-aside of 5% of arable land - but then, on the other hand, comes up with a proposal that will reduce european production?
i would like to ask you very briefly why the commission has temporarily suspended the ecological focus area, that is to say the de facto obligation to set aside 5% of arable land to increase european production, and why it is trying to reduce european production with this measure announced on plant protection products.
we’re looking to reduce them, as i have said, through the sustainable use of pesticides regulation, and we will be working towards this in order to be able to achieve what we have already said.
and the current crisis has reinforced our conviction that the resilience of our food systems needs a fundamental change and reorientation of eu agriculture food systems towards sustainability.
we are committed to making this transition to sustainable food systems successful.
madam president, commissioner, i believe and advocate that the objectives outlined in the meadow-to-meadow and biodiversity strategies are fundamental to setting the path, the course towards more sustainable agri-food systems.
and so i ask, in the context of this new legislative proposal, how is the need to speed up the authorisation process for substances which are low-risk in agriculture and with full respect for the safety of public health and the environment being balanced, or whether it will be balanced.
however, these findings contradict those of other institutions, including the international agency for research on cancer, which classified glyphosate as probably carcinogenic to humans as far back as 2015. in an opinion published on 10 january, the french national commission on ethics and alerts in public health and the environment recommended a review of the process used to arrive at the expert opinion on the re—authorisation of glyphosate.
the president of that commission has told le monde that the renewable assessment report made a drastic selection, excludes most of the studies on glyphosate published in international scientific literature and mainly retains those provided by the industry.
but i also wanted to stress, as a member of the envi committee, the importance of the sustainability of the overall fisheries, because if, after the raids of some vessels, there are completely dead zones in our seas, then there will be no allocation of quotas at all.
non-discrimination between sectors and the use of historicist criteria for allocation is the most social, economic and environmental mechanism known because all fishermen are bound by the same rules and conditions.
madam president, the greens in the european parliament have long been fighting hard to get this report on fairness and sustainability in fisheries on the agenda.
we cannot have sustainability while the eu prioritises industrial fishing methods despite their environmental and social impacts.
in the face of biodiversity collapse, overfishing and rapidly warming oceans, the eu must prioritise environmental and social benefits over industrial profits and fisheries.
it needs cooperation from bilateral agreements, it needs quota redistribution, sustainability and a favouring of small fishermen.
it requires that member states allocate fishing opportunities using transparent and objective criteria, including those of an environmental, social and economic nature.
the criteria, including those of an environmental, social and economic nature, must be transparent and objective.
they may include, among others, the impact of fishing on the environment, the history of compliance, the contribution to the local economy and historic catch levels.
according to the same article 17, within the fishing opportunities allocated to them, member states must endeavour to provide incentives to fishing vessels deploying selective fishing gear or using fishing techniques with reduced environmental impact.
overall, i can say that the commission welcomes ms roose’s report on the implementation of article 17 of the common fisheries policy regulation, as it provides a basis for a constructive dialogue with member states on the use of transparent and objective criteria, including environmental, social and economic criteria for allocating the fishing opportunities.
the commission will continue to facilitate the exchange of good practices amongst member states regarding the successful use of social and environmental criteria in particular.
it has put a few long-distance pipeline vessels, which operate with sustainable means and under strict control, on the verge of bankruptcy.
they would have obtained them, as always, by fishing in conditions of maximum environmental and social sustainability.
i therefore call on the commissioner to activate the aid provided for in the european maritime and fisheries fund so that these sustainability entrepreneurs can get back to work.
climate system breakdown or having trade relations with the eu?
reseeding is a very important component to increase grass production, but it is also very important to ensure that we comply with the farm to fork strategy and the biodiversity strategy in terms of increasing the uptake of clover planting and also multi-species swards.
so the point i’m trying to make, commissioner – and we made it earlier as well – is that we don’t seem to have joined—up thinking in terms of the farm to fork strategy or the biodiversity strategy, both at national and at european level.
mr president, firstly, well done to mohammed, the rapporteur for the carbon border adjustment mechanism.
least—developed countries are the least responsible for the climate crisis, yet the worst impacted by it.
exemptions on their own would risk leaving them stranded with carbon—intensive production methods.
of course, this is tangible and can be marketed as a headline, but the reality is different: emissions are only shifted from transport to energy production - whatever.
we have therefore tabled amendments which bring together climate protection and technological openness.
this means, and i ask you to listen carefully, almost complete electrification of new cars from 2035, but also a doorway to other carbon-neutral technologies.
i think we can then combine climate action and political realism, as the vice-president has just said.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, madam minister dear chrysoula we are all bound in this house by the european climate law.
it says we have to be carbon neutral by 2050. to be carbon neutral in 2050, we have to stop selling cars that weren't carbon neutral 15 years ago.
so if we don't stop selling cars that are not zero co2 emissions by 2035, it means that we can't meet the paris agreement, that we can't meet european climate law.
this means that climate neutrality, the paris agreement and compliance with european climate law will have been abandoned.
so we have to vote for 100% zero emissions by 2035. but of course we must also take account of the social issues.
that's zero-carbon innovation, and i'm surprised that the right wing is still in a completely backward-looking logic.
that is why this parliament will vote for the just transition fund for employees in the automobile industry, just as we voted for the just transition fund for employees affected, particularly in western europe, by the energy transition.
this is balance, climate ambition, industrial ambition, social justice.
and of course, greener cars are no silver bullet for the climate challenges.
in relation to the carbon uptake by our soils, i think it places agriculture and forestry as a key agent for reduction.
i hope that this parliament will not reduce the commission's ambition, but also that we will approve the new flexibility mechanism, so that we take account of the disruptions caused by climate change in many southern countries, but not only, and of course of natural disasters and catastrophes.
the european union's climate policies will undergo major changes in the period ahead.
we know that agriculture and forestry play an important role in managing carbon and absorbing it.
other policies are required in a normative, not market-based approach to emissions reduction, the effective promotion of public transport networks at affordable or free prices that promote collective transport, the substitution of imports by domestic production, promoting short supply chains, fostering complementarity rather than destructive competition between countries.
the public control of the energy sector, ensuring transitions that respond to the interests of the people of each country, and rejecting the scandalous speculative spiral and the assault on the populations we see.
mr president, in light of europe’s historic responsibility and its capacity to act, the eu must reduce its domestic greenhouse gas emissions by at least 65% by 2030 as compared to 1990 levels.
to meet this, the effort sharing regulation needs to achieve at least 50% emissions reduction by 2030 compared to 2005 levels.
the un has warned of total societal collapse due to climate breakdown.
it is the least we can do, considering that the eu continues to transfer eur 40 billion monthly to putin’s war machine in exchange for energy resources.
special and urgent arrangements are needed to allow coordinated and sustainable aid for ukraine, corresponding to the actual needs.
it is also vital to continue to work with our neighbours on addressing the country’s energy insecurity and to stop russia from using frozen conflicts and occupied territories to further destabilise these countries.
and from an irish perspective, we have to take into account the environmental, the social and economic criteria to ensure that ireland gets its fair share of allocation in the review of the common fisheries policy, bearing in mind we have been singularly most impacted because of brexit, where we have had large cuts to quota.
we must respond comprehensively to the current challenges of the cost of living crisis, the energy crisis, and work together as we have done during covid.
and then, i agree with mr gheorghe, we need an environmental prosecutor in the european union against transnational environmental crimes, including illegal logging.
a european environmental prosecutor would facilitate cross-border investigations and harmonise judicial procedures across the union.
my own country, poland, has a very sensible, sustainable forest policy.
while the environmental commission is compiling an enormous amount of evidence towards an infringement procedure, there is ongoing illegal logging in romania happening, concretely in the făgăraş mountains, in the iaşi area.
an environmental impact assessment only being done after the forest has been logged, i think is not serving the purpose.
now a good news story is that there is a company in ireland set up by enda keane, treemetrics, which recently launched a climate—smart forest management platform with the support of the esa, and i think that’s something that could be very helpful and i would ask the commission to look into it.
mr president, the european court of auditors released a report recently linking logging rates to an increase in the consumption of solid biomass for energy purposes.
now, to meet renewable energy targets, burning biomass is the cheapest alternative, so many countries are effectively forced to do so to meet their targets.
sixty per cent of the eu’s renewable energy is coming from biomass, which continues to rise.
this leads to the burning of even more wood and the creation of more emissions in a vicious circle.
how is this a sound environmental practice?
forest biomass should not be considered a renewable energy source: it actively harms forests by creating a cash—crop forestry plantation industry, which of course makes space for the illegal logging industry in europe.
we seriously need to reconsider the inclusion of forest biomass under the eu renewable energy directive.
i mean, four days ago on every social media platform, the eu was celebrating world environmental day, and one of our key targets was to fight deforestation, recognising that forests play a vital role in mitigating the catastrophic impact of climate change.
there is a distinction between people, out of energy poverty, eking out some fuel to heat their homes and the industrial scale illegal logging which is going on very often cross-border and done through organised crime.
you know, the european union forest strategy refers to the need to better respond to new challenges and needs, in particular concerning climate and biodiversity objectives and the issue of forest health, which is of concern for all member states.
we intend to work jointly with member states and stakeholders and assess how these could best be used to demonstrate, communicate and further develop the forest sector’s sustainability.
we are paying great attention to the illegal logging situation in romania, as this puts into jeopardy human lives and the rich biodiversity of romanian forests.
we have since opened an infringement procedure for breaches of eu environmental law.
we are strongly committed to the protection of our forests and environmental defenders in the european union, and we look forward to the plenary vote expected at the next plenary session this month.
the balance of institutions is important and it must be preserved in order to protect european countries from the follies of the green deal, green hysteria, green climate hysteria.
when the us and its allies pull off their coups through organised violence, lawfare, election—rigging and the influence operations orchestrated through the likes of the national endowment for democracy and usaid, then all is well – the complete undermining of the democratic process that ushers in western—business—friendly comprador ready to gut social services, rip up environmental protections, sell off state assets, rip up environmental protections, and drive the general population into poverty.
mr president, commissioner, there is no further progress; since 2020, the world has made almost no progress towards achieving the sustainable development goals that the international community has set for 2030. no, the climate and environmental challenge is not solved, and we are far from it.
the sdg index, which measures countries' progress towards achieving the 17 sustainable development goals, fell for the second year in a row.
the truth is that we are in fact in the midst of a mega-crisis of the capitalist system: a health, economic, social, environmental, geopolitical and, tomorrow, financial crisis.
so today, meps of all political colours will talk about the importance of the sustainable development goals, and rightly so.
on environment, that means increased ambition on climate, increased ambition on biodiversity and increased ambition on reducing pollution.
it means voting against greenwashing and in favour of genuine sustainability.
in addition, as an mep representing a constituency on the border with northern ireland, continued inclusion of northern irish students in the erasmus programme is key, given the current political climate we all live in.
this is why our administration has made primary, ladies and gentlemen, and secondary education completely free, even in a challenged environment with a restricted treasury, our first budget delivered free education, universal education for all our children, especially children from disadvantaged families, underprivileged families.
we look to you, our partners – i shall repeat this – we look to you, our partners, to work with us to establish financial assistance packages that aid research, development, technology and skills that will create new and sustainable zambian small and medium enterprises.
we look to working with you as the eu to help us to improve access to credit for smes through initiatives such as the global investment package, which will lead to increased industrialisation, agricultural production, manufacturing, trade and sustainable energy sources for our smes.
this is the surest and most sustainable way of creating meaningful employment, and of course diversifying our economy.
(applause) ladies and gentlemen, food insecurity and climate change, just to address that a little bit.
basically a good climate for growing food.
this is why our government is taking concrete steps to harness zambia’s potential to develop renewable energy, ladies and gentlemen, as well as sustainable agriculture to mitigate the devastating impacts of climate change.
we have created the first ever minister of green economy and environment in our country’s history to dedicate efforts to sustainability as we engage in agriculture, in our quest to develop green energy.
we want sustainability to be the order of the day.
this is the most sustainable way to work together, and zambia is up to the task in this area.
the skills from our women, the skills from our youth, who have the energy.
and obviously the climate over millions of years changed that situation for us.
(applause)we prefer and we argue to this parliament and beyond this parliament, we prefer to channel, all of us, our resources, energy, indeed time to resolving conflicts in all regions of the world.
we have to end these double standards, but we also have to look at the policies that are making people refugees in the first place – mainly war and climate change.
madam president, we voted for environmental protection today, we voted against illegal logging, against loggers and organized crime groups that destroy our lives.
there are still parties who believe that in their country there is no illegal logging, no waste, no poaching, but pollution knows no borders, dear colleagues.
those who oppose the punishment of environmental offenders do so at the expense of our health and our children.
these politicians forget that there is no private ozone.
madam president, the report’s proposal for a new governance scheme for the sustainable development goals at eu level is positive and ambitious.
the sdgs assume that efficiency improvements will be enough to reconcile the tension between growth and ecological sustainability.
of course, regional development in the global south must continue, but global economic growth is incompatible with many environmental targets.
even if absolute decoupling of growth from resource consumption is theoretically possible, its success must be measured in terms of climate targets and whether it fits with limiting global warming by 1.5 degrees.
madam president, i think the simple truth is that the neoliberal policies advocated by the european union cannot provide a sustainable solution to women’s poverty in our economy.
and this scourge, already sadly present in the union, in 2020 due to the covid-19 pandemic, and most recently, with the increase in energy prices as a result of the war in ukraine, has further worsened.
in today’s challenging, competitive and often turbulent geopolitical environment, it is essential that we strengthen trade and political links with the region.
this would notably include market access for goods, services and government procurement, digital trade, intellectual property rights, as well as ambitious provisions on trade and sustainable development.
the economic and geopolitical importance of sustainable connectivity and the digital economy is one of the priorities defined in the indo-pacific strategy, and the eu is now actively committed to translating it into concrete action.
the commission welcomes this report and we believe that eu involvement in the indo-pacific region has become more relevant than ever, not only to advance our interests, but also to promote the rules-based international order and promote global standards on sustainable development.
these are mainly the consequences of the pandemic as well as war, price increases, rising energy and food prices.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
i think one of the major aims of our 3 billion trees initiative is not only to plant the 3 billion additional trees in europe, but it’s actually education – education that there must be a right tree at the right place planted, which would be resilient to future shocks, because we have a very diverse ecosystem across europe, north and south, different geographical locations, and we’ve seen the mistakes done in the past where species that were planted unfortunately today have proved one of the major impacts on forest fires as well in some regions.
– mr president, so speaking about the funding, of course we have a life fund which could be helpful, which is our environment fund.
i can only say that, absolutely, our trade agreements overall, our policies when it comes to environmental protection or the fight against climate change, has to be horizontal and of course, has to intake our green deal policies.
otherwise, it’s going to be extremely difficult to implement the green deal if we will see the green deal or the environmental policies such as nature restoration legislation or others as some nature beauty legislation, that’s not the case.
i think, first of all, of course, president von der leyen made a huge step when she announced the doubling of our resources for biodiversity outside the eu.
and then, of course, looking at direct and indirect drivers of ecosystem loss, addressing them within the targets and then not only having those measurable targets, but also very clear milestones, how we reach those targets, having a very clear review mechanism, returning back every two years to the target and see are we able to reach that first, second or third step towards the ‘30 for 30’ target, how the implementation is done and what measures are deployed in one or the other ecosystem.
– so as regards the blue carbon coalition, you know, eu usually supports the ambitious coalitions, coalitions which lead to example.
and when we speak about agricultural policy, transport, energy policies, we clearly see where the trend is going and where the biggest investments are being put.
i think that call was well addressed in repowereu as regards the clear need for deployment of renewable technologies and fast—track procedures.
look, it’s clear that environmentally harmful subsidies given by the eu are causing significant harm to biodiversity.
and related to this, is the commission on track to produce a methodology to identify environmentally harmful subsidies by 2023, as we committed to in the eighth environmental action programme (8th eap).
and then in terms of consumption: food production, consumption and overconsumption are having an impact on biodiversity.
and lastly, in terms of political will: commissioner, you’re going to the cop15 later in the year but i genuinely feel that we need to call for a legally binding agreement at that conference because we’ve seen that we failed in the past in terms of biodiversity and monitoring isn’t enough.
so first of all on the first part on harmful subsidy, so the work is already ongoing and as it’s framed in the etap, we will propose it in 2023. we started, of course, with the stakeholder consultations and so we will move on, work with the member states and then finalise the proposal in 2023. as regards the footprint and reduction of waste, so of course one thing is our waste legislation.
secondly, our ecodesign sustainable product policy, which is really transformative legislation.
and last but not least, of course, our proposal on food waste.
we have them in the climate law and, as i said, if we do not have them binding, they won’t happen.
we have had scientists working on it, and we have developed objective principles for whether or not to use certain types of energy.
there were scientific arguments about nuclear power: we lived through fukushima, we lived through chernobyl, we know that we have no solution for radioactive waste.
how can we transmit energy for which we have no solution for nuclear waste?
and then, it's still a burden to future generations, so it can't be a transitional energy.
europe is in an energy crisis, rising prices, uncertain supply.
we have to say no, because nuclear energy and natural gas are sustainable energy sources and are essential for climate protection.
this proposal would make it impossible to achieve climate objectives by hindering investments.
we must say no, because europe must strive for energy independence, which will simply not be possible without new nuclear power stations and lng terminals.
this proposal would, on the contrary, increase the vulnerability of europe's energy supply.
finally, we must say no, because only by using nuclear energy is it possible to maintain affordable prices.
this proposal would further increase energy prices.
we must protect european citizens from the energy crisis, and that is why we must say no to this proposal!
the second reason for me is the rules you have written for nuclear energy.
i can accept that nuclear energy is a transitional technology and that we may have to use it for a little longer, at this stage.
if we do not succeed in making renewable energy the sole source of energy by 2070, then we are not worth our money, and that is why i will vote against the delegated act.
serious about advocating energy independence in a geopolitical world?
serious about building a sustainable europe for all citizens?
voting for gas turns europe from a climate front runner into a climate laggard, as even russia and china don’t call it green, and for good reason: there’s no place for fossil gas if you want to stop global warming.
yes, it will be a future source of energy, but no, your country will not benefit from labelling it green.
so is it a surprise that it’s just about only france that can fulfil the requirement, the requirement of a permanent storage for nuclear waste by 2050?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the green minister of economics and energy, robert habeck, placed on saturday a press release on the taxonomy, and he was deliberately quiet on gas.
we know that for a transitional time we need gas and nuclear in order not to destabilise the grid, to lead the pathway to renewable energy in 2030 and 2050. and the taxonomy simply reflects the fact that this is used as a transitional pathway, a sustainable energy source.
it is therefore right that the complementary delegated act and the taxonomy presented by the commission defines electricity and heat generation with gas as energy sources as a sustainable transition technology.
mr president, commissioner, i think that, first of all, we should be able to focus the debate properly, and this is not a debate about whether or not we need to invest in gas or nuclear energy.
and certainly, to introduce gas and nuclear energy into that framework, by the way, contrary to the criteria of the technicians of the platform on sustainable finance, is, as i say, to introduce a stone that reduces the credibility of our regulation, that reduces the ability of our regulation to be an international standard.
and, as i say, this does not prejudge whether or not we should invest in gas or nuclear energy, but rather clarify and name things for what they really are.
mr president, madam commissioner today we face the double challenge of the need to cut co2 emissions and a war in europe.
at a time of energy crisis, we have even greater obligation to ensure that all citizens have a secure supply of energy in their homes.
nuclear is vital to our energy independence and economy.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot accept the diversion of green investments to non-sustainable energy sources which also benefit putin's war.
every euro spent on the costly construction or endless maintenance of a nuclear reactor will not be invested in renewable energy.
the energy transition is urgent.
secondly, we all agree that nuclear energy is not green and increases our dependence on uranium imports.
it is well known that the construction of nuclear reactors takes many years, so it will not meet the climate objectives at all.
by the time they are operational, the deadlines for achieving climate targets will be over anyway.
and thirdly, you know very well that nuclear waste, for which there is still no solution, has to be cooled for 80 years.
so it's not sustainable or green either.
how do you cool the waste if not with cold water, which further damages biodiversity?
president of the commission the geopolitical context is one that has presented us with three major challenges: first and foremost, to control electricity and energy prices; ensure a stable energy supply; to ensure a sustainable energy transition.
nuclear energy can play a decisive role in each of these three challenges.
in the energy transition, some have radically abandoned nuclear energy, with the result that we now even have to resort to coal.
are we really going back to that time or are we going to show the courage to invest in all the modern, innovative technologies that nuclear energy is one of?
if we want energy that is affordable, that provides security with as few emissions as possible, then nuclear energy undeniably deserves a place in that.
mr president, calling something sustainable doesn't make it sustainable.
calling fossil gas and nuclear energy green.
we're not voting on whether nuclear and gas should be part of the energy transition.
climate change is.
the commission sets the highest environmental standards for new nuclear and gas investments.
it was parliament - i was one of the authors of that amendment - that voted for a total ban on energy imports from russia.
mr president, commissioner, the taxonomy is the gold standard for sustainable investments.
this is upheld by the existing very strict criteria for energy production.
(the speaker agreed to respond to a blue-card speech)
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2007-2013).
so i want to take this opportunity to thank you, jytte, for your incredibly strong climate commitment, which will be missed in this house when you go back to sweden.
i just want to say thank you for your action and your strong climate drive!
we need to set a very high standard on all climate legislation, and that’s exactly why we need to cooperate on this.
and i really think the vote tomorrow is extremely important to make sure that we do not only have strict legislation that we work together on with the eu ets, but that we also make sure that the financial markets support the sustainable solutions.
i would like to thank the we now have a choice that could be fatal to our climate goals: we have one last chance to stop the commission's hopeless decision to include natural gas a fossil fuel in our taxonomy of green investment.
frankly, this is an opportunity we cannot afford to waste!
now, remember, the taxonomy does not determine what to invest in or what energy countries should use.
it should instead set a gold standard for what is a green investment and show private capital what to invest in if it wants to help us achieve our climate goals.
and if we are to actually achieve our much-needed climate goals.
vote for real climate change by rejecting this proposal.
mr president, commissioner, in order to get rid of fossil fuels, europe must invest in all low-emission sources of energy, including nuclear power.
the commission's view that renewable energy investments, as well as renewals under certain conditions, are sustainable investments should therefore be supported.
that is the right line, but i also understand very well the concerns of those colleagues who are concerned about the final disposal of nuclear waste in countries where it has not been resolved, and it is also worth resolving.
in my own country, finland, the first nuclear waste disposal facility in the world has been set up.
nuclear waste will be buried in the bedrock, and that area will be put into use in a few years.
written statement by the commission the commission welcomes the swift adoption by the european parliament and the council of the amendment to regulation (eu) no 508/2014 on the european maritime and fisheries fund, thus making the specific support measures available to operators to alleviate the consequences of the military aggression of russia against ukraine on fishing activities and to mitigate the effects caused by that military aggression on the market of fishery and aquaculture products, including the additional costs of raw material, input and energy.
one of the reasons and one of the effects that this deficient regulatory framework is causing is that, while the electricity bill is extremely high, the profits of the energy companies are extremely high and extraordinary.
the international energy agency has pointed out that in 2022, 200 billion euros of benefits.
let’s bring in the revenue we need to support working families, and accelerate the shift to renewable energies.
energy prices went through the roof and took all other prices with them.
all we know is that energy prices for citizens in some countries have doubled despite the measures, and the profits of energy companies have quadrupled.
the windfall profits of european energy companies are estimated at €200 billion.
as households and businesses go cold turkey and many will not be able to turn on their heating this coming winter, the energy giants are getting richer: in italy alone, almost 50 billion euros of extra profits.
mr president, the rising energy prices are hitting a lot of people hard.
across europe, energy companies are making 200 billion euros in extra profits.
the day russia invaded ukraine, the energy companies had a winning hand.
the commission wants it, the international energy agency wants it, and five member states with governments of the left and right have already introduced it.
mr president, a windfall tax on energy companies would be welcome, but it’s not a silver bullet; a windfall tax is just a short—term solution.
a big reason for this is the energy price controls france has introduced.
energy poverty is first and foremost a political failure which requires an adequate political response which tackles the root causes of injustice while ensuring a fair and sustainable future for all.
energy is a public good, but we need to start treating it as such – because we haven’t been doing so.
but for me, the most horrific thing is our western leaders’ total immobility in the face of this ever—nearing burning, destructive crisis caused by climate change.
we need sustainability, but we have to tackle also the root cause.
and i think that i also have to say that i am in full agreement with mr ştefănuță, mr biteau, mr ros sempere, mr benefei and many others who been rightly triggering the alarm bells that, unfortunately, with the climate change through which we are going right now and in the next years and decades, that weather events are likely to happen more frequently in the future than in the past.
we are already working on that, and i think that here again will be working with you and with our member states on how to make sure that we would proceed with better climate adaptation, with mitigation investments, especially in the most exposed regions, which we saw represented by the members of the european parliament who intervened this morning.
all of you make a strong reference to the climate change and to the need to be very ambitious in implementation of the european green deal.
and i would like to reassure you that, for us, part of the green deal is not only reducing co2 emissions.
this is also part and parcel of our strategy: how to beef up our biodiversity strategy.
if you simply see: if you will not restore biodiversity, the nature will simply push us hard to remind us that simply there are basic laws of physics, basics of how the how the earth is functioning.
there is very clear foresight that if the climate change would continue at the pace as it is right now, in a few decades, we might we might have 10% less arable land globally, which, of course would have very severe consequences, especially for the for the development of countries.
we have to look at sustainable soil management and the vegetation cover, and we have to invest, as it was said by many: drought-resistant crops and restore damaged areas.
this is not only the issue of climate change, emergency measures or being better prepared for the future challenges.
the next item is the report (a9-0199/2022) by mr søren gade, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a level playing field for sustainable air transport (com (2021) 0561 - c9-0332/2021 - 2021/0205 (cod)).
we urgently need to create a market for sustainable aviation fuels and put aviation on the path to carbon neutrality by 2050. sustainable aviation fuels are an essential component to contribute to decarbonising aviation in the near term, in particular for medium and long-haul flights.
but liquid fuels are expected to remain predominant at least until 2050. when deployed at large scale, they will enable a significant reduction in co2 and other pollutant emissions from the sector, allowing citizens to connect by plane across the eu and beyond more responsibly already in the short term.
in addition, the proposed sustainable aviation fuels allowance scheme could help bridge the remaining price gap between these fuels and fossil fuels, while the creation of a fund dedicated to sustainability might deserve further analysis.
first, it is key to make sure that the regulation supports innovative sustainable aviation fuels, technologies and feedstock with high decarbonisation and scalability potential.
expanding the ‘sustainable aviation fuels’ definition could delay investments in advanced biofuels and e-fuels, which are needed in very large volumes already in the medium term.
setting higher binding targets must be carefully considered in terms of the overall environmental integrity of the proposal, the burden placed on air carriers and the need to maintain a well-functioning aviation market.
the regulation should aim to ensure a level playing field among air operators and airports within the eu and to avoid carbon leakage.
and finally, on the transition period, we must keep in mind the objective that sustainable aviation fuels should be physically available at all airports as soon as possible.
there is no evidence that establishing a book and claim system – in other words, a virtual sustainable aviation fuels market – would bring any benefits, nor that such a system could be put in place without risks of fraud.
by delivering a robust legal framework, we will encourage investments and allow the eu sustainable aviation fuels production capacity to scale up at the necessary pace to meet our climate goals.
we therefore advocate a broader definition of sustainable aviation fuels, in the spirit of greater openness to various technological solutions, particularly when it comes to biofuels.
we must not be drawn into utopias or ideological dogmas which only create problems for industry but which, above all, create problems for people, for citizens who want and need to travel, and do little to contribute to the ultimate goal of zero emissions by 2025. the text we are about to vote on, ladies and gentlemen, is broadly balanced and is ready to help the industry which is so important for europe.
in short, we do not want to create more difficulties for our citizens without even achieving the environmental objectives, and that is what we as legislators have to avoid.
the text is more stringent with the percentages of progressive use of sustainable fuels in aviation, which will apply to all airlines operating more than 500 flights a year; it makes airport managers responsible for providing them with the necessary infrastructure; it addresses the problems of the outermost regions; it updates the list of sustainable fuels, with the exception of those derived from raw materials whose production can compete with food, and it requires the list to be updated every three years to incorporate the innovations produced by innovation (in fact, during these negotiations, sources such as electricity or synthetic fuels produced from green hydrogen, which are an example of technological progress, have already been introduced).
unfortunately, while the commission proposal lacks the ambition needed to decarbonise aviation’s fuel mix as rapidly as the climate emergency demands, this parliament has opted to weaken the proposal and the ambition further, specifically, when it comes to how we define a sustainable fuel.
regrettably, the tran committee agreed on a weakened definition of sustainable aviation fuel, and itre and envi, who share competence, approved the commission’s definition.
this expanded definition allows unsustainable fuels to be burnt in planes: palm oil by-products, food crops and recycled carbon fuels.
they also include intermediate crops, which in europe are often grown for environmental reasons related to soil health, but outside the eu, they’re grown as cash crops.
parliament’s vote today can decide if aviation plays its part in addressing the climate emergency.
today is a crucial day for ensuring that aviation plays its part in addressing the climate emergency, and i hope we can meet this challenge.
we agree that innovative, environmentally friendly and sustainable fuels will help reduce emissions in aviation.
the definition of sustainable aviation fuel developed by the transport committee is also a good compromise.
but having said that, the final text is just not credible for us in terms of the sector dealing adequately with its decarbonisation requirements, primarily because of the decision to broaden the definition of sustainable aviation fuels, which we strenuously oppose on the grounds that this is actually not sustainable.
while we have strengthened the text to improve the information provided by suppliers, at the same time, there’s no sign of a cap as applied in the renewable energy directive, which we thought was very unfortunate.
so, obviously aviation is energy intensive.
it includes by—products of the palm oil industry, intermediate crops, and would produce massive risks for land-use change, disastrous for the environment, communities and biodiversity.
we’re accepting increased demand, which in turn means increased fuel—led demand for feedstocks which are considered sustainable while at the same time their availability is limited.
this is in contradiction with the energy strategy promoted by european authorities, which involves also trying to address lowering consumption.
aviation is going to continue to be dependent on fossil fuels for a long time, the price of which is going to continue to rise and be borne by workers, passengers and the climate.
it managed, by its double veto, to meaningfully water down the commission proposal for a directive on corporate sustainability due diligence, as shown by an insightful report of the corporate europe observatory.
because yes, the bicycle is a means of transport that represents many benefits in terms of health, reducing congestion on our roads and therefore pollution, not to mention environmental benefits when we talk about co2, or economic benefits when we talk about the question of the purchasing power of european citizens.
today, the revision of the regulation on the trans-european transport network (the famous ten-t) and the implementation of sustainable urban mobility plans are strategic tools to help increase the modal share of cycling in the cities of the european union.
cycling is a real asset for - i repeat - not only to reduce co2 and air pollution considerably, but also to limit our dependence on fossil fuels, which is a highly strategic issue.
the commission has therefore started work on the path of this transition for the mobility ecosystem to help the sector to achieve the dual transition - green, but also digital - and to improve its resilience.
the bicycle industry, including electric bicycle manufacturers and subcontractors, will need to be recognised as a key partner in the mobility ecosystem, a real new industrial strategy for the european union, and infrastructure funding programmes and systems of tomorrow.
yes, the bicycle is a real challenge for sustainable mobility, but it is also a real industrial opportunity for europe.
when it's good for the climate, it's good for the job.
how does it intend to complement or extend the urban mobility framework and the mission for climate neutral and smart cities to the european union?
the importance of cycling is highlighted by the role it plays in the eu’s sustainable urban mobility planning concept, as well as awareness-raising campaign of the european mobility week and cities initiative.
it is included also in the revision of the energy performance of buildings directive.
in response to the question on measures to complement and/or extend the eu urban mobility framework and the eu climate neutral and smart cities mission to support cycling and increase its share, i would like to recall the following.
it announces some actions that will further reinforce active mobility, for example, by setting clear priorities to favour these modes in the upgraded sustainable urban mobility planning concept to be published by the end of 2022. the above, coupled with the proposed requirements in the revised trans-european transport network regulation regarding adoption of sustainable urban mobility plans by the major cities should result in accelerated growth of cycling share across the eu.
in the recent eu save energy communication, the commission highlighted the importance of active mobility in reducing europe’s dependence on fossil fuels.
the proposed energy performance of buildings directive already foresees that public buildings should include sufficient parking spaces for bikes and e-bikes and further potential in combination with repowereu solar rooftop initiative and workstreams under the european bauhaus.
so, in the response to the questions on inclusion of the eu bicycle industry in the list of eu industries covered by the eu industrial strategy, in line with the methodology used on their analyses of industrial ecosystems presented in the annual single market report 2021, the manufacture of bicycles has been explicitly included in the mobility transport automotive industrial ecosystem under the eu industrial strategy.
the manufacturing of bikes and e-bikes carries considerable potential in europe, and the emergence of bike valleys and their surrounding value chains in member states are highly relevant also for transporting employees with the right skills from, for example, jobs in the supply chain for internal combustion engines towards new jobs in this wider ecosystem for new mobility, including the manufacturing of e-bikes.
however, for cycling in urban areas in particular, the commission has overseen the production of several guidance documents to help municipalities to incorporate cycling into sustainable urban mobility plans.
in conclusion, the actions i have just outlined will also help the implementation of the objectives of the smart and sustainable mobility strategy, which provides for doubling of the length of cycling infrastructure by 2030 from 2 300 kilometres to 5 000 kilometres, and for the more effective inclusion of the cycling as one of the ten-t last mile solutions.
when we speak about decarbonisation, we know that cycling can contribute to significant reductions in co2 emissions and air pollution and help also reduce dependence on fossil fuels, contributing to our climate goals.
including cycling in the revised trans-european transport network and sustainable urban mobility plans could help to increase the share of cycling in eu cities.
mr president, we started this session with a moment of silence for the victims of terrorism and climate change.
pollution also kills over 400 000 europeans every year.
bicycles mean sustainable transport and tourism, pollution control, fuel independence, economy and health for our citizens.
let's not forget that bike tourism has already revitalized entire communities and brought them the chance of a sustainable income.
it lowers emissions, it cleans the air, it improves road safety and it allows us to live longer, healthier lives.
with the energy performance of buildings directive we can incorporate this.
of course the real challenge here is that we want to address the climate issue, the climate change, and we want to ensure that cycling and bicycles are part of that transition to a carbon neutral economy, and from that perspective it has to be integrated.
but i do believe that sustainable aviation fuel will have great downstream benefits as well, not just in the context of the initial aspect, with regard to carbon reduction from airplanes themselves, but also the feed stocks that will be required for sustainable aviation fuels.
and, while he was excellent in bringing all parts of the parliament together, i just believe that there were so many competing interests in here that the compromises were not suitable for what’s needed to stimulate sustainable aviation fuel investment in airlines.
many keywords have already been used in the debate: the multifunctionality of forests, their economic, social and ecological functions, and their contribution to combating climate change.
commissioner, we have forest week this week, now the forest strategy, then deforestation-free supply chains, and on wednesday we have the renewables, the renewable energy directive.
in an age of energy poverty, it will also play an important role in this work.
however, i do not like the black and white debate about whether forests are used only for economic gain or not at all, because we have also learned to use forests sustainably in forestry measures - to replant, to protect biodiversity and to use the term sustainable forestry.
i hope that the positive outlook created by the strategy will also be reflected in the legislative work of the european union, so that we will continue to have forests that we can exploit sustainably and also see their value, above all for biodiversity, because it has been a new approach in this period that must also be used in forestry measures.
mr president, the eu forest strategy for 2030 is positive in its vision of a new commercial forestry model based on protecting soil, water and biodiversity instead of the blocks of monoculture, cash crops and clear felling that have caused so much harm in the past.
but for all that is welcome in the strategy, it would be seriously undermined if we fail to end the crazy and completely unscientific policy of treating biomass as being carbon-neutral in the revision of the renewable energy directive in ireland, more than 40% of all sitka spruce grown is harvested for energy purposes.
therefore, an enormous amount of ireland’s forests are burned as biomass; 42% of all the sitka spruce in ireland is released back into the atmosphere as carbon.
we need to stop incentivising the burning of wood for energy by stopping counting it as a renewable and stopping subsidising it.
every country has a different approach, but we all share the same goal, which is to make forests healthy, to make forests sustainable, to make forests perform their environmental function, to make forests absorb carbon, to make forests meet those climate change targets, and at the same time, to make forests economically viable, and also to make forests a source of joy and a source of recreation.
but, nonetheless, it is important in that it does put as much emphasis on our ecosystem services as it does on woods and energy, and that is incredibly important.
they provide us with oxygen, regulate climate and rain patterns, and house the vast majority of biodiversity.
mr president, as has been said, the fight against deforestation is crucial in the fight against climate change and for the protection of biodiversity.
we're also doing it with the carbon taxation mechanism on our imports.
one final sentence: if we fail to stop deforestation, we will lose control of climate change.
i think it's finally a concrete step that we're taking to say that we're serious about climate protection, about fighting climate change.
but the text we established with our vote in the environment committee in july is a very good one and has the potential to bring real change.
mr president, when we adopted the report on the protection of the world's forests two years ago, which i had the honour of also drawing up, we had no real instruments other than trade clauses to promote our responsible approach to the environment.
it further increases the energy-efficiency targets and, most importantly, makes the national energy-efficiency targets legally binding for the first time.
it increases the targets for public bodies to reduce their energy consumption and also increases the yearly renovation requirements for public bodies.
it introduces possible sustainability criteria for data centres and a possible assessment by the commission of the feasibility of a transition towards net-zero data centres.
however, any future sustainability criteria for data centres must insist that data centres are powered directly by onsite renewable-energy generation or at least new offsite renewable generation.
mr president, due to the climate crisis, the summer of 2022, like the most recent ones, was characterised by increasingly frequent and extreme weather events, with record high temperatures, droughts, forest fires, intense storms and floods.
the policy choices of recent years do not respond to the climate emergency, and it is not just with more infrastructure or means that we will solve the environmental, social and health problems we face.
in short, we need serious political will to combat climate change, not the semantic lamentations that are repeated every year.
moreover, in 2022 the fire season in europe started early and the destruction of forest areas caused by fires reached new records, as did carbon emissions.
man-made climate change is causing dangerous disturbances in nature, affecting the lives of millions of people.
the european environment agency estimates that flooding will triple in frequency during this century, while heat waves, droughts and fires will increase more than tenfold over the same period.
on the other hand, it is essential to keep in mind the roadmap for achieving the objectives set by the green deal: achieving a circular economy and a climate-neutral society by 2050 requires us to overcome several challenges, especially in the field of energy policies, focusing on renewable sources and the use of carbon-neutral resources.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2007-2013).
now we talk about climate change and its consequences, but we also have to solve the climate issue.
this week we are voting on the renewable energy directive.
however, the green group consistently votes for reducing the availability of bioenergy and residual products from forestry, making it more difficult for hydropower, making it almost impossible to open mines and making it much more difficult to obtain environmental permits.
what energy sources will you have left?
energy poverty, food insecurity, loss of biodiversity, geopolitical risks, pandemics, demographic disruption and natural disasters are all factors that make the future uncertain.
and what we know for sure is that whatever climate trajectory we take, the climate will continue to change with the multiplication of natural disasters and consequences in all sectors, for all regions of europe.
adapting europe's regions to global warming must become a priority, also in europe.
we are experiencing the effects of climate change in a terrible way in the european union this summer.
that is why we must act to combat climate change, and i would be very grateful if we could achieve something concrete in implementing 'fit for 55' before the next cop, as a signal to the international community, because only internationally will we really achieve something.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i think we have all seen firsthand this summer the consequences of climate change in the form of drought, forest fires, heat waves and reduced agricultural yields.
in europe, we are already doing a lot, through the green deal, to reduce our co2 emissions, but we are not doing enough to make ourselves more resilient, to make our continent resilient to climate shocks.
and that is why i expect the president of the commission, in her speech in the next few hours, to launch a major initiative to organise resilience tests of the major european infrastructures: rivers, power stations, ports, which are not adapted to climate shocks and are not resilient.
let's stop blindly seeing the consequences of this climate shock that is going to happen anyway and let's really prepare now to face the future.
we have built renewable electricity levels to previously unimaginable levels: 40% in ireland.
a full climate transition may seem a distant challenge now, but if we are to defeat flood, drought and war, it is the only future imaginable.
the development of renewable energy is a major challenge for the environment and climate, for lowering the price of energy, but above all for our security.
but it's important to remove all the barriers to renewable energy development.
i also thank the rapporteur for including my amendment to allow the heat generated from green electricity to be counted towards the target of renewable energy in the district heating sector.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the contribution of renewable energy is now fundamental not only from the climate point of view but above all from the point of view of our energy security.
we therefore hope that the directive on authorization procedures will now be adopted with urgency, so as to simplify and reduce the time needed to build renewable energy plants.
moreover, such an ambitious target can only be achieved if we know how to exploit all the available energies, from geothermal to wind, from photovoltaic to hydroelectric, as well as bioenergy, also thanks to the role of energy and rural communities.
this requires striking the right balance between environmental sustainability on the one hand and the availability of renewable energy at competitive prices on the other.
we want to achieve climate neutrality in the european union by 2050. but climate protection is only about security of supply, energy efficiency and affordability.
and that is why i think it is wrong, with a view to developing renewable energy, to make the use of hydropower and forest biomass unprofitable by imposing strict limits.
on the contrary, wood energy must continue to be recognised as a renewable source of energy, so i do not share what mr tiemo wölken said.
sustainable forest management is essential for the much-needed reforestation and our goal of climate neutrality.
we need strong forests that can reach their full potential as carbon sinks.
hydropower is a renewable energy source that is always available, flexibly regulated and stabilizes the grid.
the problem of high energy prices in the eu cannot be overestimated.
and this summer has shown us how bad the climate crisis is and that we need to fight climate change.
so we need solutions that address all three of these problems together: that's energy conservation, that's energy efficiency, but that's also renewable energy.
mr president, renewable energy, yes, but with people in mind.
they seem to forget one fundamental point: their integration into the territory, the concentration of production in a territory, as in the case of the territory of galicia by land and sea, could have very negative environmental consequences.
energy lobbies have allies very willing to create green discourses, responsible for building and measuring some of the institutional narrative.
if some had made the same political effort, moving towards new energy formulas, such as decentralization, such as the energy sovereignty of belgian society, where a real revolution in energy efficiency has been betting on, it would be much better.
mr president, forest biomass should not be part of the renewable energy directive.
in 2019 when i was a member of the irish parliament, the then forestry minister told me that irish forestry was occupied by 51% sitka spruce and he actually boasted that 42% of this was used to harvest for energy.
and he went on to say that this was an important contribution to ireland’s renewable energy targets.
this is the kind of insanity that the renewable energy directive encourages, unfortunately.
forests are not renewable.
but it takes decades and centuries for tree plantations to sequester the carbon again.
climate system breakdown shows us that never before has international cooperation been so important.
madam president, for too long europe has been weak on energy policy.
putin is trying to use energy as a weapon against europe and our support indeed for ukraine.
increases in energy prices are putting the viability of many small businesses at risk, increasing the potential for job losses and business failures, and, of course, decreasing opportunities for our young people.
we need to diversify our energy sources and move more quickly to renewables.
and we need to tax the super-profits of energy companies benefiting from high prices.
madam president, commissioner, we need a common european response against the rise in energy prices in the european union.
it's very complicated to talk to a young person who lives on minimum wage and gives half of his income to pay bills, or an entrepreneur who wants to succeed and can't do it because of energy prices.
we need to support those who invest in this production area and the states that have capacities in this energy area - and romania, for example, my state has.
the energy market started spiking almost a year ago.
the energy prices haven’t come from nowhere.
for many europeans, the struggle to pay their energy bills is not a new phenomenon.
if the eu and its member states are serious about tackling the crisis and reducing consumption, they need to guarantee energy—efficient housing, public services, higher wages and adequate public transport for all.
madam president, commissioner simson, more renewables and energy efficiency is the way to go, and i fully agree with you.
mr president, commissioner, many european countries were far too dependent on russian energy, and we now see that it is not easy to replace them.
at present, the demand for energy is much higher than the supply in the eu, and that is what this crisis is about.
at the same time, investment in all of the eu's own low-emission energy sources must be encouraged.
the idea put forward by many of my colleagues here, that the sustainability criteria for forestry or hydropower are now being tightened up and questioned, and that there is now a debate on the production ceilings for different forms of energy, is not very appropriate at this time.
of course, we should have been a long way down the road by now, moving to environmentally friendly, renewable, public—owned energy.
now, having shot ourselves in both feet with backfiring sanctions that have allowed russia to sit on a record current account surplus while turning off the gas to europe, and forcing old people and poor people to go cold this winter because of the action of european powers, we have absolute lunacy as big energy rubs its hands with glee, us lng operators laugh and reap their dividends and europe goes back to burning more fossil fuel.
the ordinary citizens of europe paying through their cost of living or environmental damage is not the way forward.
we need publicly owned energy.
so it’s good that last week we had the first ever meeting of the high-level network on returns led by our new return coordinator, mari juritsch, who has started her important work with a lot of energy and knowledge.
but let me also conclude by saying debating is important; agreeing on the pact on migration and asylum for a true and sustainable european migration policy is even more important.
the next item is the debate on the report by christian ehler and marcos ros sempere, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on culture and education, on the new european bauhaus (2021/2255(ini)) (a9-0213/2022).
currently overshadowed by the terrible war in ukraine and the resulting crisis in european markets, the green deal offers the opportunity to both achieve necessary climate targets and improve the lives of europeans.
the report contains a wide range of demands, for example to make the bauhaus criteria concrete and to fund projects that are in line with the basic ideas of sustainability, aesthetics and inclusion.
an initiative with three pillars: sustainability, beauty and social commitment.
buildings are responsible for 40 percent of our energy consumption.
and i go even further: from a democratic point of view, is it ethical to invest large amounts of public money just to improve the energy efficiency of our buildings and cities without also improving the conditions of the people who live in them?
the way forward is to promote projects that are beautiful, sustainable and inclusive: we must involve the whole of europe, without forgetting the cultural sectors that are so essential to this project and to imagine new ways of life; we must opt for initiatives of high quality and beauty that are adapted to the needs of citizens, new spaces for new lifestyles.
the new european bauhaus must lead the rehabilitation of our housing stock, including the promotion of sustainable materials, renewable energy and nature-based solutions.
let us seize the golden opportunity that we have with the energy efficiency of buildings directive and the wave of building renovation, and all this without forgetting the most important dimension of the new bauhaus, social inclusion: we have to fight energy poverty, protect vulnerable households and achieve buildings that consume less and are accessible and affordable.
with these objectives and a programme with a stable budget, the seed that has been sown throughout europe will grow, and we will make the lives of thousands of citizens, of thousands of families, better by renovating their homes and, moreover, we will live in a europe with less energy consumption and less pollution: let us grow this seed.
but if the commission is calling for cultural movements, it must also answer the following question: why do we treat the promotion of functional, sustainable and inclusive housing and lifestyles as a piece of jewellery in our policy priorities?
this compass will be the basis for evaluating bauhaus projects; the values of the european bauhaus - sustainability, aesthetics for quality, experience and inclusion - will be defined.
thirdly, the commission also shares parliament's view on the need to strengthen the participation of the cultural and creative sectors, and on the importance of protecting europe's rich cultural heritage, in particular against the effects of climate change.
it is about sustainability, energy-neutral housing but also housing in a sufficiently green environment.
a healthy environment and a healthy lifestyle can ensure that people can live longer, can be more involved in society, and that is actually what one of the values of europe means.
since then, this concept has been given shape through the joint work of all those who want europe to be, above all, a future place of comfort for all our citizens, wherever they live, from the remotest islands and villages to cities and urban areas, so that the construction of the europe of the future is safe and stylishly adapted to our rich historical and cultural heritage in line with the needs of the modern way of life, and above all a healthy and beautiful environment for our youngest and oldest members of society, who have been most exposed to this pandemic, earthquakes, floods and fires.
i congratulate my fellow rapporteurs on their excellent work and call on the european commission and the member states to create, in line with this report, sustainable tools for implementing the vision of a europe fit for every person.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the bauhaus was founded to give a cultural, artistic and sustainable impetus to our cities, our homes and our way of life.
i think that today, in the energy crisis that we are experiencing, which has not been so severe for decades, the new bauhaus can also be a useful tool in our toolbox to deal with this crisis.
and so i think we really need to change the paradigm of how we build houses and buildings, how we make them more energy efficient but also accessible and socially inclusive.
i say beautiful, even in the crisis phase and the construction of a new model, more sustainable and energy-saving.
and by encouraging the use of energy-efficient materials and solutions, including through cooperative production models, like energy communities, that, i think, is also a movement that includes efficiency and sociality.
the fight against energy poverty is a precondition, we have always said, to achieve a just and equitable energy transition, but i say, let's make it beautiful, also the fight against energy poverty, let's give answers of quality and artistic value.
so that the bauhaus is the push we needed to combine all these elements, beauty and sustainability, even and especially in the crisis.
mr president, commissioner, the new european bauhaus transposes the philosophy of the green pact into our daily lives, making the environment close to its principles.
i am convinced that the european parliament will support the report on the new european bauhaus because it contains a lot of energy from everything that was proposed by all the co-rapporteurs during the debate on the report.
the new european bauhaus can facilitate the wide application of the renovation wave throughout the spatial design, planning and renewal of the existing building stock, to extend the life cycle of buildings, improve their energy performance, ensure the safety and durability of architectural assets, apply modern technologies in construction and building management.
we must not forget the industrial heritage, the cultural heritage of europe as a whole, which can become part of the environment of the modern, modern, green pact-oriented european life.
so, we now need a greater reach into all kinds of regions across europe and beyond; a clearer funding stream with fresh resources; a focus on inclusivity and accessibility for marginalised communities; and, crucially, an explicit role in tackling energy poverty and delivering a just transition for all.
we know what they are: energy prices, climate change, cost of living, inflation, job creation.
we know from research that an employee is over 30 days more productive if an employer looks at their wellbeing and the mentality that they have, that is sustainability.
and just as we have condemned russia, despite the fact that many european countries are dependent on russian energy, we must condemn azerbaijan for this aggression and aggressive policy if we are to consistently stand up for human rights.
this morning our commission president said that it was absolutely necessary to combat global warming.
we see that total energy is involved in unacceptable attacks on the climate.
it's a real climate bomb, actually.
whether it is in tilenga, with its 400 oil wells, and particularly on the edge of one of the largest lakes in africa, which is very rich in biodiversity, or the eacop project, it is a total mega-pipeline project of 1,443 kilometres in length.
and then france, with total énergie, must be consistent with its fight against global warming.
madam president, climate systems’ break down is barrelling ahead at full speed and we’re recommending that totalenergies undertake a feasibility study on an environmentally friendly road for the 1 400-kilometre-long pipeline.
we make all kinds of agreements on climate action, and these companies behave like there is no climate disaster.
over usd 500 billion will be spent on developing new oil fields between now and 2030. conflicts are raging around the world, especially where climate disaster is undermining sustainable living for the many.
and oil companies are persuading governments to send armies and militias to quash the instability so that they can safely extract the fossil fuels that will intensify the climate crisis.
madam president, commissioner, mr rapporteur, my country, galicia, borders portugal's sister nation and needs answers that overcome the barriers that limit and separate us from the social, environmental, cultural and economic reality of which we are a part, with better transport links, such as the railway lines between vigo and porto.
cohesion policy has also been able in recent years to be responsive and respond to the challenges posed by the migrant crisis, the covid crisis or, if you like, the energy crisis.
this measure also better involves cohesion policy in the energy transition and decarbonisation processes.
the knowledge of the environment and the productive fabric, the ability to connect with citizens and work together on the essential changes in mobility, waste treatment and other key issues, resides in regional and local institutions; therefore, directly connecting cohesion operations with those who know the territories best is not only a necessity, it is already an obligation.
and when we talk about regulations, red tape, the unwinding of all of these barriers, the most immediate challenge, commissioner, is the lack of access to credit to address what is going to be a major crunch in the next couple of weeks and months with escalating energy prices.
we are going to see an awful lot of small and medium-sized businesses go to the wall if they can’t access working capital and short-term credit to facilitate the extraordinarily high energy bills that will land on their desks in the next couple of weeks.
in ireland alone, some companies, or some small and medium-sized businesses, are experiencing a threefold increase in their energy bills alone.
madam president, for a river that is home to over 40 local species of fish, the 100 tonnes of dead fish pulled from the river oder is nothing short of an ecological disaster.
but it shouldn’t take an unmitigated ecological disaster to wake us up to the crisis state that the rivers and water sources are in across europe.
according to data from the european environmental bureau (eeb), 60% of europe’s rivers, lakes and wetlands are not in good ecological health.
and it is an environmental disaster of enormous proportions, the cause of which has not been clarified, the full of extent of which cannot be foreseen.
we know from the polish parliamentary inspection revealing nearly 300 sites of illegal waste water discharge, but it is unclear about what and who is responsible for this poisoning.
he could not be here today, but i spoke to him before we started to debate this horrible case, and he confirmed to me that it is among his main priorities to understand what happened, why it happened, and what all those involved can do to restore the river’s ecosystem.
it is planned for the end of november as part of the package on zero pollution, as you also probably know.
at the same time, i would be very concerned that we would use this to put up barriers to international trade, to put up barriers that force, rather than encourage, competition, and that ensure that we have the standards that we can export across the globe as well in terms of environmental, labour and other standards as well.
we can continue to bend the knee to vested interests that keep the pressure on the european union to protect their profits, to continue growth, or we can to take a sustainable course.
the un secretary-general has appealed for massive global support and tougher action on climate change.
rich nations have an urgent responsibility to reduce their emissions, but not enough is being done.
the eu is now undermining its climate goals to facilitate the us/nato proxy war in ukraine.
the eu and its citizens are paying a massive financial and climate cost to support this proxy war.
the pandemic has made us understand better than ever the link between human health, animal health and environmental health, as well as rethinking all our health policies.
and we have to do that because these other problems, for example in the energy sector, are big.
– madam president, let me thank you for the welcome opportunity to have this discussion today on ocean governance and biodiversity.
in a few weeks time, the climate change cop 27 in sharm el sheikh will be an opportunity to further strengthen ocean climate change, mitigation and adaptation action.
and the biodiversity cop15 in montreal will aim at an ambitious agreement, including targets to protect land and global oceans by 2030. honourable members, as we have often said, there is no green without blue and under the umbrella of the european green deal, this translates in both the international and the eu domestic strands of ocean related policies.
in this context, one of the key priorities we have is to halt and reverse the loss of marine biodiversity.
we hope to achieve this by concluding as soon as possible an ambitious un treaty to protect biodiversity in the high seas, including a target of 30% marine protected areas by 2030 and new large-scale marine protected areas in the southern ocean.
another priority is to protect the seabed by prohibiting deep-sea mining until its effects on the marine environment, biodiversity, human activities have been sufficiently researched, the risks are understood and the technologies and operational practices are able to demonstrate no serious harm to the environment.
furthermore, we need to ensure sustainable fisheries with a zero tolerance approach against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
our fight against climate change and against marine pollution continues as well.
this includes decarbonising the maritime sectors and preserving the oceans-blue carbon function, as well as work towards concluding an ambitious, legally-binding global plastic agreement by 2024. last but not least, we need to step up efforts to build up ocean knowledge.
based on european programmes such as copernicus and emodnet, we want to support the implementation of a un decade collaborative centre for ocean prediction and encourage the establishment of an intergovernmental panel for ocean sustainability.
the ocean, which acts as a significant carbon sink - notably its seabed, is one of our strongest allies when it comes to reaching our climate goals.
let me recall that we proposed a new standard on greenhouse gas intensity of energy used on board ships.
and climate mitigation efforts need to go hand-in-hand with sustained and robust action on adaptation, to make our oceans as resilient as possible.
looking at how the ocean can support our decarbonisation efforts, offshoring renewable energy is one of the pillars of the eu’s energy transition, but we will need to look beyond offshore wind.
the energy from tides and waves are predictable and promise to complement today’s technologies for wind and sun.
as regards the oceans economic potential, the implementation of our communication on the sustainable blue economy has already brought many positive achievements.
in parallel will continue our joint efforts with member states and coastal communities to make eu fisheries more sustainable.
important progress has already been made in the atlantic, clearly showing that the sustainability pays off also economically, but additional efforts will be necessary also in other sea basins.
honourable members, we all know that only healthy oceans can be climate mitigators and provide services for our blue economy.
therefore, it’s not a luxury, but it is a necessity to prevent and mitigate the pressures provoking the biodiversity loss in our seas.
we are now at a crucial moment in which we have the opportunity to put in place concrete actions to stop biodiversity loss, as well as restoring the marine ecosystems, and sustainable fisheries play a key role in this context, and the recent commission proposal for a new nature restoration law, as well as the upcoming action plan to conserve fisheries resources and protect marine ecosystems, will not only contribute to protecting and restoring our seas, but also to making the fisheries sector in europe more resilient in the long term.
we are constantly reminded that exploitation and pollution will forever affect the global ecosystem that we call home.
in 1967, when the maltese delegation brought forward the radical notion that our seabed is imperative to humanity’s ecosystem, they were viewed with astonishment and great suspicion.
and with this resolution we table in the european parliament, as of today we make our voices heard that the protection of our ocean is not just a kind gesture to the very place where life began, but an urgent necessity if we are to protect biodiversity, the seas and even our atmosphere.
threats such as pollution or illegal fishing require concerted action by all states.
ocean governance is not understood without sustainable fisheries management, both from the environmental, economic and social point of view and also from the food security point of view.
the biodiversity, the diversity of the oceans, it's not being properly protected.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to protect the marine environment, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account.
we need to make sure that these ships are not just dirt-throwing vessels, but that they are sustainable and clean.
we are protecting our environment and we are actually protecting the climate.
so: full support for this resolution with a clear focus on more environmental and climate protection and, above all, more and better protected areas.
this decision is arbitrary because it does not include environmental, social and economic impact reports and because it is not based on the best available scientific reports.
the fisheries sector has been through a very difficult adjustment, socially accepted and assumed since the full awareness that only sustainable fishing and the protection of biodiversity guarantee the future of the sector.
we see how the commission's action in this context sometimes has perverse and undesirable effects, both for operators in the european union and for the environment.
let's make environmental sustainability possible, but also socioeconomic sustainability.
these are still the largest reserves of biodiversity on earth.
it is up to us to find solutions that allow us to take even better advantage of the benefits these offer us, but in a sustainable way.
madam president, it's good that in this resolution we're calling for international measures to end nuclear and military waste in the oceans.
anywhere you find a foreign military base, you will find high levels of contamination and a marine environment struggling to cope.
madam president, i think it is a good motion on ocean governance and i too am glad to see the reference to military waste and activity, because military activity treating our ocean as a firing range is massively damaging to biodiversity.
we know, of course, that methane is 80 times more powerful than co2 in heating the atmosphere, and methane leaked rather than burned is even worse and will have a massively lasting impact on the climate.
it is a climate and environmental crime.
commissioner, on the battery regulation, i introduce a raw material loop a ban on the export of waste batteries but thats rejected by the envi committee.
of course, it has been said that waste is being saved, money is being saved, but as vice-president for the internal market, i am thinking, commissioner, of the citizen.
we all know and you all said it: it's good for the consumer, it's good for the consumer's wallet and it's good for our environment.
besides, the environmental benefits are huge.
i think sara said it too: 13,000 tons of electronic waste from unused cables that we can actually avoid.
the eu is defending the interests of its citizens against the market power of the tech giants, with laws that protect the wallet and the environment.
with this law, we are saving equipment from dying in the landfill and taking a giant step towards a circular economy that uses resources responsibly and eventually produces no waste and puts people before profits.
this was essential in reducing electronic waste and making life easier for our citizens, our consumers.
this directive underlines the eu’s commitment to sustainability by reducing annual electronic waste by approximately 11 000 tonnes.
it will make everyday life easier for consumers and is a concrete example of a practical and positive change that our environment so desperately needs.
societies are digitalising and we do need to take many, many concrete steps to make it fair and sustainable.
this is a part of the broader action to address sustainability of the electronic products and reduce e-waste.
the reduction in the volume of e-waste also benefits the environment, and this is a good example of the regulatory role of the european union.
without our action, this fragmentation of the market and this senseless waste would continue to exist.
energy prices are rising in the european union, and i think we definitely have more important things to do than talk about a single cable to charge our phones again.
we are not just talking about reducing waste or cutting costs.
madam president, vice-president vestager, in politics progress can be reflected in critical changes in the lives of our citizens, and today the introduction of the single charger for mobile phones, computers, gaming machines, including apple devices from 2024, is an important step towards making sustainable products the norm and not the interesting exceptions.
but you all understand in this room, and certainly the consumers watching us, the citizens watching us, that we are running out of time, neither in environmental terms nor in economic terms.
the regulation on sustainable products, which i have the honour to refer to on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, creates the scope for the production and sale of mainly sustainable products that will be repaired, reused and recycled.
the future is sustainable, as long as it doesn't take us another 15 years to get there.
so let's not hide our pleasure in the gray of the environment.
but this is also an environmental victory.
it is easy to imagine the thousands of tonnes of waste generated by these devices.
they also appreciate that electronic waste is a massive problem and it does urgently need to be tackled.
we also urgently need a legally binding right to repair, and legislative measures to halve food waste by 2030. the parliament’s report on the eu’s circular economy action plan called on the commission to propose targets to significantly reduce the eu’s material and consumption footprints by 2030 and bring them within planetary boundaries by 2050. this was a radical demand, but when will the commission act?
existing contradictions are being exacerbated by the sanctions on russia, by the continuation of the war and by the inflationary spiral; by the climate crisis, by neo-colonial structures of exploitation, such as the french colonial franc system where france still receives a colonial tax from 14 former colonies – to loan them back their own money with high interest rates when ensuring government contracts to french companies.
but this is also a region that is at the center of a perfect storm: the disruption of imports caused by the conflict in ukraine and high prices of raw materials and grain combine with one of the worst droughts in decades, ultimately leading to climate change that is much more severe than elsewhere.
the ecological and energy transition we are undertaking as a union would represent a great added value for the countries of the region, but it cannot and must not be imposed, but must be promoted and supported by a constructive dialogue, based on the sharing of best practices of european know-how in the fields of interest.
with kenya, we launched this year a strategic dialogue to deepen our relationship along three strands: security, sustainable development, trade and investment.
first, we need to tackle the root causes of conflicts, extremism and radicalisation, such as terrorism, extreme poverty, the consequences of climate change and long—standing border disputes.
these are just a few examples of the political situation in this region of over 100 million people, which is also experiencing the worst climate emergency in the last 40 years.
‘consider encouraging’ will do nothing for countries crushed with debt obligations that siphons to the north any public money that could be used to shore up climate and famine defences.
and what about the people facing climate and food insecurity?
during that campaign, the un advisor on water, maude barlow, made the point that ireland’s system of paying for water through progressive taxation with a user fee for only non-domestic users was an exemplary model of fair, equitable and sustainable service delivery for the world.
that is why we must ask the s&d group, the greens and the liberals what their position is on the unilateral action of the scholz government, the liberal green socialist government, to give 200 billion euros without any coordination, without any coordination with the european union and its partners for energy subsidies, destroying confidence between the states and fragmenting the single market.
security is the highest priority – whether it’s an energy crisis or is it unbearable prices, the lack of energy because of so much reducing energy from russia.
this means a wide energy palette, for which the commission's attempts to limit the production of bioenergy are not appropriate.
when differences of opinion arise over energy or, say, visas, the eu's ranks are shaken.
mr president, i welcome the outcome of the commission’s review on the 15-point action plan on trade and sustainable development.
if you take, for example, environmental standards, labour standards, social employment standards and other human rights obligations, it is imperative that we start to shift and nudge not just europe, but also, more importantly, the people that we are trading with whose standards are not ours.
pakistan, it has been said, emits only 0.3 percent of greenhouse gases.
and yet it is paying a heavy price today for the climate disruption which, combined with the unequal world order, is a real double punishment for the poor countries and will be even more destabilizing tomorrow on a global scale.
here, as there, i therefore call on the european union to honour its commitments to developing countries and to step up its efforts to make adaptation to global warming a global priority, particularly at the next cop in egypt.
i was in pakistan recently, and the pakistani government told us, yes, this is all climate change, and we'd like to be compensated.
– i’d like to ask the mep a question about climate justice.
you say that pakistan should ask india and china, the big polluters, for compensation for climate change.
we know for a fact that climate change has been predominantly caused by the developed world – ours.
the west has been predominantly responsible for the impact of climate change, but they’re not the ones that feel the impact of it.
pakistan emits less than 1% of the world emissions.
tell me, why should the people responsible for climate change not give them reparations?
more than ever, this is a time for climate justice.
real climate justice means loss and damage payments.
it means climate reparations from those who are most responsible for climate change – the developed west – to those who are the least responsible and the most affected.
the 2021 glasgow climate pact was a failure in terms of agreeing loss and damages for the most vulnerable nations.
the eu is forever telling us about its climate leadership, despite the fact that the green deal targets are well below what is required from the global north.
climate change, not the war in ukraine, is by far the biggest crisis facing this planet.
this climate-induced disaster is leaving behind a trail of destruction, starvation and diseases.
mr president, what happened in pakistan is devastation beyond belief and there is no question but that it is climate induced.
pakistan’s climate change minister, sherry rehman, blames the inefficiency of the north—south climate deal.
she says there is so much loss and damage with so little reparations to countries that contributed so little to the world’s carbon footprint that obviously the bargain made between the global north and the global south is not working.
a second coup against aristide in ‘04 by the french and americans ushered in pro-west leadership that ensured no nation—building would be carried out, no investment in infrastructure that might help haiti to prepare for earthquakes and the ravages of global warming.
the situation is, of course, completely different in the democratic european environment, but the negative trend provides an additional incentive to promote media freedom and the protection of journalists and media workers all over the world.
the first thing we have to do is to ensure that we have certainty going forward in terms of energy security and the cost of electricity across the entirety of the european union.
so whatever we do, we must ensure that we have strong unity of purpose, sanctions hit russia, and that we try to alleviate the pressures on european citizens by ensuring that we have a cap on gas that reduces the cost of electricity and energy across the european union.
but unfortunately, they see that extra revenue going up in smoke entirely because of the extraordinarily high bills for feed, energy and, indeed, fertilizer.
here in the european parliament and in the european commission we are aware of the problems with energy supply and we are taking a number of measures to keep people warm, to enable them to live as normal as possible.
and if we've realized in energy that wind and solar can't meet all of those needs, and now we're even using coal, lignite, to meet those needs.
this is clearly stated in the 'fork to fork' package in particular, and i am convinced that, as in the energy sector, we need all types of farming, both organic and integrated, as well as conventional, and that is why we need fertilisers.
moreover, the sector faced three major challenges this year: rising fertiliser and energy prices, severe drought and the war in ukraine.
unfortunately, the european commission has so far not come up with enough measures for the agricultural sector, and proposals to reduce fertiliser consumption or carbon emissions only hurt farmers.
together, we must carry out our duty always to protect the health of our citizens, our economy and our environment.
the greek authorities, supported by frontex, are operating in a very complex, very volatile environment in which turkey – we can all agree – is weaponising desperate people.
therefore, in the current socioeconomic and political environment, it can be very difficult to comply with these regulations.
there is huge methane emissions during the transport process, and we’re talking about buying into contracts with the us for years to come.
mr president, these are the first main files of the ‘fit for 55’ package that we’ve had to deal with in the tran committee and i have to say, looking on them, i’m not that hopeful that we will meet our environmental goals.
i mean, shipping emits 3% of global co2 emissions, yet the international maritime organisation has so far failed to adopt global reduction measures in this field.
it is against energy independence and environmental preservation.
we will not secure our energy security, our economic, environmental, technological objectives without our own geopolitical role, with common defence and security.
mr president, production of green hydrogen is inextricably linked to the availability of large quantities of renewable electricity.
in an irish context, that means implementing an ambitious offshore wind energy strategy with urgency.
ireland easily has the capacity to generate over 30 gigawatts of wind—powered electricity, if it can get its act together with regard to wind energy and planning.
the risk is that ships with a sustainable and artisanal track record will end up in the scrap heap.
if you are truly in favour of sustainable fishing by the european sector, then listen to this sos and solve this issue immediately.
the abandonment of agricultural land, the increase in energy prices, the high dependence on inputs from the external market, as well as the increase in prices, make many producers go through a tremendously complicated situation, without the galician government worrying.
energy prices are subject to the power of the market and the whims of autocrats.
the european plans for an energy ceiling and a tax on usury profits help to contain the worst of the blows, but i think we need to look beyond the symptoms and look at the underlying disease.
the european pillar of social rights states that we all have the right to decent access to essential services such as energy, water and transport.
the crucial thing now is that the solution we come up with actually ensures that the energy market continues to function so that prices can regulate themselves, also in the future, and so that investors also in the future want to invest in green energy.
five months ago this week, on 19 may, this house adopted a resolution calling for a windfall tax on energy companies.
while we’ve been debating this tax for five months, households across europe have seen their energy costs soar, small businesses shut down, and millions are falling below the energy poverty line.
if we want to break the deadlock, we must first change the way the energy market operates in relation to natural gas, which is our weakest point because of putin.
mr president, it makes sense to tax the windfall profits of energy companies.
in the past 10 to 15 years, our citizens have faced the great recession in 2008, brexit and nearly three years of pandemic, and are now facing great uncertainty with inflation, the cost of living, an energy crisis, a climate crisis and multiple wars.
mr president, for the first time the european parliament is calling for un financing mechanism for climate reparations.
and i have to say i really welcome that, because the sick truth about the climate crisis, as so many colleagues have pointed out, is that it’s the poorest in society, those least responsible, who are always the hardest hit.
and, therefore, it is only right that those actually responsible for climate destruction are the ones who end up paying up.
it’s the super-wealthy who are taking up an outrageous amount of our carbon space and getting away with it.
this is where we need to start and, therefore, i’d encourage support for our amendments 13 and 16 on carbon inequality and curtailing private jet use.
the richest 10% are responsible for over half of all carbon emissions.
we need to get rid of our climate guilt and replace it with outrage.
mr president, is there something special about the military sector that makes its emissions not matter?
since the reporting of military emissions is voluntary, it doesn’t happen.
it only begs the question: why are we hiding the climate impact of the military industrial complex from public knowledge?
estimates put the military sector at around 6% of all global co2 emissions – 6%.
did anyone spare a thought about the climate impact of shovelling over 3 billion into ukraine’s war resistance?
what country did a climate impact assessment when increasing their military budget?
without peace we will not have a stable climate.
war is a climate change steroid and many people in here seem to be hooked on it.
what is more, the russian military has intensified its brutal strikes on ukrainian cities, civilian targets, including energy facilities.
and this company stands accused of a complete failure of due diligence in terms of how it acquired the land, environmental damage from pine and eucalyptus monoculture on land, which was agreed as part of the peace process to be handed over to indigenous people.
madam president, commissioner, i welcome the moves towards a real energy union.
start with tackling the cost of energy.
i welcome yesterday’s commission proposal to further manage the cost of gas and to increase eu joint procurement of energy.
we need to urgently consider further integrating our energy grids to maximise energy sovereignty and protect eu citizens.
however, it is vital that any price cap does not lead to reducing energy supplies in europe or deterring investment.
and, the last point, we spent 8 billion in the sahel since 2015, a total waste of money.
as high representative / vice—president borrell has repeatedly mentioned, we will continue to be attentive to the developments, and to pass all the important messages clearly but constructively, with the joint objective to see a sustainable future for this important partner.
the war in ukraine has triggered a rise in food prices, has contributed to further breaking, or disrupting, the supply chains of food, not just energy.
we will have to import more from other non-european countries where the fishery is not as sustainable, nor even close to those sustainability criteria, etc., of the european fleet.
as others have said here today, the benefit of this will be sustainable, resilient fishing into the future.
mr omarjee, you normally make very sensible statements, not that you haven't done so today, but i am surprised that you accuse governments like your own, france's or spain's, of defending the interests of the fishing industry and also being very concerned about the environment.
we have said many times that a marine protected area, while very useful, is not an end in itself, it is an instrument of environmental conservation which, when well supported by science and coordinated with all stakeholders, can be decisive, including for those who make fishing their business.
an environmental conservation tool, when misapplied, serves neither the environment nor the economy, but instead destroys businesses, destroys communities, destroys families.
the second is the environmental and economic problem.
from the political organization in which i am active the bng, we will always be in favour of preserving environmental resources and biodiversity.
the environment, available resources and fishing capacity have been compromised, because the social impact has not been taken into account, no updated data has been available, and no distinction is made between trawling, bottom trawling, net trawling and longlining.
there will be overfishing and that will cause an environmental imbalance.
deep-sea ecosystems are unique hotspots for marine biodiversity, in particular because species in deep-sea areas are uniquely vulnerable to overfishing.
in this regard, the sustainable conservation of vulnerable marine ecosystems is essential.
however, ‘sustainability’ is the operative word here, and for this reason, i welcome the opportunity to consider the social and economic consequences of the commission’s implementing regulation.
we must ensure that our conservation efforts are environmentally, economically and socially sustainable.
as we pointed out, and my colleagues as well, we want to have sustainable fishing.
secondly, if you ban fishing from these waters by irish and other fishers from the european union, there’s going to be a shortage of food, as my colleague mr millán mon pointed out, and therefore we are going to be importing it from other countries who do not have the same standards, who do not have the same sustainability and who are actually taking fish from our waters.
on the contrary, what we want to achieve collectively, together with the sector, is to ensure a transition towards sustainable fishing practices.
and only healthy oceans can be climate mitigators and biodiversity hotspots.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on eu support for the ukrainian research community by cristian-silviu buşoi, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o000044/2022 b9-0029/2022) (2022/2691 ((rsp)).
– mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, i would like to update you on our support for the ukrainian research community and its broader research and innovation ecosystem.
we fully recognise the importance of keeping ukraine’s research and innovation ecosystem alive and preventing excessive brain drain.
they do an outstanding job in the fields of biodiversity, circular economy and environmental and food technology.
a uachtaráin, as i say, at the upcoming un climate change conference in egypt, which i am grateful to be attending, it is paramount that an agreement of continued cooperation, and support, is reached to ensure we limit global warming to 1.5 degrees celsius.
cop 27 comes at a time of great significance with the energy crisis across europe.
the impact of climate change can also be seen following the recent flooding and extreme rain, even in my own constituency in cork.
cop 27 will need to ensure sustainable climate finance, a significant transition to renewable energies and the protection of our ecosystems, while also ensuring an affordable and secure energy source for households, farmers, commuters and industry.
we must ensure investment in research, innovation and digital technology to support the energy transition.
there is untapped and undeveloped potential in many facets of energy generation in europe, most notably solar, biogas, offshore wind, as well as green hydrogen.
mr president, this motion talks about supporting the resilience and post-crisis recovery of the eu’s cultural ecosystem as a whole, and i was very happy to vote in favour of it.
it does indicate the great risk that we are at, if we have a very aggressive neighbour like russia that is willing to attack people, destroy electrical infrastructure, to make people cold, to use food as a weapon and to weaponize energy, then be in no doubt that russia would be willing and very capable of attacking our fundamentals in terms of financial services.
the mobilisation of funds through the repowereu chapters of the recovery and resilience facility, will provide member states with much—needed financial support to achieve our energy diversification goals.
russia’s brutal invasion of ukraine and the ensuing energy crisis in europe has shown that we must end our dependency on russian energy supplies and ramp up homegrown renewables.
this could translate into 8 % of ireland’s renewable energy targets.
we take this opportunity to harness the potential of renewable technologies.
the benefits from a climate and energy security perspective would be immense.
we've heard over and over here about how there are price increases, how energy is expensive.
why is energy so expensive?
they were driven by a green, climate, alarmist utopia and hysteria.
they said there could be no electricity generation from nuclear power and they made it so that the prices of energy carriers were deliberately high.
in this room, prices have been raised and now the same people are telling us that we have to fight external dependencies - those that have made the european union totally dependent on external energy sources.
the hungarian government has not delivered in solidarity in protecting the fundamental rights of eu citizens, yet they sit comfortably in protecting their economic assets with their continued push back against sanctions on russian energy.
the third change that this resolution calls for is the transition to a healthy environment and diet.
i would like to end by stressing once again that environmental and health issues are extremely interrelated and need to be tackled together.
although the reason for the epidemic cannot yet be precisely explained, environmental factors are being put forward.
in the same way that some carbon consumption is unavoidable but can be offset, my message to those who feel they have to watch this is that you can offset your watching of this by making a contribution to some of the great human rights defenders organisations around the globe.
you’ll do it for oil and gas, because the eu has cut itself off from russian energy as it’s an authoritarian regime fighting an illegal war, but you will do business with an authoritarian regime that’s fighting an illegal war in yemen.
and second caveat some of these instruments take the energy transition, the climate transition from the member countries and so they will not allow them to achieve these goals.
madam president, nextgenerationeu is the eu’s 800 billion temporary recovery instrument, supposedly to support economic recovery from the corona pandemic and to achieve the eu’s climate, digital and economic goals.
but there is more to this galician claim: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
there is no doubt that some of the proposals put forward in regard to the emissions trading scheme and the carbon border adjustment fund will by their nature reduce over a period of time.
and if we want to expand the role that the european union plays in terms of addressing climate challenges, the digitisation of our economy, supporting the next generation recovery resilience fund and the challenges that are still very evident among the member states because of the pressures with regard to cost of living, inflation and energy security, we do need to have certainty.
we have seen how russia has blackmailed europe with energy.
global warming, for example, areas that need respectful diplomacy and cooperation.
it is important for us to address china's consistent environmental policy interests.
unfortunately, china has not supported our efforts, which we consider important in terms of sustaining climate goals.
for these reasons, the eu needs to find sustainable solutions, such as strengthening the eu’s role in assuring food supply in the broader mena region during the unprecedented global food crisis.
the next item is the debate on a topical and urgent subject (article 162 of the treaty on european union) a truly interconnected internal energy market to keep prices low and businesses competitive (2022/2961 ((rsp)).
– madam president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, we are discussing here the status of energy and the solutions for the energy crisis.
for the epp, a strong internal energy market is one of the solutions.
we really need to make sure that we are the proper continent to invest, and to invest in energy.
our crisis is also a crisis of energy supply, and we solve that by giving better conditions for investment, both for the private sector and also the public sector.
and we need fast-track procedures for our projects – both the interconnections, but also the renewable projects.
second point: if we want a hydrogen society, and i think we all do, as an important vector for europe, we really need to have a plan: a plan for infrastructure, for the production of the clean energy, for the transmission, for the transport of this hydrogen, for the delivery of the hydrogen, and all that to cover europe.
on the question of the energy market, we are of the opinion in the epp that we should intervene as little as possible in the market.
but having said that, we also need to have more general governance for our energy – a multilevel, multisector level that links the gas market, the electricity market, hydrogen, heating and cooling that also takes into consideration the decentralisation and the digitalisation of the energy system that is going on.
as many of you know, 20 years ago the european energy market was characterised by fragmentation and monopolistic national models.
energy import, production, storage, distribution and trade was often in one hand.
three legislation packages were introduced, followed more recently by the clean energy package.
this year, another factor added complexity to the challenges of setting up an integrated market, respecting the environmental commitments of the union: russia’s war of aggression against ukraine and its dramatic impact on energy markets.
the surge in energy prices jeopardised the eu’s economic development already at risk because of the covid—19 pandemic, with severe repercussions for the most vulnerable components of our societies.
the eu and its member states reacted to this new situation by seeking solutions to address the current crisis, while at the same time advancing the integration of our energy sectors in the long run.
a platform for joint purchases has been set up to buy energy from eu trusted partners, and measures to contain energy demand and enhance energy efficiency in consumption were introduced.
to act swiftly and effectively, the czech presidency has already convened three extraordinary energy councils in addition to the regular one in october.
tomorrow, during the fourth extraordinary energy council, the ministers should agree on legislation that will make the energy platform operational, strengthen solidarity among member states in the field of energy, tame price volatility and speed up deployment of renewables.
we also need to act to harmonise the features of the capacity mechanisms and speed up the rollout of smart meters and, lastly, to design new measures for further energy policy integration.
let me recall the 2020 eu strategy for energy system integration to optimise and modernise the eu’s energy system as a whole.
this strategy links the various energy sectors and carriers for electricity, heat, cold, gas, and solid and liquid fuels with each other and with the end—use sectors, reducing inefficiencies to achieve an optimal use of energy.
let me conclude by saying that, in spite of the current crisis, the eu needs to keep a long—term vision for developing offshore renewable energy, hydrogen, carbon capture and storage, energy research and development.
these are key areas to ensure the long—lasting prosperity and development of our societies and respect for the environment.
the best way to explain why we need such a proposal is to offer a very frank assessment of where we are in this energy crisis.
we are now many months since russia has begun using energy supplies as a weapon.
several member states in the energy council called on us to present a legal proposal on a price correction mechanism as swiftly as possible.
as you know, the commission has also been working to address the short—term bottlenecks of the energy transition and to speed up the permitting process.
on 9 november the commission adopted a regulation to accelerate the deployment of renewable energy.
the proposal simply includes the least controversial parts of the repowereu that can lead to a meaningful acceleration of renewable power generation.
this regulation is therefore aimed to act as a bridge until the renewable energy directive is agreed by the co—legislators and implemented in the national legal systems.
a decade into implementing our european infrastructure policy, member states’ energy grids are now better interconnected thanks to projects of common interest in gas and electricity.
we have brought the issue of a single internal energy market to the agenda today because we believe that what we have so far is not enough to make our member states collectively stronger, more resilient to the challenges we have seen in recent months.
this means that what we started in europe in the 1990s, what we called the internal energy market, is in fact an incomplete internal market, because it is still the member states who are responsible for building crossborder interconnectors.
the second argument: i believe - and it has already become clear, madam commissioner, that we need more leadership from you - that a european internal energy market can save up to 300 billion euros over the next ten years, because we are relying on synergies between the member states.
the energy crisis in which we find ourselves shows with all the desirable clarity how much we need a genuine internal energy market, precisely in order to reduce our dependence and increase our energy security.
i would remind you that we adopted the electricity market regulation during the last term of office, with the ambition that 70 per cent of existing capacity should be used for the exchange of energy across borders.
i would remind you that the european energy agency, acer, which we also decided to strengthen in the last mandate, would like to have the muscle to enforce this objective.
we need to have more offshore energy, as the commissioner also says.
we must get this through the permitting process, because all of this will lead to lower prices and greater security and, therefore, to the integration of renewable energy.
– madam president, the energy crisis is pushing millions into energy poverty around europe.
and instead of writing blank checks to energy companies that are making billions out of this crisis, we need to help the most vulnerable.
our first response during this crisis should be to increase the connectivity between the energy markets.
and we need a truly interconnected energy market in europe.
so in practice, this means building huge interconnectors between our national energy grids and increasing cross-border energy trade.
so with more interconnectors, we could see solar energy from spain powering the energy grid in ireland.
we could see wind energy from ireland powering homes in france.
we can see geothermal energy from central europe helping everyone in the entire european union.
it lowers energy bills and allow us and allows us to transition to a renewables based economy.
so we need a truly integrated energy union to protect consumers and the vulnerable.
russia’s war of aggression is destroying ukraine’s economy and pushing its population into energy and social poverty, terrorising its people, with more than 25% being internally displaced and 7 million fleeing abroad.
maybe some politicians don't see things as they are, that in fact the war is on our border, on the border of the united europe, and there is no european citizen who does not feel the effects of putin's energy blackmail in his pocket or who has never felt his fake news campaigns, whether they are citizens of the netherlands or austria, or whether they are citizens of romania.
– mr president, honourable members, commissioner, let me start by thanking you for this opportunity to discuss such an important topic ahead of a very crucial conference for the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity for the next decade and beyond.
as you very well know, the race to protect the natural world and its biodiversity reaches a critical milestone this december.
we are now living in an age of extinction, with biodiversity loss ranked as one of the biggest threats facing humanity.
the intergovernmental science-policy platform on biodiversity and ecosystem services showed that, unless action is taken, around 1 million species are threatened with extinction.
we are thankful to the european parliament for consistently supporting stronger measures for biodiversity protection.
biodiversity and climate change are inseparably linked and need to be addressed together.
we must step up our efforts to limit global warming to below two degrees and mitigate climate change, as well as to develop strategies and set targets to halt biodiversity loss.
the council expects the following at the upcoming cop15: the parties will adopt an ambitious and comprehensive framework, which is matched by the resources needed for its implementation; clear and measurable targets to address overexploitation, pollution, fragmentation and unsustainable agricultural practices; a plan that safeguards the rights of indigenous peoples and recognises their contributions as stewards of nature; finance for biodiversity, and the alignment of financial flows with nature to drive finances towards sustainable investment.
in these conclusions, the council stressed the need to include in the global biodiversity framework: the effective conservation of at least 30% of global land and at least 30% of oceans; the restoration of 3 billion hectares of degraded land and freshwater ecosystems and 3 billion hectares of ocean ecosystems; the elimination of all illegal, unsustainable or unsafe harvest, trade and use of wild species; the halting of human induced extinctions of known threatened species; the harnessing of the full potential of nature-based solutions; the reduction of the levels and risk of pollution from all sources; the prevention of the introduction and establishment of all priority invasive alien species; the implementation of practices for the sustainable use of biodiversity, and the need to address land and sea use change negatively affecting biodiversity in all ecosystems.
– mr president, minister, honourable members, the un biodiversity cop – cop 15 – is almost upon us.
a successful cop, one that adopts an ambitious post—2020 global biodiversity framework, is a key priority for the commission and for me personally.
protecting the health of people and the planet are central elements of the european green deal, and we must reverse the trend of biodiversity loss and we must do this urgently.
we need nature for food security, disaster risk reduction, sustainable jobs, poverty, education and health.
we need a framework that credibly addresses the biodiversity crisis.
and let me remind you, we will never solve the climate crisis if we do not help nature, our best ally, offering us so many nature—based solutions.
cop 27 confirmed loud and clear that there is no way to limit global warming to 1.5ºc without taking action to protect and restore nature, including a first—ever mention in the cover text of tipping points and nature—based solutions.
as i’m sure you recall, we have several key priorities for the post—2020 global biodiversity framework.
let me start with targets to ensure sustainable use of biodiversity.
integrating biodiversity across policies and sector is a key priority for europe.
we also need ambitious targets to address the direct drivers of loss, not only for the sake of nature, but also for sustainable livelihoods and poverty eradication.
this is because pollution is also a health issue.
they are essential stewards of biodiversity.
we must protect the areas most important for biodiversity and ecosystem services.
we must ensure solid biodiversity outcomes by the middle of the century.
that includes halting human—induced extinction, increasing ecological integrity and connectivity, and increasing the area of natural ecosystems by 20%.
we need a significant reduction of our ecological footprint by 2030 to bring it within planetary boundaries by 2050. we want clear and operational provisions on financing of implementation.
we must align all financial flows with biodiversity objectives and eliminate or repurpose harmful subsidies.
for each dollar that we spend on biodiversity funding, we currently spend 8 dollars harming biodiversity.
however, we also know that a significant increase of international public biodiversity financing will be needed.
president von der leyen has pledged a doubling of our international biodiversity funding to eur 7 billion over the period of 2021—2027.
the global biodiversity framework will only make a difference if it includes both a strong monitoring framework and much stronger mechanisms for review of implementation.
we are also putting in place a global knowledge centre for biodiversity, a science service for all to be launched at cop 15. this knowledge centre aims to help developing countries to build capacity for monitoring and reporting and to make data collection easier.
the intergovernmental panel on biological diversity and ecosystem services warned in 2019 that the loss of nature is accelerating at an unprecedented rate, with serious impacts on the quality of life on earth, and that one million species face extinction.
and this latest plan contains four long-term goals for 2050 and 22 targets already for 2030. the four goals focus on the conservation, sustainable use and enhancement of biodiversity, such as protected areas, reducing pollution, ensuring sustainable food production and phasing out billions of dollars in public subsidies where they harm nature.
i consider this to be one of the possible objectives, but i think it could be complemented by, for example, an assessment of the overall state of biodiversity or the global extinction rate, i.e.
the biodiversity crisis is a planetary emergency.
and none of the goals of the paris summit, on global warming, can be achieved if we are not able to restore our natural sinks.
but please, we have to eliminate the incentives that are detrimental to biodiversity, by reducing them by at least 500 billion a year.
mr president, thank you to all my colleagues, to the commissioner and to the minister for all these warm words about the importance of biodiversity and protection of our biodiversity.
for example, we need to make sure we have our house in order on the protection of biodiversity and to halt the loss of biodiversity, which we promised for 2010, which we promised for 2020, and which we are probably now promising for 2030. we are still losing biodiversity on a daily basis.
you said that you were there, so you also know that the only way for success if it’s europe not only pushing for ambition, but also reaching out to the hand of developing countries, because they are suffering the most, most of the time from western companies encroaching on their biodiversity.
now you can get paid for producing not just meat, dairy, grains and greens, but also butterflies, bees, bugs, clean water and carbon sequestration.
when it comes to funding for biodiversity, cap offers many opportunities.
i don’t think they are, because the old idea still persists that producing bugs, butterflies, doing something for carbon sequestration isn’t real and producing beef is real.
the reason why is that they still don’t believe it’s as important to produce biodiversity as it is to produce meat.
the stark reality is that we have lost 70% of all wildlife since 1970. so since my childhood, we are witnessing a complete ecological breakdown.
mr president, as the un secretary-general, antónio guterres, has said, the world is on a highway to climate hell and with its foot firmly on the gas.
despite the many ongoing efforts, global biodiversity continues to decline, with several targets set in the strategic plan for biodiversity 2010-2020 not being met, and the scenario is more than certain to worsen in the coming years.
sustainable use of resources and equitable sharing of benefits and costs, with the key being to involve frontline communities, who depend on and are in tune with their ecosystems, and to accept their demands and concerns.
economic growth contributes to biodiversity loss, but doesn’t necessarily contribute to our well-being.
it’s about de-scaling unnecessary production and consumption in a way that actually increases our well-being and enhances ecological conditions.
how long more before we realise that we cannot fix the climate crisis with capitalism?
the eu is the world's largest aid donor, but with today's policies, both climate goals and global sustainability goals are out of reach.
it's a government that's failed its sustainability goals, failed its climate, failed its election promises, and now it's failed the world.
the sustainable development goals are an objective for the entire international community, including the european union.
it is the european union and china and all others who have a duty to respond to the situation created by a financial gap of more than 4 000 billion dollars that is missing every year to achieve the sustainable development goals.
the european parliament resolution in december 2020 and the resolution on the un climate change conference in sharm el—sheikh in october 2022 raised important points that we have sought to address in our work.
we have seen that civil society was given the space to discuss the challenges of climate change and also address human rights issues at cop27.
the eu-egypt relations entail a multitude of important areas from energy, trade, science and cultural cooperation to the fight against international terrorism.
it will be essential to strengthen our cooperation on trade policies, energy security, the fight against illegal immigration and human trafficking, as well as terrorism and radicalisation.
but as an italian and a european, i believe that the time has come to demand the truth about the kidnapping and death of giulio regeni, which took place in january 2016, urging the egyptian authorities to put aside the climate of hostility and lack of cooperation that they have had so far, to cooperate with the italian authorities regarding the four egyptian intelligence agents suspected of the kidnapping and to bring to justice the real perpetrators.
the harassment even extended to attendees of the climate summit.
a uachtaráin, having attended cop last week in egypt, obviously the main focus was on climate change, which of course was the primary purpose.
it is a complete waste of the progress of the last 20 years and a reversal of the promise of a better future.
large carnivores belong to the european biodiversity heritage that the eu has committed to restore and preserve through the adoption of the habitats directive and the biodiversity strategy.
i personally support the motion for a resolution, but i think that biodiversity should also be a very important value for us.
at the same time, the common agricultural policy has specifically earmarked for biodiversity eur 10.7 billion per year.
this means that the potential maximum contribution from the common agricultural policy for wolf protection would then be a very, very small amount in comparison to the total biodiversity spending claimed from the common agricultural policy.
the commission is committed to protect europe’s biodiversity, its habitats and species.
the plan to raise eur 17 billion a year for the eu budget from a new system of taxation on corporations and levies on emissions has been around for a while and is okay as far as it goes.
it was issues like mental health, like climate change, like the future of digitalisation and their impact on that.
instead of recognising and acting on its historic responsibility, the rich developed countries want to shift the blame and get other countries that do not have even remotely the same history of emissions or the same emissions per capita to pay into the fund.
it’s climate colonialism.
research shows annex 1 countries are responsible for over 90% of historic emissions.
according to the overseas development institute, the us’s fair share of climate finance is 43%, but the us pays a fraction of this, and getting the us to cough up is probably the biggest challenge for climate victims seeking justice.
now, if we are to get money from countries like pakistan, countries which are the least responsible for the problems they are facing, suffering from the impacts of climate change, we’re going to have to actually dismantle bretton woods.
and it’s all very well to be in favour of climate action in theory at a high level but to resist it in practice.
that is the real challenge that we have: to communicate climate action not just in the rhetoric at these annual meetings – whether it be at cop15 in montreal, cop27 in sharm el—sheikh – but in the legislative files.
and i fear that a lot of the commitment to climate action is skin deep.
fossil fuels at the very heart of our global co2 emissions.
germany even signed a partnership with egypt for gas supplies on the eve of the world climate summit.
it’s very clear, capitalism is not going to solve the climate problem.
they can’t build sustainable environments.
– madam president, commissioner vălean, the aviation sector has already recovered from the impact of covid-19, but two challenges remain – environmental and social.
the energy crisis is now added to this.
the challenge of sustainability and the green transition is not a threat, but it is a challenge.
we need time and resources to achieve the objectives of the package of measures objective 55. today we are still not able to produce significant quantities of sustainable aviation fuel (saf), and there is a supply problem which the market alone cannot solve and which will undoubtedly require significant investment.
the commitment of the epp group to the fight against climate change is undeniable, but we must clarify the price of the green transition in the aviation sector.
and let us not forget that those most dependent on air transport - the outermost regions - need to see that reality recognised in the regulation of emissions trading for the sector.
we also have to ensure that the like of saf and renewable technologies cannot be just the preserve of our hub airports.
sustainable mobility is undoubtedly one of the greatest challenges of the next decade.
that represents really huge impacts and increases in emissions.
both the environmental impacts, the health impacts, the impacts on biodiversity, they're huge.
it is also important to underline that finding sustainable transport solutions for the 21st century is a legislative and strategic task.
i think this is one of the most important tasks we have, to find sustainable transportation solutions for the 21st century.
this is not sustainable.
the eu must move from being a contribution union, wasting taxpayers' money, to a more sustainable, competitive union, where important reforms are actually put into practice.
it is time to put an end to waste and centralization once and for all.
the people expect us to fight corruption vigorously, but they also expect us to develop renewable energy vigorously.
this energy transition must be speeded up, and it requires preconditions.
if we want to get away from fossil fuels, if we want to get away from unilateral dependencies, if we want more european energy sovereignty, if we want to diversify energy imports and if we want the whole thing to be affordable for people and businesses, then renewable energy is the way to go.
because the sun, the wind, the water, the renewable resources, they don't charge.
they could be our main energy source by now.
so why are we only at 20% renewable?
five points for that: if you want renewable energy, you have to make green hydrogen possible.
secondly, if we want renewables, we must give them a high priority in the public interest, including climate neutrality, and not just for the next seven years, ladies and gentlemen of the environment committee.
thirdly, if we want to develop renewable energy, we must approve its development more quickly and pragmatically - hence the areas of acceleration we have proposed.
fourthly, if you want renewable energy, you cannot put a single field mouse in front of the onshore wind farm.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its energy needs.
and last but not least fifthly, if we are serious about the energy transition, we must also allow the go-to areas, the acceleration areas, in certain natura 2000 areas.
we have 50% of natura 2000 sites in the federal states alone, and if we want renewable energy, we have to allow certain installations there.
we have always succeeded with the renewable energy directive, with red.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
russia has forced us into a position where we need to find more energy and quickly.
that means that we have to take environmental law and threats of biodiversity very seriously.
member states have very different energy mixes.
– madam president, with repowereu, the commission has set out how to respond best to russia’s weaponisation of our energy supply.
we see high energy prices continuing and the winter cold starting to bite in earnest, as we all noticed this morning, so we must continue deploying the necessary measures to help our citizens and businesses to make it through not only this winter, but also the next and the next winters.
however, we also need to continue working on what is the only fundamental solution to the situation that we are in, which is a faster deployment of renewable energy.
renewables are and remain the cheapest source of energy and they are home grown.
but a faster rollout of renewables will not happen if we do not seriously tackle the factors that slow down the pace of permitting for the solutions, in particular new or re—powered renewable power plants.
if we want to accelerate the deployment of renewables, we must streamline radically the administrative procedures to approve renewable projects together with member states, who will need to act in parallel.
i am very grateful, for instance, for your proposed shortening of permitting deadlines both within and outside the so—called go—to areas, the areas where we want to simplify permitting so that one comprehensive permit allows for renewable projects to go there without separate permits being needed.
the same goes for your amendments to speed up the permitting for the underlying energy grids.
let me turn to the emergency regulation that we proposed on 9 november to accelerate the deployment of renewable energy already during the energy crisis.
it can be the bridge until the permanent solutions on permitting in the renewable energy directive are agreed by parliament and council and implemented in the national legal systems.
the selection of the location for biomass combustion plants simply does not depend on the renewable energy potential in the same way as wind and solar.
on the other hand, excluding new hydropower plants from go—to areas does not seem proportionate as suitable go—to areas can be identified where there would be no significant environmental impact.
we are, for instance, excluding tacit approval where a project is subject to an environmental impact assessment.
this commission is committed to an open and meaningful dialogue with parliament on the ways to overcome the energy crisis.
the faster deployment of renewables is the only fundamental way to get out of the energy crisis, together, of course, with saving energy, reducing our energy use.
the russian invasion of ukraine has prompted the eu to re-examine its energy system.
the european union must increase its security of supply and energy independence and must move away from fossil fuels as quickly as possible.
the production and licensing of renewable energy must therefore be promoted by all possible means.
the eu cannot afford to leave bioenergy out of the faster-moving mandates, especially now that the energy crisis has hit every citizen and the security of supply of society as a whole.
as part of the repowereu package, this house makes today another step forwards towards europe’s energy independence from fossil fuel.
a large bundle of measures are intended to lower dependence on russian fossil fuels, reduce co2 emissions and accelerate the expansion of renewables.
the overall target of increasing the renewable energy sources’ sale to 45% by 2030 stands as the sole opportunity to accelerate even further the efforts for further rapid deployment of renewables, but with significant improvements on the appropriate infrastructure and development of the grid.
at the same time, the identification and promotion of go-to areas for renewable energy infrastructure and the recognition of renewable energy as an overriding public interest stands as a unique opportunity but it needs to be seized.
it is important to underline that permitting granting process shall not exceed the six months in renewable go-to areas, the executive vice-president has already mentioned.
madam president, we need much more green electricity in europe and we need to do much better at saving energy.
we need it to meet our climate targets and we need it to free ourselves from putin's iron grip on europe's energy supply.
and in that way, renewable energy and energy efficiency have become top-of-the-line security policy, and that's why we need faster permits to expand.
so let today also be the beginning of negotiating a really good building directive to save energy and get rid of putin's gas.
– madam president, executive vice-president timmermans, our shadow rapporteur, ville niinistö, could not be here today as he is heading to the biodiversity cop in montreal.
this limited revision of the renewable energy directive stemming from the repowereu package of may aims at simplifying and shortening the administrative permit-granting processes applicable to renewable energy projects, related storage and grid connections.
this is necessary to accelerate the deployment of renewable energy, especially in the face of the current energy crisis and the need to stop using fossil fuels as soon as possible.
for our group, fighting the climate and biodiversity crises are crucial.
we also welcomed the introduction of some of the measures from the council’s emergency regulation on permitting into the renewable energy directive, especially the even quicker permit-granting for heat pumps and solar installations in the built environment.
these are low-hanging fruit in the energy transition that also bring direct benefits to people, reducing their expensive fossil fuel bills while transitioning to renewable energy sources.
and i’ve incorporated some of this into the energy performance of buildings directive.
a uachtaráin, permitting and licensing procedures remain one of the biggest hurdles in achieving mass deployment of renewable technologies.
we have more cross-border cooperation on complex energy projects.
in the renewable energy directive, i tabled an amendment to introduce a fit for 55 label for public interest renewable energy projects, which would allow the granting of a priority status in national law for such projects and thus speed up the whole permitting and planning process.
the war has changed the trajectory of eu energy policy and there is now a much greater need to ensure our regulatory framework can react to our needs.
mr timmermans, you were quite right in your opening statement when you said that there is no energy that is cheaper than renewable energy.
we need renewable energy plus hydrogen as a storage medium, and we need it as soon as possible.
madam president, mr vice-president, we discussed this morning the fourth revision of the renewable energy directive, before the third is even agreed and adopted.
this new proposal is a response, as we know, to the energy crisis caused by the crisis in ukraine and aims to further accelerate the deployment of renewable energies in the european union.
the objective of using renewable energy in final consumption in 2030 is proposed to be 45%.
i would like to mention two of them which i consider to be fundamental: the first is the commitment to regulatory testing environments which enable the development of innovative technologies in the field of renewable energy; the second is the reduction of bureaucratic burdens and of the maximum time for the national authorities to issue the necessary permits.
in the identified areas, the issuing of permits for the production of energy from renewable sources may not be delayed for more than nine months.
both measures should also be applied to other areas which are very necessary for growth and competitiveness, and not just to this renewable energy issue, which is nevertheless so important.
the energy transition can only succeed if we massively expand renewable energy.
when we talk about renewable energy, what are we talking about?
especially in times when we have an energy supply like we have now.
renewable energy is not just wind and solar, but also biomass, hydropower and geothermal energy.
we cannot discriminate against any form of renewable energy.
there can be no first- and second-class renewable energy.
we must take them into account in europe's energy transition, as we must take solar and wind energy.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i do not think anyone is disputing the need, the necessity, of this directive on renewable energy, energy efficiency in buildings, but, especially in the context of the global energy crisis, we need a balanced energy system.
every country has a different energy mix, and we have to think about how we're going to get the bills to the citizen.
then there needs to be more dialogue for the right understanding of the advantage of renewable energy and, of course, we need to see how we can rush the permits, because after all, from regulation to implementation to effect, the road is too long.
the proposal takes a sledgehammer to the eu environmental standards.
it will roll back hugely important protections under the environmental impact assessment directive and the birds and habitats directive.
this is environmental deregulation; it’s a backdoor attempt to water down environmental protections.
environmental legislation is not an obstacle to the deployment of renewables.
there is no justification to scrap key environmental assessments.
there are zero excuses for waiving environmental protections for gas storage facilities.
and speeding up the planning and permitting process does not mean that you have to jeopardise the habitats directive, the water directive and other directives that protect the environment.
in this context, we should pay greater attention to the regional aspect and the external factors affecting negotiations on a viable and sustainable two-state solution, and in particular the role of iran as a regional power.
mr president, (start of speech off mic) sustainable, permanent cease-fire, the lifting of the blockade in gaza and the establishment of a two-state solution based on the 1967 borders.
first, we should make our economies more competitive by creating a favourable environment for business and innovation, and there are a lot of concrete things that we can do there.
and i very much agree with your point that we need a decarbonised, low energy price continent, that that is the aim, and also very much how much there also investments are needed for that, we have to look at state aid.
you have to come forward with proposals on the taxonomy, also looking at the non-sustainable investments and not only green investments.
many of the green subsidies that will be introduced in america heavily discriminate against the most virtuous and advanced european industries: i am talking about our car manufacturers, the manufacturers of renewable energy systems, the manufacturers of batteries, the other energy-intensive industries in the european union, but above all i am talking about thousands of european jobs at risk.
the inflation reduction act creates a business case for a sustainable transition.
we need to invest more in energy and mobility infrastructure and deepen our european market.
we saw how bad it was for us when we found that we were missing essential elements of the european union industry, such as: we don't have chips, we don't have enough renewable production capacity.
but instead, we can say to them: come to the european union that we have a friendly business climate, we give you building permits very quickly, we give you those state aids very quickly, in accordance with the law, because we understand the need to survive and we, as the european union, and all of us who work in the european union industry.
we have been far too dependent on energy supplies from outside of europe, and now the energy crisis and increased energy prices are placing a heavy burden on our industry.
the eu leaders must finally recognise that the energy situation, the sanctions and the us economic policy are all undermining our competitiveness.
instead of heavy and slow regulations, we need an investment-friendly environment.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the decision not to reduce europe's ambitions in terms of sustainability and also fair trade at global level is understandable, despite the affront received by the measures to reduce inflation proposed by the united states of america.
we’re too busy shooting ourselves in both feet, failing to try and secure an end to the war while the us charges us four times the price for energy, having made us dependent.
the eu acted decisively when imposing a tax on excessive profits of energy companies, and there should be no unnecessary profiteering from this crisis.
it is clearly evident that there is profiteering by some energy companies, but we have to break the fundamental link between gasping the price setter of electricity across europe, and that has to happen very, very quickly, otherwise we will continue to have energy inflation feeding into the rest of the broader economy and damaging vulnerable cohorts and the standard of living of people who most need our support.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, i see you're online, watch your web browsing, ladies and gentlemen, deliberate attempts to manipulate the information environment and public discourse by foreign actors are by no means new.
the challenge over the last few years was to deepen our analysis of the current media environment and to better understand the influence of the digital environment on media production, distribution and consumption.
the general climate of insecurity for journalists is of great concern, as these threats contribute to inhibiting freedom of expression.
well, it’s because of global warming.
and my question here was: where is your global warming, ladies and gentlemen?
and now, about global warming: please let us know with data, and why are we forcing and forced to accept all this propaganda, all this idea that we are capable and we have to build our energy only by all these sources like wind, like sun, etc.?
we need to explore our own nuclear energy and to have our sovereign european energy.
this was the basis of the european union, and we must also have a european strategy for energy and for all other resources.
it was environmental terrorism.
madam president, the explosion of the nord stream pipelines was one of the biggest acts of economic sabotage ever carried out on the european union, not to mention the devastating environmental consequences.
and we also need to draw the conclusion that the biggest threat on our energy infrastructure is militarism.
the report acknowledges that 21.9% of the eu population is at risk of poverty and social exclusion, and the energy poverty is certain to worsen as a consequence of the war.
it advocates spending more money on weapons and war, money that could be spent instead on climate mitigation and adaptation, public transport, health or education.
madam president, i voted against this report because, as usual, it has nothing to do with reason or common sense and is aimed at utopias, greenness, climate change and other issues that condemn europeans to more energy poverty, more spending and a non-competitive economy.
it is time to learn the lesson from the phenomenal rise in energy crisis that has put so many european citizens in critical situations motivated by geopolitical games.