so this year, we need to focus our efforts not only on mitigating the impact that the epidemiological measures have left on them, but also on identifying and addressing those problems that they have faced before: unequal access to education, unemployment, low wages, but also the fear of climate change.
to succeed on this path, it is up to us to give them normal access to the labour market and to create the conditions for them to thrive in a healthy environment.
but your testimony, margot friedländer, and your energy at 100 years shows that dignity and identity are indestructible.
the committee on industry, research and energy has transmitted a corrigendum to a text adopted by parliament pursuant to rule 241(4).
the euro was the best investment that we could have made to ensure a stable environment for the new generations.
high environmental standards must go hand in hand with economic sustainability.
i say it again with conviction: renewables can be the future and it is right to promote them, but a real and painless energy transition needs above all programmable sources and bills that are affordable for businesses and households.
the report does not only cover obvious risk factors for cancer, such as alcohol and cigarettes, but also other cancer-causing factors, such as environmental toxins and influences.
prevention of cancer also involves reducing air, food, water and soil pollution, as well as exposure to chemicals.
this will boost economies and education, foster job creation and enable sustainable development.
this means ensuring the conditions for sustainable development on the african continent, protection for natural resources and for the people, guarantees for human rights, progress in social rights.
mr borrell, yesterday president lagarde made clear reference to negative factors affecting the well-being of our citizens, such as logistical bottlenecks and energy costs, pointing out that geopolitical tensions have increased and that high energy costs could put a stronger brake than expected on consumption and investors.
mr president, mr minister, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the main topics of the united nations conference will be climate change, the environment and the reduction of the risks associated with natural disasters.
we need the capabilities of everyone to achieve our goals, both in the fight against climate change and in all the other challenges we face today, including building more just societies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a debate on the impact of climate change on women, and i cannot see how global warming can have a different impact on women.
in another passage, the council is asked to recognise that there are certain occupations which are typically female, such as care work, and that these occupations are carbon neutral, and here we are talking about surrealism.
social justice is therefore more closely linked to the inalienable right to health and dignity than ever before, a prerequisite for a truly equitable and sustainable recovery that leaves no one behind.
the war for energy resources is becoming more and more bitter.
we cannot allow iran's energy power to override our values, we cannot be held hostage by a country that is a threat to international security.
the commission is therefore called upon to take account, firstly, of the particular situation we are experiencing at international level and the repercussions this has, not least on the energy side, and the cost it has at social, economic and energy level, and, secondly, of the red tape which local and regional administrations, in particular, are facing in these difficult times.
in the committee on energy, research and technology, and as my colleagues will tell you, i have always wanted to seek unity and cooperation, and there should be no political distinctions in the face of these challenges.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
but we also need to take responsibility: it's the failure of an idea of a globalized europe that was forced to import everything from masks to respirators during the first phase of the pandemic, and now we've woken up to the realization that we've gotten everything wrong about energy policy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to reduce the emissions of greenhouse gases from the transport sector.
and secondly, there is the energy question, which we cannot escape: firstly, because i believe that the european commission must help to guarantee supply, particularly in the light of the news we heard yesterday, but also because we have to intervene in the gas market and, above all, in the setting of prices.
in the long term, it is clear that the crisis is forcing us to accelerate the energy and ecological transition, and from that point of view, i think that the debate we will have on fiscal rules and on the ability to give more scope for investment for the ecological transition is a fundamental pillar, and the other fundamental pillar is that i think that war and the emergencies in the transition will probably force us to launch a new european fund to support this transition.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with the return of inflation and the soaring prices of energy and raw materials, more and more of our fellow citizens are struggling to keep warm, to get health care, to feed themselves and, finally, to live in dignity.
there must not, there cannot be sustainable growth and social progress without them, because it is not people who should be at the service of the economy, it is the economy that should be at the service of people.
the war in ukraine also shows the enormous risk associated with energy dependence, and even more so dependence on a fickle dictatorial regime.
let us see how we can better connect our energy markets.
but above all, let us bury the old green dogmas, such as the hopeless crusade against nuclear energy, once and for all.
on the contrary, there were many hopes that the union could leave behind the difficult months of the covid pandemic and start to face more decisively the digital, environmental and social challenges.
last but not least, we started to observe a sharp rise in energy prices and, for this reason, also of the inflation rate.
if the situation in ukraine does not improve, we could have considerable consequences on the availability of some goods and above all, of course, energy products.
this will result in an increase not only of energy prices, but also of the prices of other important commodities that will affect various sectors like agriculture, food industries and others.
the third factor is that a prolonged energy crisis and, in particular, a possible asymmetric effect in energy costs for the union would also lead to a loss of competitiveness for european industry and also to divergences in the single market.
on top of that, a prolonged phase of tension on energy prices would have consequences not only on inflation, as we have seen in the past months, but also on industry costs by influencing the investment decisions of manufacturing companies.
what is to happen beyond the pandemic and the vicious war on our eastern borders, which is literally upsetting our concept of democracy and our energy and raw material supply plans on a planetary level?
the political and material effects of energy dependence on third countries are not enough to add to the green and digital policies a further dependence on technologies and raw materials imported from areas which are now dominating our development?
i therefore call on this parliament to undertake a rapid, serious and immediate review of the rigidly outlined objectives of the next generation eu agenda to allow the respective national plans to be re-formulated in terms of timeliness and sustainability, otherwise the union will continue to be more and more a giant with feet of clay.
madam president, commissioners, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, the european semester should focus on the social priorities: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the european social security system, the social security system, the social security system, the social security system, the social security, the social security, the social security, the social security, the environment, the social and the environment.
we need an additional investment programme for climate and social infrastructure, not new military armament!
it is intolerable that while we are sanctioning the russian economy to a great extent, we are simultaneously financing the war with hundreds of millions of dollars in energy purchases every day.
the eu's dependence on russian energy has made us weak.
the eu's energy dependence must be brought to an end.
this week, the european commission presented a repowereu action to break the energy dependence on russia.
eu member states must phase out the use of russian fossil fuels and increase investment in clean technologies and energy storage.
of course, stopping energy purchases will hit member countries, but so will war.
nevertheless, it must also be recognised that the eu's diplomatic effort and mediation capacity is made much more difficult by its energy dependence on russia.
this same energy dependency is also showing the most critical aspects of the green transition.
this response must, however, also expose its weaknesses, in particular its external dependence on security and defence, its energy dependence and its relative lack of protection against disinformation and cyber attacks.
the agenda includes the report by ms simona bonafè, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on batteries and battery waste, repealing directive 2006/66/ec and amending regulation (eu) 2019/1020 (com (2020) 0798 c9‐0400/2020 (2020/0353 cod)) (a9‐0031/2022).
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we need only look around this house to see that the use of batteries is already an integral part of everyone's daily life and will become even more so in the coming years if it is true, as it is true, that europe has set itself the objective of climate neutrality by 2050. mobility will become more sustainable, our cities will become smarter, and to focus more on renewable energy sources, we will need more and more batteries.
in a nutshell, batteries will be the foundation on which to build our new paradigm of sustainable development.
this new holistic approach - i would like to stress this - will henceforth be the rule for future legislation on sustainable products and the circular economy.
the new regulation must therefore have a twofold objective: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents.
the main sustainability requirements, introduced for the first time for batteries, are the maximum carbon footprint, minimum recycled content, performance standards, durability and removability.
to make batteries truly sustainable, it is not enough to respect the environment and avoid predatory actions on natural resources, but this must be combined with respect for social rights, one of which is the prohibition of the exploitation of child labour in the mines for the extraction of raw materials.
the increased use of batteries will also result in a higher amount of waste.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, europe has often in the past made the mistake of not linking its environmental policies with a coherent industrial policy, as in the case of photovoltaic panels, a classic, and has thus created its dangerous dependence on other areas of the world, both for high-technology products and for low-technology products.
we are now faced with the challenge of high-capacity batteries, which are essential for electric mobility, but also for the whole transition to renewable energy, as the rapporteur has well illustrated.
that's why we've created the battery alliance, bringing together the world of research, business and public authorities, and in some ways we've also made progress, this very regulation makes progress: the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the challenge is won in europe if environmental policies are linked to industrial strategies, technological efforts and the full application of circular economy principles.
- mr president, commissioner, the present sad state of affairs in the world shows more than ever that europe must build up its own battery cell production for the energy transition in order to be independent of third countries.
we need 19 times as many batteries to meet the climate targets.
the same goes for protecting our environment, with a cycle from raw materials to batteries, from design to production and use to recycling.
the ultimate aim is that europe should not and cannot be dependent on third countries for such an important sector as energy.
i will not be able to name all of you, but representing the lead committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi), as well as the associated committees, the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco), the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) and the committee on transport and tourism (tran), i would address my thanks in particular to the rapporteur, simona bonafè, as well as to antonius manders, patrizia toia and ismail ertug.
thanks to your relentless work on this important file over the last years and months and to your commitment to proceeding as fast as possible to build up a large support for your mandate, we are here today close to starting trilogues once the council has adopted its position next week at the environment council.
the proposal for a new batteries regulation was our first legislative proposal implementing the european green deal and, in some respects, it constitutes a blueprint for other legislation to come on sustainable product policy.
but i also know that you would like to go further and faster with many of the sustainability requirements and end—of—life aspects.
but what matters most is that, in the end, we will have a forward-looking predictable regulatory framework which ensures the sustainability and the competitiveness of the emerging battery value chain in the eu.
i cannot stress enough how important this report is to achieving our climate goals.
a few weeks ago, we might have been talking about the environmental, ecological and social benefits of the battery regulation, which will put europe on the path to a sustainable and zero-emission future.
the report, ladies and gentlemen, is also about the strategic securing of raw materials for a rapidly growing battery industry and the acceleration of our clean energy transition.
it has been mentioned that the recycling of valuable and environmentally critical materials from batteries will be a key to a sustainable and competitive battery industry that should be at the forefront of the world.
the introduction of minimum targets for recycling efficiency and for the collection of waste batteries will make a significant contribution to this objective.
that is, with the battery regulation we will ensure that the markets for electric vehicles and e-bikes, with all the environmental and health benefits of these vehicles, continue to flourish and that these vehicles are brought to the european market.
climate change, species extinction, pollution - all these crises we must confront with all our might.
for the first time, we're thinking about product policy in a truly sustainable and holistic way, from the extraction of raw materials to low-carbon production with long life spans to real recycling.
this battery regulation can be a real blueprint for future legislation on sustainable products.
here, in the past, companies have really ignored the interests of people and the environment for long enough.
ladies and gentlemen, let us lay the foundations today for clean batteries made in europe, for future-proof jobs in europe, clean technology for the much-needed energy transition, effective consumer protection and global justice.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
this uncritical attitude towards electricity confirms an approach which is not only manichean but also lacking in a strategic vision which leads us straight to another energy dependence, that of china, a country which monopolizes, with the brutality typical of totalitarian regimes, the deposits of raw materials necessary for the construction of the batteries on which renewable sources depend.
in the course of a race to reduce co2 emissions, which would affect only the 8% of our global emissions, we have given up extracting gas from our fields, we have given up gas pipelines and gasifiers, we have closed nuclear power stations, we have abandoned coal-fired power stations, which we would like to reopen in a hurry, but, above all, we have become slaves to the purchase of energy from russia, qatar and other regimes that do not care about liberalism, which prevents us, among other things, from effectively sanctioning putin's insane war in ukraine, a conflict that could even become apolitical.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this european union action programme for the environment up to 2030, as well as the green deal and other climate proposals, in this context of crisis and war, now seem totally out of touch with reality.
the enormous increases in energy prices are taking a dramatic toll on household and business bills, with increases of up to 500%, forcing many firms to even temporarily suspend production.
i also do not share your call for the best possible use of environmental taxation.
the european union gets about 40 percent of its gas and 30 percent of its oil from russia, and our dependence on foreign energy instead of getting better has gotten worse in recent years because of the energy transition you've brought about, which has led to the closure of coal-fired power plants; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the energy tax.
i hope that the ideas of reducing agricultural production by 30% and leaving 10% of agricultural land uncultivated to protect biodiversity will be immediately put to rest.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the need to adopt an eu strategy for sustainable textiles (2022/2539 ((rsp)).
– mr president, the textiles sector has major effects on our climate and our environment and, in fact, textiles consumption is one of the top four supply-chain pressures on resource use, land use, water and greenhouse gas emissions.
as a value chain, it places huge pressure on biodiversity.
many hazardous chemicals are still used in textile products and a considerable share of the microplastics released into the environment can be traced back to the source.
we need to build in more circularity and sustainability, and that’s vital to address climate change, to help win the fight against pollution and to reduce the pressure on nature and reverse biodiversity loss.
at the end of this month, as announced in the circular economy action plan, the commission will adopt an eu strategy for sustainable and circular textiles.
it will be a strategy to strengthen innovation and reduce the environmental footprint, a strategy to boost the market for sustainable and circular textiles, a strategy for increasing textile reuse and repair, boosting circular business models and addressing fast fashion, and a strategy that can also boost the competitiveness of sustainable textiles industries.
it means better material efficiency, a reduced environmental footprint and a longer textile-usage life.
for all these reasons, textiles will also be a key value chain in the upcoming sustainable product initiative.
as promised in the european green deal, we are acting to ensure that sustainable products become the norm.
it is part of our drive for a climate-neutral europe by 2050, but more sustainable and circular design alone will not be enough.
in our sustainable product initiative, we will propose another powerful tool, which will be useful for textiles, the digital product passport, which will improve access to information about product characteristics.
what we do internally also has an impact on operators in partner countries, and that’s why our strategy ambition is, together with our partner countries, to tie sustainable and circular textile value chains globally.
also important for the textile value chain is the legislative proposal on corporate sustainability due diligence recently adopted by the commission.
it comes with a corporate sustainability due diligence obligation to prevent and mitigate actual adverse impacts for sustainability.
when it comes to achieving our social, environmental and climate goals, the textile sector plays a pivotal role.
we are facing a transitional phase where clothing is not just about sustainability and new textiles.
and yet another referred that what we share to sustainability.
the commission has also proposed that the european union should be able to provide the union with a financial contribution to the european union's climate action programme.
but the second major lever has been largely ignored - the promotion of sustainable materials.
the textiles used have a major negative impact on land use and the environment.
the production takes place mainly in countries with significantly lower sustainability standards than in the eu.
they have the potential to make a substantial contribution to sustainable textiles.
the three to five times lower carbon footprint compared to cotton and polyester means that emissions can be saved on the order of more than 400 million tonnes.
number one is the colouring of the textile, which is on one side strongly regulated by the workers’ safety regulation, the environmental emissions regulation and so on, but on the other side is still a problem.
so are we defending the environment or the animals?
let's put the stability pact to rest once and for all and approve an energy recovery fund against the expensive bills and for investments in renewables.
we are too dependent on imported hydrocarbons and raw materials and we must work to ensure that european agriculture is soon self-sufficient and sustainable, while remaining safe for consumers.
we are restoring those who have suffered losses, we are helping those who want to produce in a virtuous way, making ourselves independent of russian and ukrainian raw materials, but without even thinking of using war to betray the work done so far on organic, the limitation of pesticides, sustainability and the defence of biodiversity.
we must unlock our productive potential to achieve the highest possible degree of food self-sufficiency, while preserving those social and environmental sustainability goals which are themselves the fundamental tools for achieving our food sovereignty.
cutting off two-thirds of russian gas imports has geostrategic value, sure, but few are thinking about the risk of energy rationing.
the common gas purchasing policy is a failure of the market logic on which the union's energy policy has been built in recent years.
finally, over the years you have created all the conditions for the union to become dependent, too dependent, on energy imports.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the energy crisis is choking businesses and citizens, is undermining economic recovery and, last but not least, is giving putin's russia a weapon of blackmail against europe.
the european union was born out of the ashes of war, out of energy itself, as the coal and steel community.
so today we are in the pursuit of energy independence, which is essential to strengthening europe's role in the world.
i am thinking of the explosion in energy costs and the supply of raw materials, which are putting citizens and businesses in many regions, such as the mountainous areas of my own country, in difficulty.
we need to use the most environmentally friendly vehicles to achieve the climate targets we have set ourselves here in the eu, and certainly renting is a useful tool for businesses to manage those temporary spikes in demand.
we have a war and we have jackals who are exploiting the infamous war promoted by putin to enrich themselves, raising the price of energy and bringing whole families, businesses, sectors that count millions of workers to their knees.
in sicily and sardinia, as in many parts of europe, the situation is dire: farmers, fishermen, truck drivers are on their knees for expensive energy.
europe wants clean energy and complete independence from the fossil fuel masters.
however, these are and must remain measures complementary to the teaching in the presence of the pupils; in the context of the european year of the environment, the commission has launched a new initiative entitled 'a european year of the environment'.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the aggression against ukraine has turned the energy issue into an economic crisis that is hitting households and businesses hard.
at this stage, addressing the role of transeuropean energy networks is strategic for all of us.
but to deal with the current crisis we would have preferred a less ideological approach: the role of natural gas transmission networks, which is essential for the continent's energy security and, above all, for reducing emissions, continues to be marginalized, at least until alternative solutions are developed.
the preference for electricity or hydrogen is insisted on, and no one denies the potential of these, especially when they are based entirely on renewable energy.
is it a waste of our planet's resources?
but in any case, the heavy sanctions against the russian and belarusian people have had no effect on the war scenario, while they have triggered a very serious energy crisis and repercussions on the industrial, agricultural and food systems of european countries.
the member states, where we are still somewhat stuck and somewhat behind, should not waste any more time on partnership agreements and cohesion policy, to avoid obscuring the importance of this policy and giving the impression that the member states are not interested.
we must immediately provide for measures to integrate refugees into the education and health systems of the member states, but at the same time we must be able to deal effectively with the economic and energy impact on european citizens.
we must therefore not waste time, we must work hard to ensure that we are not again unprepared to face the evolution of other conflicts.
it is a very difficult time for businesses and households affected by the energy and food crisis.
in short, we are facing an unprecedented crisis: pandemics, war, energy shortages, food shortages.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today we remember sir plumb, knowing that organic is the only way to protect the environment, food safety and greater independence from non-eu producers, and to prevent the damage caused by unhealthy products to the health of citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner wojciechowski, the organic action plan can be an important instrument for reconciling environmental objectives and european agricultural sovereignty, which are more important than ever today.
but to set a target of 25 percent of organically farmed land by 2030, when some states are not even getting to 5 percent, means two things: either it is an excuse to create a biological watering hole that will fuel environmental distortion and dumping, or it is proposing something that is doomed to fail from the start.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first the pandemic, now the war in ukraine, the transport and tourism sectors are once again in a state of severe distress and with the increase in energy costs reflected in the increase in ticket prices, even travelling is becoming impossible for many families.
we are approaching the summer season with an indiscriminate increase in fuel prices, high energy prices and inflation reducing the economic availability of european citizens.
we have already started in energy and some other sectors, but tourism as a sector is also directly affected, as tourism activities are not essential for life, and the decline in consumption is most rapidly felt in the tourism sector in the crisis.
we see supply shortages, disruptions in the logistics sector and high energy prices.
we are facing naturally a loss of russian and ukrainian tourists all over europe, and the costs of energy, foodstuff and fuel are growing fast.
we have some elements that have come up in the last few weeks: the problem of storing energy resources for the coming winter; the question of whether to pay in rubles or in euros, on which companies need clarification.
but i would like to point out one thing: between covid and the russian-ukrainian conflict, europeans are experiencing the biggest economic and social crisis since the post-war period, with energy prices skyrocketing and the cost of living doubling.
the relocation of plenary sessions to brussels during covid has shown that with a single venue it is possible to reduce pollution and costs.
we want to reduce our emissions by 55% by 2030. we even want to be climate neutral by 2030. but this will only work if we involve and support the many small and mediumsized enterprises, the smes, in this process.
without it, nothing in europe works, not even the energy transition.
if these companies want to invest in climate-friendly energy and energy efficiency, we need to give them much stronger government support, as well as the products and goods they produce.
we must also support those companies which are suffering most from the current high energy prices.
i therefore welcome the fact that the commission has accepted the criticism, including that from parliament, and has revised its original draft guidelines on state aid for climate, environmental protection and energy.
more companies in more sectors, which are suffering greatly from the current high energy costs, can be relieved in the future.
climate action must remain affordable for everyone and be an opportunity, not a burden, for smes.
every company that succeeds in this transformation is good for the climate and creates jobs in our towns and cities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the oecd is telling us that we will lose one and a half points of economic growth in europe, one third of what is expected, because of the explosion in energy prices, inflation and the sanctions that have rightly been imposed on russia.
in transnistria there are not only arms depots, but also power stations that supply moldova with energy and the presence of 2 000 russian soldiers, plus 6 000 transnistrian troops.
we are happy about the commitment and the energy that a lot of people in the commission have actually put into making it a reality, and before i come to the very much needed criticism, i would like to give some credit to those people in the commission who have actually put effort into writing and preparing the reports.
finally, learning for environmental sustainability must be integrated into school curricula, including through citizenship education, to enable students to become active promoters of sustainable and inclusive societies.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic and the changes in the world of work require the european union to strengthen its vocational retraining instruments in order to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the ecological and digital transition.
europe is taking the risk of zero emissions, ignoring economic indicators and dramatic growth estimates.
this is a plan that starts from the wrong premise, namely that the current crisis coincides only with the conflict in ukraine, ignoring years of wrong policies on energy and climate.
and there is a very serious lack: the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of renewable energy sources.
from energy dependence on moscow to increased technological dependence on beijing.
the extraction, processing and transport of minerals and metals used extensively in solar panels for wind turbines depend on an adequate supply of diesel and other fossil products made, say, by those who produce energy using coal-fired capacity.
to write that energy saving is the fastest and cheapest way to lower your energy bills seems a bit trite to me, i would say on the verge of offensive; the commission did not have to tell us this.
the new repowereu package is no longer just an environmental choice, but sets out strategies and measures that must lead europe to regain its energy sovereignty.
the first: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one.
the second point concerns energy efficiency.
we are very pleased that the commission has proposed a higher target for reducing energy consumption.
but we must not only become independent of russian gas and oil: we need to disconnect from all gas and oil, no matter where it comes from, because all of it accelerates climate change.
that’s why we welcome repowereu, but without forgetting that the goal is to remove fossil fuels from our energy mix as quickly as possible and at the same time create 100% clean generation model that is local and distributed.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it has taken only a few weeks to destroy the lives of too many people in ukraine, but also to destroy your green utopia, which in recent years has given priority to reducing co2 emissions rather than to the energy independence of the european union, with its consequences for peace in europe.
president von der leyen, in order to justify the inevitable use of gas, nuclear energy and coal, announced with great emphasis that she wanted to cover our cities with photovoltaic panels.
china, the world champion of co2 emissions, environmental destruction, suppression of freedoms, ethnic and political violence, is a master beyond the reach of even vladimir putin's russia.
labour, infrastructure, transport, energy costs and technical assistance: these are just some of the things we need to live and create development in our land.
if we add to this the effects of the war in ukraine, with the significant increase in fuel and energy prices, the situation is likely to become unsustainable for activities such as agriculture, fisheries, handicrafts and trade.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 60 years of the cap, whose aim should be to support agriculture and farmers by providing healthy, high-quality food, food that is sustainable for the environment, food that creates wealth and jobs and food that combats climate change.
some people are trying to take advantage of the war to return to practices which are disastrous from an environmental point of view - i am talking about pesticides and not only - and which would harm farmers and consumers, that is, all european citizens.
the prospect you are giving us is one of new european taxes, of a switch to electric cars that will put entire supply chains out of business, of new businesses that will be brought to their knees by new taxes linked to energy efficiency that will affect both companies and citizens, of new conditions and new obligations that entrepreneurs will not be able to support.
in the face of your energy failures, you respond with further misguided strategies, which risk creating enormous economic and social damage.
the european union contributes about 8-9% of global co2 emissions but you behave as if europe had a much higher share.
and all this while energy and commodity surcharges are sinking companies.
of course, the environment must be protected and the ecological transition must be supported, but we cannot afford to destroy the business fabric in this endeavour.
we also look at the social climate fund, which is being touted by the european commission as the panacea for all ills.
it is good to have a transition fund, but it will only start in 2025 and with the current energy cost, businesses and households risk not reaching it by 2025. not to mention the benefit we'll be doing to our competitors like china, ready to increase emissions while we decide to hurt ourselves.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president, the social climate fund will provide important support to vulnerable households and micro-enterprises, already affected by the pandemic and now even more affected by rising inflation and high utility bills.
as the five star movement we are pleased that this regulation recognises the 110% energy efficiency bonus as good european practice.
this is a measure strongly desired by the movement i represent, which is enabling thousands of citizens and businesses in italy to face the energy transition with more confidence.
at the same time, however, we must recognise that the €72 billion foreseen for the fund until 2032 will not be enough to drive a green, sustainable and inclusive revolution.
the invasion of ukraine reminds us of the importance of energy self-sufficiency to be achieved through a new mix based on renewable sources, as well as the need to involve our entire society.
the social climate fund, together with this strengthened sure, can really enable us to achieve this extraordinary goal and really implement fit for 55.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, speaking of cbam, as the league for salvini premier we appreciate the noble attempt to counter the risk of carbon leakage to third countries.
there are problems with the emissions from cars and vans, because we are all in favour of the environment and the reduction of emissions, but we must also consider the technological, industrial and economic issues and above all the jobs.
everyone has accused me of being the usual italian ferrari defender, of course, but i want to remind you, firstly, that ferrari developed the energy recovery system that many hybrid cars are now using, and secondly, that it is spending a lot of money, including 500 million euros from the italian government, to create lightweight solid state fuel cell batteries, which is a sine qua non for having electric planes.
so from this point of view, we do something for the environment, but we try to be pragmatic.
this is also good for our europe, which will finally be free from dependence on oil-producing countries and will be able to rely on its own energy resources, such as solar, wind and all the renewable energies that are endless and clean.
this is why a european fund is urgently needed to mitigate the possible employment impact of this transition to sustainable mobility.
this is the right way to go: more electric cars, more bike lanes, more efficient public transport, less harmful emissions and fewer deaths from smog.
it also requires the rapid development in europe of a sustainable battery supply chain and a market for affordable new and second-hand electrified vehicles.
we therefore support low-emission mobility, provided that it is economically viable and that it provides for a credible commitment to reducing pollution, without, however, envisaging a definitive stop to the use of combustion-powered vehicles from 2035 onwards.
environmental sustainability and economic sustainability have to go hand in hand, or we'll end up in a green world full of failed businesses and unemployed workers.
the debate today, which has seen the increasingly surreal commissioner timmermans and many, too many colleagues in the lead, leads me to believe that everyone in this house is living on another planet, a planet where nobody knows that there has been a pandemic, a commodity crisis, the explosion in energy prices, a conflict.
the tragic side is that few have thought about the damage that this package will do to competitiveness and employment, by not implementing the proposals of those who instead, from the territories, are calling for a gradual path, which accompanies companies and workers towards the ecological transition.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at this dramatic moment it is really dangerous to sacrifice the european economies on the altar of the ecological utopia of the green revolution.
some of europe's biggest polluters, like germany, which alone is responsible for a quarter of the eu's greenhouse gas emissions, want to wipe out their guilt by imposing unrealistic climate targets on everyone, such as a ban on combustion cars, before technologies, infrastructure and citizens are ready for this momentous change.
producing only electric cars from 2035 is not going green or sustainable, but it means closing companies, creating unemployment and poverty.
europe, which contributes the least to the world's co2 emissions, is really prepared to switch from being enslaved by russian gas to being enslaved by chinese lithium batteries, and this for absurd reasons of principle?
the chinese regime is for human rights what greenhouse gases are to climate change.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a bitter coincidence that this resolution on human rights in xinjiang is being discussed on the very day that this parliament is voting to further increase europe's energy dependence on the chinese communist regime.
and even the defence of the environment cannot justify the hypocrisy that this parliament is going through, because it is the coal-fired power stations that are driving the production process in xinjiang, the ones that make china the largest emitter of co2 in the world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the conference on the future of europe was supposed to open a debate on the real causes of the crises affecting the union in order to make it sustainable, instead of proposing mechanisms to circumvent parliament, legitimising initiatives in the interests of some and to the detriment of others, since the most discussed amendment to the treaty is the overcoming of the unanimity vote in favour of qualified majority voting in the council, also in the field of foreign policy, common security, budget and taxation.
let's not waste this opportunity.
the escalation in commodity and energy prices is hitting households and eroding the margins of the industrial system, just when more investment in renewables is needed.
i hope that common sense and solidarity will prevail on this issue among the member states, and that we will avoid rationing which would affect our productive sector, slow down italy's economic growth and jeopardize the sustainability of the huge public debt which has been accumulated so far.
and we see a major increase in prices, especially in energy and raw materials.
overall, the rrf is supporting the green transition by allocating almost 40% of national plans to the climate and financing only measures that do no significant harm to the environment.
you have seen the proposal for which we want to use the power and the available loan capacity of the rrf, as well as additional funds, to swiftly and effectively strengthen europe’s open strategic autonomy, wean ourselves off russian fossil fuels, support renewables, and reduce energy consumption overall.
thirdly: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's energy policy is based on the principle of the european union's energy policy, which is based on the principle of the european union's energy policy.
i therefore hope that the rrf will be further implemented by repowereu, together with the redefinition of sustainable objectives and a streamlining of implementation procedures, so as to allow countries to reformulate their pnrrs to make them effectively achievable.
the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy efficiency and climate change objectives.
in that respect, the emphasis on energy independence is a very good thing.
the international energy agency, the imf and the world bank are unanimous in their conclusions: these price increases will continue for some time.
in my view, the blind increases in climate targets are counterproductive.
i find it a little worrying that certain groups in this parliament continue to lose themselves in a range of climate objectives.
i would therefore ask the commission to continue to emphasize energy independence and not to use the crisis to accelerate the green transition, with the result that prices will continue to rise.
madam president, the reality around us, from the russian aggression to the turbulence on the energy market, confirmed the genuine need for the recovery fund.
many of the decisions that we took during the negotiations, from the inception of the european instrument to avoid internal market fragmentation to fostering the renewables in the energy mix, were forward-looking, and the parliament largely contributed to it.
it’s an opportunity to drastically accelerate our energy transition and increase europe’s energy independence.
this is one of the most serious infestations of recent decades and the causes are mainly to be found in desertification linked to land abandonment and climate change.
this is an anomalous phase in the history of the energy market and it brings out clearly all the limits of the crusade against gas which we have seen in this house for too long.
i welcome the fact that energy efficiency has become part of the security of gas supply policy and the filling target mechanism, even if we are still far away from a real policy that would prioritise energy efficiency, savings and renewables.
that’s why i say that this regulation and the next gas package are not completely aligned with the targets of the paris agreement or the green deal because there is still no decommissioning of gas infrastructures, and targets on energy efficiency and renewables are insufficient.
the good news is that this hypocrisy has an expiry date, which is the next plenary session in strasbourg when the opinion on the inclusion of gas in the source taxonomy for the energy transition will be voted.
a vote against reality, a vote against energy security and our freedom.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, president von der leyen has strongly praised superbonus 110, an italian measure defined by revolutionary europe as an ecological transition that creates development and jobs while protecting the environment.
italy signed agreements on the ecological transition at the g20 in december 2020 and this measure goes in that direction.
the equation is very simple: in a time of energy crisis and economic recession, we cannot afford to continue to pursue the green ideology at all costs.
the green transition must be managed with social and economic sustainability.
we must help our companies, which face global competitors without the same energy constraints, we must prevent the social cost of the transition from being at the expense of workers and families.
the environmental objectives are shared, of course, but they must be achieved by ensuring stable energy sources for the member states.
protecting the environment also means listening to and preserving households and businesses, helping them to make the right transition to renewable energy.
we must keep nuclear power, otherwise it will be impossible for the cost of energy to go up.
the european commission says that in 2030, 30% of the energy needed in the european union will be produced by gas and nuclear, plus 4% by solid fuels.
the energy will increase in the commission's image by 10%.
i think it will increase the energy demand, it will increase much more.
without nuclear energy and without gas, this cannot be achieved.
even a 55 percent reduction in emissions cannot be achieved without using gas and nuclear energy.
the exclusion of nuclear energy investments from the european taxonomy is a climate-warming choice, since nuclear does not emit co2 into the air.
it is also hypocritical to exclude investment in extracting gas from european fields, because it forces us to buy it from the united states, algeria, qatar and russia, thus keeping the balance of global emissions unchanged, or even increasing them, since gas-fired power stations would replace coal-fired power stations, which emit three times as much co2 into the air.
we must therefore take exceptional and urgent measures to tackle the energy price problem which is destabilising our economy.
this is a dramatic situation for businesses and households, but one which is obviously convenient for some european governments, and which is the same contradiction that makes ukraine's application for membership of the european union official, but betrays the ukrainian government's request not to exclude gas and nuclear energy from the taxonomy of energy sources in the vote we are about to vote on.
the report calls on the eib to give priority, through its lending activities, to social, green and sustainable projects.
the text also calls on the eib to support the achievement of climate neutrality by 2050 in order to align its actions with the european green deal.
the emphasis on the eib's role as the eu's climate bank at a time when we are faced with skyrocketing energy costs and high energy bills seems almost out of place, considering that the eib's objectives should include fighting youth unemployment, poverty and social exclusion, which paradoxically seem to be left behind in favour of the energy transition.
i wish you success on focusing on the main priorities such as climate change, environment and innovation, skills, infrastructure, small and medium—sized enterprises, cohesion, of course, and development.
any interference in our political processes is unacceptable, particularly in the current geopolitical climate, and also in the run-up to the 2024 european parliament elections.
i would also like to remind this house that it was the current secretary of the democratic party, enrico letta, who was then president of the council, who signed all the major energy agreements between italy and russia, effectively linking our country to moscow for the supply of gas.
on the other hand, good policy, good policy, not ideological policy, does not pursue public opinion but, on the contrary, manages to act on structural problems and to criticize itself, particularly on years of energy policies that have been proven wrong.
we cannot deny that the european rules on the functioning of the energy and gas markets have turned the price factor into a madhouse, forcing governments to go into debt to prevent companies from closing down, and all this without having any certainty about what will happen to the stability pact.
and above all, it must be clear that the objectives must be greater energy independence on the one hand and the rejection of austerity policies on the other.
at a time when the world is going through a meta-crisis and health, food, environmental and geopolitical crises are colliding, with all that this implies about the vulnerability of many populations, it is time to give all these countries and all these populations the means of food autonomy.
as regards the environment, the post-cotonou agreement must be seen in the context of the fight against global warming so that their territories do not become uninhabitable.
in lombardy alone, losses of €500 million are already being reported and, also because of the energy surges, companies in the sector will have greater burdens in managing harvests and producing fruit, which will inevitably be passed on to consumers.
finally, when europe finally decided to take action on climate, it set itself ideological and unrealistic objectives, which were finally called into question yesterday in this house, thanks also to the vote of the league.
we need exceptional support measures to combat drought in the worst affected areas, but above all we need to open up more to sustainable energy sources such as hydrogen and nuclear energy, in order to safeguard our strategic autonomy and not to contribute to the economic expansion of china, which is already the largest producer of greenhouse gases in the world.
climate change and the resulting drought of recent years is not just an italian problem, but involves other european countries and therefore needs to be solved by joint action by the union.
we need healthy forests that improve our well-being and help us achieve climate neutrality goals.
we must focus on the sustainable production of wood, including for construction.
and let's not make the mistake of keeping gas and nuclear in the taxonomy, and excluding biomass, which is a primary source of renewable energy if produced sustainably.
instead, we focus on building partnerships, sustainable development of local communities and farming methods.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, energy efficiency is crucial to reducing europe's dependence on unreliable suppliers such as russia.
however, to be effective, energy savings in homes, industry and energy production must be accompanied by realistic targets, especially when it comes to the upgrading and decarbonisation of public and private buildings.
if we really want to ensure that no one is left behind, we must look beyond the mere energy saving and turn to the pragmatic solutions that have been demonized for years by the green ideology of this house.
the subject of rising energy costs, high energy bills is the most frequently heard topic among citizens.
in italy the situation is clear: on the one hand, there are those who say no to everything, which endangers italy's energy security, and on the other hand, there are those of us in the league who want to take our country into the future and into efficiency, with new nuclear plants that are safe and with zero emissions.
in italy we have been witnessing waves of bad weather for some years now, which cause enormous damage: environmental damage with damaged trees, rivers and landscapes; economic damage, with entire crops destroyed and crops compromised, with businesses to be cleaned up, sometimes rebuilt in case of fires, and damage to citizens and families who have to bear the costs of these disasters.
i still remember the vaia storm that hit my region, veneto, in 2018, destroying forests, biodiversity and entire communities that, with difficulty but dignity, managed to rise up and rebuild.
climate change requires that mitigation and adaptation be the guiding principle of the european union's future policies, policies that must be tailored to nature and man, because it is not with fanatical environmental ideology that problems are tackled and solved.
we are in favour of working towards a steady but gradual increase in renewable sources, but we must admit that these are intermittent and non-programmable sources and that the capacity for investment in europe has been brought to its knees by what has happened over the last two and a half years.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the review of the renewable energy directive puts us in a very different geopolitical context from that of a year ago.
the increase in energy from renewable sources is an objective to be achieved as soon as possible, provided that it is combined with the objective of energy independence; provided that we do not trade dependence on russia for dependence on china; i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that is why i am not going to be voting for the report.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the eu's response to rising energy prices in europe (2022/2830 ((rsp)).
the dramatic rise in energy prices is directly affecting both european households and companies, and is threatening the whole eu economy.
this current energy market situation is very tense and has further deteriorated after the indefinite suspension of nord stream 1. gas prices are now out of control.
because of the rising cost of input fuels, benchmark electricity prices in europe have also surged by almost 300% in 2022. the current level of energy prices has pushed the inflation in the eurozone to 9.1% in august.
furthermore, due to high energy prices, companies across europe, from big industrial groups to medium-sized enterprises, are struggling to cope with the situation, and some are already halting their productions.
last friday, the extraordinary energy council discussed concrete, tangible and immediate emergency solutions.
the emergency interventions should remain temporary, preserve the fundamentals of the internal energy market and cross-border trade, ensure the eu’s security of supply, alleviate pressure on customers, and be consistent with the current efforts to reduce gas demand and the objectives of the european green deal whilst taking into account national specificities.
that is why the presidency decided to convene another extraordinary energy council meeting with the aim of adopting the necessary emergency measures at the end of september.
tensions are high across all energy markets, and the russian war against ukraine has a big role in it.
and in this way, russia has dropped the act and has made it absolutely clear: they are using energy as a weapon.
we are investing at a fast pace in home—grown renewable energies.
climate change also plays a part here.
more and more energy companies are looking at increased margin goals or are required to post higher collaterals in cash to underpin their operations.
this is not sustainable.
we are proposing an eu—wide limit to the remuneration for low—carbon technologies.
these are exceptional circumstances and we believe all energy sectors should contribute.
finally, there is need to address the liquidity problem arising in the financial markets for energy products.
we are working intensely on our repowereu goals and on bringing the energy platform to the next stage.
we kick—started the preparation of the reform of the electricity market for early next year, and tomorrow this parliament will have important votes on the renewable energy directive and the energy efficiency directive.
let’s fast-track our clean energy transformation.
although not perfect, the european energy market in normal times has provided europeans with accessible and affordable electricity and gas.
therefore, the epp welcomes the speedy presentation of the commission’s legislative proposals – about which more tomorrow, i understand – less than a week after the energy ministers mandated it to do so.
we clearly need a similar stability pact when it comes to energy.
let germany do whatever it takes to keep open all its domestic energy production, including nuclear.
we cannot tell companies that they have to reduce their activity, that this is the situation, energy is even less and more difficult to access, but at the same time, the profits of those who operate on the gas market from the ttf hub in amsterdam are secret.
this is a sign of the energy crisis and a strong signal of distrust in politics.
so what are we doing to solve what is becoming effectively the lehman brothers of energy?
it is not helped by the fact that the energy council on friday was a non-issue.
so we need more energy, we need more gas, we need to slow down on the ecological transition and, above all, we need the humility to admit that europe has been so wrong about energy policies.
let's be honest, fellas, the war in europe has exposed many of the weaknesses in our energy policy.
it only works well in a lab, in artificial conditions, but in the real, imperfect world, these mechanisms are completely unadapted to the situation of shortages and galloping prices, causing an energy crisis.
we need to rethink the electricity and energy market.
energy is a public good, a fundamental right, which does not belong on the trading table of the stock exchange.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the cost of energy for europeans has almost tripled in the last year.
then we should intervene by taxing the extra profits of fossil fuel corporations: but we need to use the proceeds for a new emergency fund, an energy recovery fund to benefit struggling households and small and medium-sized businesses.
above all, as the five star movement has been calling for for months now, we must find the courage to impose, without delay, a ceiling on the price of gas, to implement joint purchases and, once this crisis is over, we must consider the usefulness of an energy market such as that of amsterdam, which creates enormous profits for a few large multinationals and makes raw materials cost 10 or 20 times more than the ten-year contracts it should replace.
we have a decoupling of energy prices in eastern europe because the infrastructure is not connected to western europe.
madam president, madam commissioner, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, europeans, our businesses and our citizens are being hit hard by an unprecedented rise in energy prices.
yes also to the fixing of a price ceiling for producers of low-cost energy, nuclear energy and renewable energy.
we also expect the commission to come forward quickly with a sustainable solution, namely the decoupling of gas and electricity prices and charges.
i conclude, madam president, because the second immediate step is to turn this crisis into an opportunity not to repeat the mistakes of the past in order to guarantee europeans, consumers and businesses energy at fair prices.
intervention in the energy market and the extraordinary profits was something urgent for many months.
if, 50 years later, these are your proposals for how to deal with this crisis, then all that can be said is that you should not be warning of a cold winter, but that you should be providing energy for the people of europe.
this crisis, these energy prices, are entirely self-inflicted.
then comes the smart energy saving solution.
that's the approach in 2022. for years, energy policy has been on the wrong track: inefficient alternative energy producers, who simply cannot meet the demands we have today.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the escalation of energy prices in europe has certainly increased because of the russian invasion of ukraine, but it started earlier, in conjunction with the post-covid recovery, because of the financial speculation that the european energy market is chronically subject to.
we must produce more energy from renewable sources, but also from fossil fuels, for as long as necessary, because energy independence is the precondition for political independence.
but the crisis is not waiting for europe for long: we need a landmark investment to push clean energy sources, to free us from the violent blackmail of the cost of russian gas and beyond.
it is time for europe to act and show that it exists and to protect its citizens, its businesses and its environment, by taking concrete action to oppose this filth and to usher in a new era which, if it does not start today, may never start again.
but among the products which parliament believes are driving deforestation are leather, which is a waste product and therefore helps the circular economy which europe should absolutely help.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the ecological disaster that struck the oder this summer must make us realize that we no longer have time to wait for a gradual abandonment of bad practices in terms of pesticides or waste water management.
but it is not just the oder river disaster that we have to worry about: all the environmental emergencies, the acceleration in climate change, the now unacceptable use of poisons and the unconscious management of water are a wake-up call that none of us can pretend not to hear anymore.
this 12-year setback must push europe to take strong decisions not only on pesticides and the management of industrial waste disposal, in order to avoid new catastrophes that will have repercussions for years on biodiversity and agricultural production, but on the whole management of that immense asset without which life would not be possible, namely water.
rome's situation is alarming and is now worsening further with rising inflation and rising energy prices.
madam president, madam commissioner, mr minister, at the heart of the european union are the roma ghettos, which are slums on mountains of waste, without access to clean water, without roads, without fair access to health care, education, the labour market and social assistance.
in the midst of an unprecedented energy crisis, with households and businesses unable to pay their bills, the priority is to discuss roma and their living conditions.
instead of thinking about aid and subsidies to cope with expensive energy, we are here to discuss what aid and what tools to make available to the roma population, to better integrate them into our communities.
the next item is the debate on two oral questions on key objectives for the cites cop19 meeting in panama (2022/2681(rsp)):– the oral question to the council on key objectives for the cites cop19 by pascal canfin, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000038/2022 - b9-0023/2022); and– the oral question to the commission on key objectives for the cites cop19 by pascal canfin, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000039/2022 - b9-0024/2022).
in these times of climate and environmental crisis, we need to urgently step up the protection of the most endangered animals and plants.
i am very glad that my colleagues in the environment committee supported the proposal to write this ambitious resolution.
one would hope, with this commission's loudly trumpeted commitments to halting biodiversity loss, that there would be greater support for the range states when they are making a desperate bid to protect their native wildlife populations at the upcoming cites cop.
we recognise that this will throw a lifeline to the species, which is jeopardised not only by habitat loss and climate change, but also by the trade in its tusks and teeth for ivory.
i urge my colleagues to support the text as agreed by the environment committee.
i would like to hear from the presidency about what they will do to make sure that this cop, as well as those on climate and biodiversity, will deliver the success that we so desperately need to protect our planet.
we believe that cites is a key international convention for biodiversity conservation and a valuable instrument for our efforts to fight wildlife trafficking.
we strongly support the renewed commitment between the world organisation for animal health and the cites to work together on animal health and welfare issues worldwide to safeguard biodiversity and protect animals.
let me assure you that the presidency, together with the commission and the member states, is determined to take an active role to ensure that cites continues to be an effective tool in attaining its main objectives: the conservation and sustainable management of our natural resources.
we are therefore prepared to conduct the upcoming deliberations in a spirit of cooperation, mutual understanding and joint interests in the protection of species that are threatened by trade in order to maintain a diverse and healthy environment for our future generations.
– madam president, minister, honourable members, 2022 is a key year for reinforcing our commitment towards preserving biodiversity.
with the biodiversity cop 15 in december and the cites cop 19 a month before, we have a unique opportunity to shape global efforts to halt and reverse the continued destruction of nature.
at the same time, however, we must regulate the international wildlife trade effectively to ensure its sustainability, and to ensure it is consistent with the fight against species extinction.
so by making proposals for listing, we take responsibility for ensuring that trade is sustainable.
despite these efforts, wildlife trafficking, combined with climate change and environmental degradation, continues to put a serious strain on wildlife, as well as on people’s livelihoods and security.
it is also an illegal trade that is devastating to the delicate balance of the ecosystem.
the protection of our biodiversity is therefore absolutely necessary and in this area we must be able to defend the implementation of the cites convention in view of the next cop.
as a person that has worked a lot in africa for many years, i know the situation very well, and i work on the side of people defending biodiversity.
but, for example, in namibia, trophy hunting, which is legal trophy hunting, is almost 5% of the gross national product and is very important from a biodiversity protection and an economic point of view, because all the meat goes to tribes, part of the money goes to the tribes for schooling, in exchange of not poaching.
and so this system works; brings a positive economic effect, brings protection of biodiversity.
a climate of terror to which our institutions must respond by tightening diplomatic relations and exerting maximum pressure without being intimidated.
while we in central-eastern europe were screaming about the growing danger of russia’s imperial appetite, others in the eu were supporting russia with generous military and energy contracts.
we have to be clear and say: the origin of all the problems that our citizens are dealing with – high energy prices, food supply problems, and security threats – are caused by the actions of the russian regime.
the first is that we must not make isolated choices, especially in the energy field.
the climate emergency has shown its cruelest face in pakistan.
so we need international agreements that are clear and binding on waste reduction, but above all projects to collect and burn larger waste into the atmosphere.
so i would not want us to repeat the same mistake, the same misstep that we are already making in terms of energy, relying on rationing plans and the fit for 55 package.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome an approach to pandemic management that gradually moves from a state of emergency to a more sustainable one, one that can protect public health but at the same time keep society and the economy open and resilient.
we need an energy recovery fund to deal with rising energy prices and increasing energy poverty.
this, compounded by the pandemic and the energy crisis, speaks volumes about the need for a breakthrough.
we need immediate measures against energy prices, much bolder policies for the right to housing, uniform policies to make the guaranteed minimum income mandatory and stable, and a major european plan to support the homeless, who are often not even guaranteed access to the health system, and of course the right to education and study, so that the right to access to work is safeguarded without discrimination.
the farm to fork and biodiversity strategies for 2030 indicate a 50% reduction by 2030, but many states are lagging behind in welcoming the proposed regulation that sets constraints for member states.
italy has a national plan that expired in february 2019 and the draghi government seems not to have grasped the importance of the ecological transition, which also goes through a cultural revolution regarding crops and livestock.
eight months after the war began, we still have no common solutions between member countries and european citizens are faced with the dilemma of whether to pay their bills or to buy food, while companies are faced with whether to pay higher energy costs by raising prices or to stop production by laying off their employees.
president, ladies and gentlemen, in my home town of ghent, i see people every day who can no longer pay their energy bills or whose transport has become too expensive, and this while energy companies and other sectors are making record profits.
climate, energy supply and purchasing power are the three corners of that triangle.
instead of wasting our time now with semantic discussions about price ceilings which are inefficient anyway, it is urgent to develop a framework which provides long-term security and in which nuclear energy deserves a prominent place as a stable and sustainable source.
energy prices are no longer even the main determinant of inflation today.
the problem has become much broader than just energy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, throughout the european union, the high cost of energy is pushing millions of families below the poverty line, and since my country is a country of small and mediumsized enterprises, it is also seriously endangering three and a half million jobs in our country.
so the joint purchase of gas is what we have been calling for for some time, and even better the abandonment of the price index of the amsterdam market, where the majority of operators are no longer energy companies but speculators.
but what would really make a difference for businesses and households would be to create a new energy recovery fund, thereby collectively recovering capital from the market and transferring it to europeans in need.
we need to protect them while they're making deals with the energy companies.
we need to pool energy supplies, limit gas prices, separate gas prices from electricity, stop speculation in the energy market.
the surplus of energy companies this year will be 200 billion euros.
these are prophetic words in light of how much the rising energy prices are weighing on the low-income groups and i think that in a normal world, people would start to reflect on how harmful the eu's climate and energy policies have been because let's be honest the green deal is becoming a rich man's issue.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the cost of the energy bill is no longer sustainable for households and is dealing a death blow to manufacturing companies, which are still bleeding from the economic crisis triggered by covid-19.
there are many measures that the european union could have taken to contain the cost of energy: the commission has already made a number of proposals, including the gas price ceiling, the decoupling of energy prices, the tax on extra profits, joint purchases from third countries, but nothing has been done so far.
i would remind you that it was the supply of energy from coal that brought the first european nations together 70 years ago.
but when i listen to my colleagues today, i hear more of the same: more reckless spending, more european debt sharing, more reckless climate policy, more regulation, more government, more eu.
i believe that, in the energy field, there is still much to be done.
i think we welcome the commission's announcements, but the capacity to consolidate the european energy market remains unfulfilled.
mr president, mr commissioner, it has been eight months now since this energy crisis started.
what will you do to tackle this energy crisis?
that is an energy purchase platform that is completely different to what you are doing now.
and where is the energy assistance plan for households or companies, the same as we did with covid-19?
we are far from having a european internal energy market, ladies and gentlemen.
but if we want to get a handle on these problems, then we have to act together, which means we have to use all the resources that we have in the country to generate energy.
mr president, dear colleagues, dear commissioner, for months, we’ve been saying to people that the rising cost of energy was something limited and temporary.
but it’s not going to be sustainable in the long term, we know that.
and then we need an incisive intervention on the energy market – yes, the joint procurement.
but we need something more ambitious on the gas price, decoupling gas from energy prices.
now we have a similar challenge with the energy crisis.
we need fresh money coming from new own resources to provide on-the-spot responses to gas deprivation and energy prices.
the time has come for a fundamental reform that will put an end to austerity once and for all and promote green investment and the sustainable energy transition, which are also necessary to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves in this house.
at the same time, the only concrete measures so far introduced to contain high energy prices is just rationing to curb demand, which will lead to further downturn in economic dynamics.
the only danger facing this house today is that it will waste valuable time discussing expensive energy, expensive bills and wage-eating inflation.
first covid, now russia's war against ukraine and the worrying energy crisis with the concomitant rise in prices.
it is therefore brazen to ask member states for more resources to deal with the difficulties arising from a commission decision which does not intend to correct the course to bring the eu budget back on a sustainable footing.
we are intensifying our efforts to offer the western balkans full participation in our economic, energy and health plans and we are also seeking to improve the infrastructure connections that are possible.
the war has hit artists, cultural workers and the academic world hard, spreading a climate of fear, at the expense of artistic freedom, freedom of teaching and expression.
this crisis has demonstrated the need to set up - and i am particularly referring to the commission - a european response and recovery mechanism dedicated to cultural heritage and the cultural ecosystem.
in short, we must be sustainable in the full sense of the term.
the real problem is that we do not want to distinguish between the targeted, sustainable and cutting-edge trawling that our fishermen use and that which is practised by third countries, which are predators of the deep sea without reservations.
this is nothing but worrying and discouraging for european fishermen, who are distressed by continuous policies of reduction and prohibition, even where there is a commitment and a desire to be sustainable and above all to survive.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, since 2016 this parliament has been discussing the crucial importance of vulnerable marine areas for the environmental and economic balance of our seas and how best to preserve them, but after so many years, despite the steps already taken, we are still here discussing them rather than taking action.
and then there's an environmental reason, because by definition these are the most vulnerable marine areas, with ecosystems that take up to a hundred years to regenerate.
so let's stop arguing, let's defend our seas, let's preserve the future of our fishermen, because by defending the seas we help healthy and sustainable fishing and it is important to defend our fishermen, their children and the culture linked to fishing and the care of the sea.
now, on gas and energy, we really have the same challenge and we cannot take the luxury of time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i disagree with the council's conclusions, and in particular with the ascription of all responsibility for the energy crisis to russia alone, which began well before the war in ukraine began because of unsustainable european policies, which have demonized fossil and nuclear sources by investing everything in renewables, which are insufficient to meet our energy needs and by consolidating our dependence on foreign supplies, which is unchanged today.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
as draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, i would like to support this report by budg and econ in all its parts.
this will depress prices in the emissions trading.
the climate targets are still being met because the allowances are being maintained overall.
rapporteur for the opinion, committee on industry, research and energy.
mr president, mr vice-president, mr commissioner, for us, for the european parliament and what we have produced in the european parliament's committee responsible for energy, repowereu means an approach in support of the people: to have energy, to have energy that is cheap, that can be affordable, that every citizen can pay his bill, to have energy that can be at a predictable price for industry, for small and medium-sized enterprises, so that we can preserve jobs.
and every member state, according to what i have proposed and will put to the vote tomorrow, means that they have to develop their energy sources, have renewable energy that is put into practice tomorrow.
and the last thing is that for all those who have a problem paying their bills, they are obliged to come and present to the european commission what those concrete measures and support are so that all those who need support can get support in paying their energy bills this winter.
repowereu is about galloping energy bills and the question of whether europe can manage its energy supply autonomously.
we have therefore acted swiftly and purposefully in this energy crisis.
the strategy includes the aim of becoming independent from russian energy sources and repowereu also aims to help relieve people.
and thirdly, the main argument: everything described in repowereu use of renewable energy, use for rural areas is already possible in the foreground of rural areas today, but for people, for small businesses.
essentially, it’s focused on green and digital transitions and the rrf remains the best—suited instrument to address the energy challenges emerging from the current geopolitical context.
with a proposal to enable member states to tap into additional funding and introduce repowereu chapters into their recovery and resilience plans, we will leverage the strengths of the rrf framework to respond to russia’s mobilisation on energy markets.
now, more important than ever, it is vital to accelerate a green transition, increase the use of renewables and raise the energy efficiency of our building stock and industrial processes.
it will also be important for these new investments and reforms to take into account the eu’s collective energy security so that measures taken by one member state can reinforce those taken by others.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the energy union is essential for the european union and repowereu is very positive in this respect.
there will be no energy independence for the european union without cross-border projects and interconnections.
– mr president, the current energy crisis and the high inflation require urgent decisions.
tomorrow, the european parliament is called upon to vote on this regulation, which allows member states to amend their national recovery and resilience plans by including new reforms and investments in energy related projects financed by additional requests for grants and loans.
as the european parliament, our proposal is to ensure that projects aim at tackling energy poverty for households and smes can benefit from this funding.
the rrf, with the repowereu chapter, is an important instrument for member states to cope with the short-term effects of energy crises, safeguarding security of supply and accelerating the long-term transition towards a decarbonised energy system.
with this text we adapt the recovery funds to the energy crisis.
repowereu is not about improving energy supply in poland or storage in spain; repowereu is about ensuring that no household or business ever runs out of energy on european soil.
we got countries like spain to commit to very important reforms that had been pending for decades, for example, to make their pension system more sustainable or their labour market more efficient.
the european socialists now want to scrap these reforms; they are removing a phrase from the commission's proposal which explicitly prohibits using the energy crisis as an excuse to change the reforms which have been committed to.
ladies and gentlemen, we will do whatever it takes to overcome the energy crisis, but please, let's not create another crisis to pay for this one.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of energy from renewable sources.
recently it has become clear to everyone in our part of the world that energy security and energy independence are essential, strategically invaluable and necessary for our free way of life.
repowereu should help to reduce our energy dependence in the short term without taboos, including in the area of investments in oil and gas supply.
mr president, tackling the energy crisis requires drastic measures and repowereu is a positive step.
to have more energy independence, more renewable energy and to tackle energy poverty, we need more money.
mr president, tomorrow’s vote marks an important step ahead towards addressing some structural problems which are emerging in the current energy crisis by means of investments for new infrastructure, for example, for renewable energy production and for overcoming energy supply distortion.
however, we asked – and we will keep asking – for more resources, because the challenges of the current energy crisis are much bigger than the resources that are finally allocated.
let’s face it, we all know what is at stake: the competitiveness of our businesses; the fragility of our families and households; energy poverty.
and not only resources, as to address the energy crisis we will need reforms in the energy market – temporary ones and structural ones.
that is at stake and that’s why it’s also so important to have a credible european investment plan that can bring us out of this current energy system into a new system.
and that’s also why we commend the commission proposal, because indeed, this enables us to invest in new energy infrastructure cross-border.
the european union's dependence on russia for energy supplies is a problem which must not be solved by panic football but by proper analysis.
the high energy prices resulting from liberalization and speculation, as well as the rejection of nuclear energy, make our dependence on russia unbearable.
the eu is exploiting this energy crisis, which it has itself caused, to expand its political power in an unprecedented way.
mr president the current global political situation has clearly indicated that europe needs to change its energy mix.
unfortunately, this makes it impossible to transform the energy situation in our central european region in particular and to achieve energy independence.
in this extremely difficult energy situation, stopping eu investment in oil would be another coup de grace, further weakening europe's own battered economy.
we need to get back to the original purpose of repowereu, so support the amendments on oil and nuclear energy in tomorrow's vote!
250 million tonnes of waste.
that is how much the commission wanted to increase emissions to bring in 20 billion euros.
250 million tons of increased emissions!
we are in the midst of an energy crisis as a result of our dependence on gas - a dependence on gas that is also exacerbating the climate crisis.
to let the climate pay 250 million tonnes is totally irresponsible.
so i'm very proud that as a negotiator, i was able to help to find a solution that not only stops the increase in emissions, but also ensures that we stop funding fossil fuel projects and tighten the options for continuing to fund gas and oil.
a year ago, energy production was not a priority for us in europe, unfortunately, nor was renewable energy production.
so welcome the possibility of amending national plans so that we can invest in energy production from fossil fuels such as gas for as long as it is necessary.
it was a tragic mistake to become dependent on energy imports from russia and china.
in addition to high energy prices, food prices are also a very important driver of inflation in the european union.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the war in ukraine and the energy crisis have had the effect of limiting the quantities of fertiliser available to farmers.
we had a situation like this in august, where a number of them, or a significant number of them, stopped production because because of the high energy costs, because they were not sure if the farmers would be able to buy fertilizer, so this kind of action is necessary.
the next item is the debate on the report by pascal durand, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2013/34/eu, directive 2004/109/ec, directive 2006/43/ec and regulation (eu) no 537/2014, as regards corporate sustainability reporting (com(2021)0189 – c9-0147/2021 – 2021/0104(cod)) (a9-0059/2022).
we are certain that the world in which we are currently operating is a changing and moving world, and europe wanted - this is an extremely important sovereignty issue - to be a law-maker on these extra-financial, environmental, social or human rights issues, that is to say, to be the originator of rules and texts, not to isolate itself, but to be able to discuss them on an equal footing and no longer simply be a debtor of texts that were imposed on us from outside.
you know - i say this every time, but we must never forget - that the european union is certainly the place on this planet where we have the strongest balance between the three pillars of sustainable development: environmental issues, social issues and economic issues.
it has also perfectly integrated the fact that the short-term, often cynical vision of a society in which the first and foremost objective is to produce at low cost, to relocate, to exploit people, nature and the environment, is now outdated.
there is so much to do around climate and biodiversity, and we need both finance and information to be successful, to change the scenarios which are so alarming.
this debate on the corporate sustainability reporting directive, in my view, represents a very important achievement in our collective efforts towards a more sustainable economy and society.
it will support and steer companies as they make the transition to more sustainable business models and a more sustainable economy.
the directive will strengthen the rules on the environmental and the social information that companies have to report.
for the first time – and this is how significant this debate and this directive is – we are putting sustainability reporting on an equal footing with financial reporting, and this is hugely significant, as other speakers have already alluded to.
we need accurate and reliable information to ensure that investments are being made towards a more sustainable future.
because greenwashing, if left unaddressed, could reduce investor confidence in sustainable investment products, not to mention public confidence in sustainable finance and in companies’ efforts to transition.
clear and consistent disclosure requirements, together with the new assurance requirement, will improve the reliability of sustainability information.
the final text of the directive provides a good basis for alignment with the proposed corporate sustainability due diligence directive, which is currently in trilogues.
eu standards must take account of global standards, including the standards currently being developed by the international sustainability standards board, the issb.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the new directive on corporate communication and sustainability is certainly an important step forward in improving the level of transparency on the behaviour of companies and also a lever to direct and improve their commitment.
this is essential for achieving the objectives we have set ourselves, for countering the effects of the climate crisis, for respecting human rights, life, dignity, community, the rule of law, good governance practices.
we are therefore facing a very ambitious project, which refers to a more sustainable, more humane and more just globalisation, and it is a great opportunity that we cannot afford to lose.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the globalisation of capitalism is promoting the violation of human rights and the degradation of the environment.
it is in an attempt to remedy this kind of abuse that the durand report, which we are debating, proposes to force large companies to publish information on the impact of their actions on human rights and the environment along their supply chain.
at a time of great economic turmoil due to rising energy costs and the critical issues in some supply chains, we are faced with the difficult task of finding a balance between the competitiveness of our businesses and the need to promote sustainable and environmentally friendly business behaviour.
third, a very high climate cost, needless to say: 3.6 million tons of co2 and football players playing football in stadiums that have to be continuously air-conditioned.
the energy transition requires a gradual approach and a careful analysis of the socioeconomic consequences.
the european union does not take the madness of environmental groups out on european businesses and citizens.
it underscores our commitment to sustainable eu public finance.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, with our proposals, with our opinion, which i am sure will be adopted, we have achieved some 15 billion euros in revenue without penalising citizens, contributing to the objective of combating climate change, helping to ensure fiscal justice and accelerating the objectives of the digital transition.
if we do not invest in security, in the energy union, in strengthening our military capacity, in health, in civil protection, in what are the chip acts, the semiconductors, in secure connectivity, if we do not have these investments, we will pay a huge price.
and in that sense, if we do not invest in these common projects, as the lack of the energy union shows, we will have and we will pay a very high price.
so one element in our intentions is about giving more space or allowing member states to have more gradual debt-adjustment trajectories if they are performing, growth enhancing and fiscal sustainability, supporting reforms and investments.
so those are the two elements, that’s the investments, which we want be supportive of growth and fiscal sustainability, and also responding to common european priorities and obviously also, of course, country-specific challenges.
so i ask you: in the effort to put together emergency food aid, can you tell us what changes the union is going to make to the aid system to improve it, since it was not sustainable even before the war?
all this hiding behind green, but china continues to pollute and its co2 emissions are one third of the world's.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a very important report today, because the libyan question is a geopolitical, energy and migration time bomb.
today, the energy crisis, which is a real test for the european union, calls for concrete and shared initiatives, but these take time to arrive, leaving room for divisions and selfishness, which are making us lose face internationally and undermining the cornerstones of the single market.
european companies pay up to seven times more for energy than their direct competitors in the usa and asia.
after months of endless discussions, summits, rooftop workshops on gas prices, on the energy recovery fund, on decoupling the energy market, on joint purchases for european storage, on taxing the extra profits of energy companies, well, after months of discussion nothing has been done.
the five star movement has two paths to follow: the commission has already proposed a real, not a fictitious, gas price cap, and massive investment in clean and renewable energy.
thanks to solar and wind, our farms, our families can pay less for energy.
we should ensure that markets incentivise the development and roll out of energy storage technologies and green hydrogen to provide the backup to the system currently provided by fossil fuels.
interconnectors like these across the eu will shield us from crises in the future and make renewable energy more reliable and cheaper for consumers.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today's drama is the cost of energy and inflation.
the title of the agenda, madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, is 'a truly interconnected single energy market to contain the cost of electricity bills'.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate on the energy crisis is likely to be like all the debates that have been held so far and to have the same result as the previous ones: the nothing.
farmers and ranchers, the true guardians of the mountain ecosystem and biodiversity, feel abandoned and even mocked by those institutions that should support and protect them.
there are proposals that can be shared - i am thinking of the swiss proposal - that can find a sustainable meeting point between the needs of local populations, which, in my view, will always have priority, and the needs of nature and the conservation of biodiversity.
they are part of the ecosystem and their sustainable status must continue to be protected.
we also liked that the commission will develop european-level trajectories together with the member states for each of the digital objectives of the european union, and that the member states will in turn have to commit themselves to developing national strategic trajectories and roadmaps to achieve these objectives, which must be clear and sustainable.
in this context, european production of advanced and sustainable semiconductors should represent at least 20% of the value of world production by 2030. the european industry is in fact coping with the shortage of microchips and semiconductors due to the post-covid-19 financial crisis and only an increase in domestic production will allow our continent to keep pace with competitors such as the united states, india and china.
the last aspect to be considered is the digitisation of public services, with the aim of making public services fully accessible online to all citizens by 2030. everyone in the european union should benefit from a quality digital environment that offers easy-to-use, efficient and personalised services and tools with high standards of security and privacy.
and thanks to the very hard work of the co—legislators, we could go to sharm el—sheikh and explain very clearly that we are not just sticking to our commitments of reducing our emissions with at least 55% by 2030, but that we would overshoot that commitment already on the basis of the three pieces of legislation agreed between the co—legislators, between parliament and the council.
in the days leading up to the end of the cop, tensions were high because of attempts to step away from the commitments in glasgow, and also because of the proposal put on the table by g77 plus china on a fund for loss and damage, which would mirror earlier funds and which would not look at countries in terms of their role in emissions, but only whether in 1992 they were considered developing countries, yes or no.
i also know, we’re still faced with huge challenges in the time to come, but all in all, the results of the cop will allow us to move forward, will allow us to bring along the major emitters who, some of them, wanted to step back from the commitments, who are still in to the commitments, and will allow us also in the combination of the just energy transition plans to also take some of the major emitters in the global south with us in the right direction.
it’s about climate justice, something that my compatriot mary robinson has spoken so passionately about over the years.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the only outcome of cop27 was the creation of the 'loss and damage' fund, money that will be paid by the more developed countries to the developing countries, despite the latter's refusal to commit to reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
the european union is also a major player in the fight against climate change, and we are all aware of the fact that the united states is the world's largest producer of greenhouse gases.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, rural areas are an essential part of the european way of life and are fundamental to the economic, social and environmental functioning of our society.
this is why the european green deal must open up new opportunities, particularly in the transition to a low-carbon economy.
we value these areas so much that they are vital to our food production and self-sufficiency, and to the preservation of our natural resources, our landscapes and our biodiversity, as well as our cultural heritage.
our document pursues a wide range of objectives, including the creation of a single, safe and fully interoperable european rail system; improving sustainability and job creation.
ideology and bureaucracy are the first elements that must be counteracted to achieve an energy transition tailored to the territories.
the search for energy autonomy for the union is moving in the right direction, but this parliament does not always manage to legislate with a roadmap that is consistent with the possibilities and generation capacities of the member states.
sustainability must not only be environmental, but it must also extend to the social and economic side, because if companies close or relocate and if jobs are lost, then we have failed.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the amendments to the directive on the promotion of renewable energies proposed by the commission set even more unrealistic and unsustainable targets for the member states than those already provided for in the fit for 55 package of july 2021, requiring a 13% reduction in energy consumption by 2030, which can only be achieved through massive deindustrialization.
the measures to speed up the authorization of renewable energy production facilities will certainly benefit the companies that produce and sell solar panels, but it is simply illusory, indeed misleading, to think that they can make up for the energy deficit that currently afflicts europe, because of choices based solely on ideological reasons and geopolitical objectives that have nothing to do with, and are in conflict with, the interests of european industry and the european economy.
furthermore, the council welcomes the special focus that the european parliament report has on a number of elements and, in particular, the accessibility of culture, eu funding opportunities, the engagement of civil society, as well as the contribution of culture to social cohesion, sustainable development and the fight against climate change.
this plan addresses new priorities and challenges such as the current energy crisis.
to do this, we need a strong sector that can work as an ecosystem.
i am encouraged to see that among the priorities of the newly approved work plan for culture 2023-2026 stands out the will to strengthen the role of artists and professionals in the cultural world, working so that this dynamic ecosystem can grow even more.
the current energy and food crisis has a negative impact on the situation of children at risk of poverty and social exclusion, making it even more difficult to achieve the objectives of the european child guarantee.
when it comes to climate change a lot has changed and i really appreciate the work done by parliament in order to create a legislative frame that puts a much stronger responsibility on member states, on the different entities responsible for different part of essential infrastructure in order to risk assess, to mitigate risks, to report risks, and to make sure that, if something is happening, that it is being mitigated.
in this sense, the state aid rules and the facility that has been given so that companies can protect themselves against crisis situations, such as the covid-19 crisis and the energy crisis, have allowed more aid to be given.
as of today, i have sent a survey to member states in order to ask if they find that it is necessary to transform our crisis temporary framework to a temporary crisis and transition framework because we might need to help our businesses to bridge a situation where we can offer much more renewable energy at low, affordable prices, because that is basically what they are being offered in other parts of the world.
so to ask if we need rules that can accelerate the green transition, the establishment of more renewables, if we need clearer rules as to how to enable decarbonisation of businesses, which is absolutely essential for green transition and for big companies that are very carbon—intensive, and last but not least, what kind of bridging subsidies that can somehow mirror or sort of balance what businesses have been offered in other jurisdictions.
let me see if i can find them because i don’t know them by heart, because there are 11: energy, transport, banking, financial market, infrastructure, health, drinking water, wastewater, digital infrastructure, public administration, space and food.
commissioner, i wanted to ask you: do you think that investments from china or from another third country, if they meet environmental, social and quality standards, we could accept them, because we have a global economy and it is possible that those investments go to america or elsewhere and we become, let us say, in unequal competition?
don't you think that if we impose standards in product quality, environmental, social and so on, we might be able to keep some investments from china and other third countries?
we are in a situation where russia has weaponised first our energy market and then, basically, winter.
i really do see what you mean when you start your question by referring to the gas dependence that we had, that we more or less sort of sleepwalked into, because the european business model is, of course built on research, innovation, excellent people, highly skilled workers, high productivity, but also on cheap energy, cheap raw materials and cheap labour in the value chain or the supply chain.
and now all of that is changing because we cannot rely on cheap energy because we realise the security risks that come with it, because now they have materialised with the war in europe.
it’s really important that we diversify because it’s not sustainable that lithium is mined, for instance, in chile and then processed in china and then coming back to europe.
what we have been building in europe is a social market economy, which means that democratic bodies – national and in particular european – have set a legislative framework as to how things should work; what should be the environmental standards for us to breathe the air, for us to drink the water; how to make sure that when we fight climate change, that our green deal is now a growth strategy.
but i think we have prepared the ground while at the same time taking into consideration the concerns of european citizens when it comes to environmental issues, climate change and workers’ protection.
we have now the first calls of the european defence fund, but if you look at the precursor to that, which was a small fund, i think 600 million, it was actually possible for both big and large companies to participate that had a relationship with the defence industry ecosystem, but also for big and small member states to participate.
if there is a need to intervene because of the economic situation in the various member states, then i am interested in ensuring that people are paid a decent wage, that jobs are preserved, that environmental rights, human rights, etc.
and that public interest can be environmental sustainability in broader terms, of course, working conditions, the way that the entire operation is managed.
but we should be willing to pay that price because both we can make sure that we vouch for ourselves when it comes to the labour conditions, the environmental effects, the climate effect, but also we can say that we pay a security premium when we diversify the supply of raw materials.
the unprovoked russian aggression against ukraine has triggered a wave of negative political, economic and security consequences, both in the traditional sense and in the energy sense.
let's not waste this opportunity.
these are not just environmental barriers, but also barriers to employment, education and healthcare.
leaders are expected to discuss the energy crisis and its consequences on households and the economy and russia’s escalating war of aggression against ukraine.
the situation is serious in ukraine, where russia’s ongoing campaign of systematic missile strikes against civilian targets, including energy infrastructure and utilities, inflicts terrible suffering on the ukrainian people.
this includes stepping up our support for ukraine’s most urgent infrastructure needs, as well as working with the private sector to provide a sustainable supply of priority equipment to ukraine.
on energy and economy, the european council will review progress in the implementation of its october conclusions.
steep energy prices touch all european citizens and businesses, and the issue has been very high on the agenda of the czech presidency of the council.
they will discuss the impact of high energy prices and global developments on our industrial fabric and consider what should be done to maintain our global competitiveness and develop our technological leadership in the green transition whilst preserving the global level playing field.
leaders will also take stock of progress on the latest energy measures proposed by the commission and address the next steps.
we need to make sure we continue to deal with the most immediate aspects of the current energy crisis, but also prepare for next winter and develop together a resilient system for the coming years.
we must phase out our dependency on russian energy exports, accelerate the green transition and ensure security of supply, which will require stepping up investment in infrastructure and interconnections, innovation, renewable energy and energy efficiency projects.
europe was the first continent to set out a path towards climate neutrality.
because only when the most advanced economies compete for a net zero future will we reach our common goals: to limit global warming and to protect our children’s future.
but this new competition environment also calls for a rethink on our side as to how we support our industry’s green transition and strengthen its global leadership.
we’re saving energy.
we’re skimming off the super profits of energy-producing companies to take the money to support vulnerable households and vulnerable businesses.
cheap supplies of russian energy were part of the business model of many european industries.
the international energy agency has just reminded us that, in the absence of russian gas, europe now faces structurally higher fossil fuel import prices.
so the only sustainable way for our smes and our industries is the transition to renewable energy.
renewable energy is not only affordable, but it’s, of course, also home-grown and it creates good jobs here in europe.
and of course, the fourth topic is that we have to further accelerate our transition to green energy.
repowereu is the vehicle that supports smes and industries while they transition towards cheaper and cleaner energy.
but we also need to galvanise our strong european industrial power in the global fight against climate change.
my third point: we are working very closely with the biden administration on the most concerning aspects of the inflation reduction act, and we are discussing how to jointly strengthen our clean energy and industry basis.
it is the bridge for our clean tech industry to transform from today’s costly fossil fuel energy into clean energy and affordable energy – the renewables.
we need, therefore, this investment now – because these industries and our smes need the support now – until we have achieved an energy environment again that is affordable, that is clean and that is secure.
finally, on the energy side.
madam president, you know that i have insisted several times here as to why you used article 122 for doing the energy proposals.
i have referred on several occasions to the urgency of tackling the exorbitant prices on the energy market caused by putin's war.
ladies and gentlemen, as i said, if this parliament acted quickly with the covid-19 vaccines, are we not going to do so now to be able to deal with this energy crisis?
that is why, from the socialist and democratic group, we have proposed a european energy bond, identifying more than 100 billion euros in the european budget that can be used to help families urgently and immediately.
i hope that next year we will be able to use the same energy to tackle all the work ahead of us.
then, if support is needed, i would just take up what you have said about support to the citizens with high energy bills – support must be targeted, targeted to the companies who really need it, who really need public support to bridge the transition because, yes, transition is difficult and requires investment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i very much appreciated what you said, mr von der leyen, and i acknowledge the efforts made, and above all i agree with your statement that the only way to tackle the energy crisis is to accelerate the transition to renewable energy.
however, we cannot hide behind the fact that today in europe there are 95 million people at risk of poverty, also because of the energy crisis, and for them the increase in the price of gas does not mean lowering the thermostat, but choosing whether to eat or to warm up, and that is why i believe that our delay in fixing a price for the gas ceiling is really unjustifiable and the next european council must reach an agreement.
and just this morning, we managed to agree on repowereu, which means that we will be able to reduce our dependency on russian fossil fuels, accelerate the transition to the green economy; we will be able to improve our energy infrastructure and our energy efficiency.
high energy prices affect people and enterprises.
firstly, there are still many unresolved uncertainties about energy prices, and yesterday was the last day of the extraordinary energy council in brussels.
i would have liked to say to president von der leyen, before she left the chamber during the debate, that to accelerate the energy transition is to fail to realise that the problem is the totally unrealistic green deal roadmap.
(the house rose and accorded president zelenskyy a standing ovation)
i have to say, madam president, i think we have reached a very good agreement today on the accelerated authorisation procedures for renewable energy and i would ask that we now go back to committee under rule 59 (4) and then also start the interinstitutional negotiations.
soaring inflation and high energy prices have been a severe blow to household purchasing power and business costs.
historically high energy prices, high inflation rates, supply shortages, increased debt levels and rising borrowing costs are affecting business activity and eroding households’ purchasing power.
all the ministers welcomed the autumn package and the priorities set out therein, tackling the immediate difficulties that people and businesses are facing while pursuing effective labour market policies that drive the twin transition in a fair way and deliver on our climate objectives.
and so families and businesses face a global surge in food prices and energy prices.
inflation has soared in the past year, mainly in light of rising energy and commodity prices, a tendency that has been reflected in a more general increase in prices.
and businesses are also affected by rising energy costs, higher financing costs and lower consumer confidence.
and this is particularly relevant for energy intensive sectors.
the commission, starting with the energy, emphasised the need to address the impact of inflation on the more vulnerable citizens through targeted measures.
we would therefore recommend that these support measures that are taking a large part of national budgets be first targeted to the most vulnerable, second fiscally affordable – and the two things are connected, of course – and third they preserve the price signal to maintain incentives for reducing energy consumption as set out in our proposed euro area recommendation.
we also need to acknowledge that public finances can benefit from windfall profits from certain energy companies.
besides providing relief to the most vulnerable, we need to secure alternative sources of supply to reduce our energy demand, accelerated with the clean energy transition, because you know that energy is now the main driver of this increase of the cost of living and of inflation.
the additional resources from repowereu – and i congratulate for the agreement reached tonight – will incentivise member states to modify and amend their plan to accelerate the necessary investments and to address energy poverty.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, to deal with the cost of living crisis caused by the rising cost of energy, there is a simple solution: we have to do the opposite of what we've been doing.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, speculation on energy prices is literally bringing citizens and businesses to their knees, but unfortunately europe does not seem to realise this.
we cannot continue to ask our citizens, who have already been crippled by two years of the pandemic, to make sacrifices without offering them concrete solutions to contain the speculative bubble and, above all, prospects for overcoming the energy crisis.
so we need to take a different approach to the difficult and turbulent environment we live in today.