eu breeders have also developed breeds with a lower environmental impact, which is why the fight against climate change requires the dissemination of such genetics.
our solutions presented in this document are considered, balanced and take into account the animal welfare, environmental, food and social perspectives.
but strategic autonomy also won’t be possible if you continue to depend in some areas on single supply, as it is in the energy sector now.
only by increasing energy diversification can we achieve a real independent foreign policy.
we also have to free ourselves from big dependency on one big supplier in any areas of our life, including energy.
for that reason, i welcome the efforts of eu diversification of energy supply.
we cannot speak about solidarity with ukrainians or refugees if we are not implementing a full embargo on the import of energy resources from russia.
this environment action programme is an important tool for monitoring the green deal, for joint decision-making and for planning climate policy.
environmental objectives must not jeopardise the food supply and the continuity of economic viability of the rural area.
we must highlight the progress of european union agriculture in protecting the environment, the value already created by our farmers.
the social dimension of the transition to a more sustainable economy is of particular importance.
unfortunately, there are capitals in the eu who are opposing the introduction of those maximum sanctions, including an embargo on energy imports, without clear arguments and clear numbers.
the first front is energy.
this fight started when russia drastically increased its energy price in an attempt to punish moldova for its pro-european choice.
persistent organic pollutants, due to their exceptionally negative effects on the environment and human health, must be regulated accordingly and assessed on a regular basis.
it is not without reason that the stockholm convention was adopted to protect human health and the environment from the latter.
it is also worthwhile to look for and to invest in all possible ways to promote and support the science of advanced waste sorting and toxic removal technologies.
the proposal we are supporting will ensure better compatibility between the objectives of sustainable organic pollutants and the eu green deal.
therefore, i call again on moldova to accelerate its efforts to reduce its dependence on one energy supplier, encourage the country to diversify its energy sources and increase internal connection with the european energy network, as well as to accelerate its development of renewable energy.
by sending illegal migrants to the territory of the european union states, neither the belarusian regime nor the russian regime behind it is thinking about the environment or the conservation of species.
of course, even in wartime we must not forget the environment, but we cannot forget that illegal migration through belarus is an instrument of hybrid warfare, so security is the first priority, and it is possible, unless we consider additional funding, to reduce the burden on those eu member states that directly border belarus.
moldova has to increase its connectivity with the rest of europe, to look for the new supply routes, and to put more attention on alternative energy resources.
here colleagues said: the market, climate change are very important (countries in the region could be our partners), but equally important are social, human rights, politics, trade, science and youth.
if new science-based technologies, such as genomic technologies, such as gene editing, could provide many opportunities, for example, to enable plants to be grown that are resistant to disease, environmental conditions, climate change and the impact of pests.
mr president, first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleagues on the agreements and compromises that have enabled us to combat climate change and preserve the economic viability of rural areas.
climate change is a huge, vital problem that needs to be addressed.
they are the first to feel the effects of climate change.
but fighting climate change for the well-being of our citizens.
achieving the objectives set requires effective policy implementation and targeted investments in rural areas to support and promote the transition to a more climate- and environmentally friendly economy.
agriculture and forestry are part of the solution to modern climate and environmental problems, but they are not the scapegoats.
agricultural activities are and must remain an integral part of our environment.
we must support small and medium-sized farmers, young farmers, sustainable forestry and the strict application of import and trade standards.
the fight against climate change cannot be allowed to exacerbate these inequalities.
give our farmers a level playing field, a fair, equitable opportunity to work together to make better climate and environmentally friendly solutions.
the report is concentrating on the new security environment created by the russian aggression and our support to ukraine.
we must take into account the european citizens' wish to have a stronger european union, not by increasing democracy but by strengthening the political platform in the areas of energy security and, in particular, health.
it is a vehicle that contributes to climate change objectives, addresses the energy situation and promotes health, and is therefore all positive.
i don't think i'll repeat all the good things about cycling, about it being healthier for people, better for nature, cleaner for the environment, but i want to highlight the possibility of more contact, especially for young people, europeans, going to each other and creating some kind of gatherings.
but you also need to make sure that the work environment is such that you can arrive on your bicycle and continue to work after you have cleaned up properly.
russia's brutal and irresponsible actions in ukraine will not help to control climate change.
while climate change is a global problem and a responsibility for all, we cannot forget first and foremost our citizens, our businesses and the burdens they bear.
cohesion financial mechanisms already provide a number of ways in which, for example, the existing three billion trees initiative will certainly contribute to climate change mitigation and human health.
we did not allow the pandemic to kill our economies, and we shall not allow putin’s energy crisis to kill our economies again.
but with short-term measures, we should also need to avoid killing energy market of european union because there are a lot of examples.
i support your proposals, mr president, mr commissioner, mr minister, on the management of the energy crisis, on the joint efforts of the european union to limit surpluses, to set gas prices and to improve infrastructure.
i think we need another instrument, namely recovery and support for our citizens, especially those who need it most because of the rising energy prices.
it is in this new european bauhaus project that we should see the diversity of different traditions, different peoples and european requirements for minimum standards, so that we can create a new, healthier environment and a spiritual influence for our new generation.
mr president, mr commissioner, in fact, each new environmental disaster means that we have not learned from the previous ones.
because this is not a disaster for the member states, it is a disaster for the health of europe's people and for the environment, and we should avoid it.
i therefore welcome the report and i hope that our efforts will lead to the right taxation and to a more socially just environment.
and the root of all of this ethnic tension is poverty, climate change, and the influence of outside forces, like wagner's private soldiers, in that region.
climate change and military conflicts are the main obstacles to its implementation.
we're in the middle of a russian-led energy war.
only by acting in solidarity can we break our dependence on putin's energy blackmail and stop nationalism and populism in europe.
we must therefore join forces to make a decision, not only in the member states but also at european level, to integrate people with mental disabilities more fully into our daily lives, to remove the stigmas that still exist for them, and even the environment that exists in our daily lives should also be adapted to people with mental disabilities, so that they can better orient themselves and be more involved in our common work, so that they can feel like full citizens of the european union.
madam president, dear colleagues, i hope that the council and commission will find proper solutions for this energy crisis and also will understand what kind of our mistakes and dependencies in the past led to it.
thank you, mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, i actually agree with the statement that we have to overcome the war in ukraine that putin's russia has caused and the consequences that ukrainians are suffering, losing their lives, and europeans are suffering from the increase in energy and food prices.
and minimum wages, and price controls, and compensation for heating, and global warming, so that european citizens really feel supported by the european union and help ukraine to continue to fight for our european values.
the granting of candidate status to ukraine and moldova was a positive step, a clearer perspective needs to be provided to sakharov, and above all, the pace is lacking in giving them access to the single market, not just political but also in providing effective financial support through the ipa instrument, offering economic and investment plans based on digital and sustainable transition, innovation.
indeed, sustainable mobility is crucial to safeguarding mobility itself in the european union and to safeguarding our natural environment without polluting it.
i want to really emphasize that environmental aspect, safety and modernity, digitization, that was also mentioned here.
another very important aspect is our fight against climate change.
the eu should diversify its energy sources.