only a strong and united eu can be a geopolitical actor for peace, human security, sustainable development, and lead by example globally.
i agree with you that we need to keep working on fighting the covid pandemic, on the climate, to ensure that democratic principles continue to guide developments and on the use of new disruptive technologies; that we need to continue working to ensure safe and orderly migration, working and investing in partnerships with countries of origin and transit; that we have on energy to work with others on the diversification of routes and sources of supply, especially in these times, and that we need to help our partners to develop renewable forms of energy, especially in oil and gas producing countries, and especially also in countries that don’t have these natural resources.
we cannot go jumping from one crisis to another, from the coup d’état de la semaine to the crisis of the following month, but taking energy, climate diplomacy, technological diplomacy, migration as already common themes together with the cyber—diplomacy and migration diplomacy.
it is not just the geographical approach, but this kind of transversal approach, because the world of tomorrow is being framed by intended events, and mainly these intended events are related with crisis, but unintended events, which are not in our capacity to avoid – which is the climate transformation – and a third one, which is technological transformation, which is intended certainly, because it has something coming from the humankind mind and spirit, but it is going to change completely the political landscape.
the geopolitical landscape will be completely changed by these two factors – climate and technology, and these are not related with the crisis of the week, but to this deep transformation of our world.
recent international developments, multidimensional challenges and the rapidly changing geopolitical environment have accelerated existing trends affecting key aspects of the cfsp and the csdp, exposed the eu's vulnerability to external events and pressures and highlighted the need for stronger, more ambitious, credible, strategic and unified eu action on the global stage.
access to vaccination has been determined by the income of each country; more gender-based violence (one in three women worldwide have been subjected to physical violence); more repression; more harassment; more imprisonment; and more killings of human rights defenders, environmental defenders, journalists; more shrinking of the space for civil society; and more shrinking of the democratic quality.
last year, the european union took again the lead in human rights fora to address the most pressing human rights situation in belarus, myanmar, in afghanistan, in ethiopia, with respect to climate change, presenting the creation of a new special rapporteur on climate change and human rights.
or just their new loan 2022, this year, with viktor orbán and an unknown hungarian bank - by the way viktor orbán, who wanted to sell hungary's energy independence to rosatom and thus to putin just a few days before the war began.
many of you call today for clear political will, and i couldn’t agree more that it’s high time to prove our political will – our political will to properly implement european legislation that is in place to make our nature more resilient and slow down climate change, but also political will to further step up efforts and show more ambition.
because what the extreme weather events over the last year showed is that climate change and loss of biodiversity are progressing faster and faster.
but hopefully not too late if we now urgently speed up and step up, better prepare for and address the climate crisis – and let us be clear, every single region in europe will be affected by the impacts of climate change and biodiversity loss, even those which so far thought they were more or less safe.
our greener cap, our biodiversity strategy, our ‘farm to fork’ strategy, they are our straightjacket for our farmers.
they are our plan to make them more resilient – more resilient against biodiversity loss, against climate change, including of course natural disasters and their consequences that they are already facing.
this is also what we will discuss with the czech presidency at the next environment council, when we will prepare our two key international meetings this year: cop27 for climate and cop15 on biodiversity.
these smart solutions help mitigate climate change at the same time as reversing biodiversity loss.
climate adaptation policy is already mainstreamed in a number of areas.
our legal deadline is to get ahead of climate change, and for this we need to act on science more than ever.
– mr president, honourable members, commissioner, thank you very much for this enriching debate, which once again highlights the severity of the climate crisis, the complexity of this challenge and the urgent need to ensure the eu delivers on its climate commitments enshrined in the european climate law.
it has been said a number of times, this summer has been unprecedented in terms of the numbers of catastrophic weather and climate events affecting wide areas of europe.
this debate, as indeed the numerous parts of the fit for 55 package, illustrates the multifaceted nature of climate change and of the action needed to address it.
climate, energy, economic crises all have an impact on people, small businesses and farmers.
water, gas, energy bills are all the same, but people's incomes are different.
i'm glad we're discussing this important topic because climate change is a threat to life on planet earth.
the effects of climate change are already being felt today, they are here, they are not coming in the future.
but we still mostly look at climate change from a mitigation perspective, not an adaptation perspective.
the fact is that a certain part of the civil activist scene is reacting negatively to the term climate change adaptation because they see it as throwing a spear into the thorns, but we need to significantly strengthen the resilience of our societies to the already present consequences of climate change, as well as those that are yet to come, and this implies a far greater focus and funding of climate change adaptation projects.
i would like to highlight agro-food as a great combination of protecting biodiversity on the one hand, and protecting agricultural areas, but also settlements from flooding, with positive mitigation action on the other.
the environmental problems we face are an expression of the predatory action of capitalism.
due to climate change, an unprecedented drought this summer has affected agriculture in flanders and europe.
along with the continuing threat of war and suffocating energy prices, water scarcity is having a major impact not only on the availability of food but also, in the future, on its affordability.
i therefore think it is right and necessary that the european parliament in its resolution calls on the european commission, in cooperation with the member states, to increase its support for innovative projects aimed at collecting and storing rainwater or purifying and reusing industrial waste water for use in periods of drought.
at present, we are seeing a patchwork of individual projects in the member states, but only with a strong european crossborder framework will we be able to build the necessary infrastructure at european level to combat drought and water scarcity in a sustainable and credible way in the future.
now it is time to respond, to stand up to the values and for the values that give europe its sustainable advantage.
the exceptional uncertainty and inflation in the energy markets threaten to plunge europe into recession.
the record summer drought and natural disasters are indications of the progress of climate change.
unity is needed now more than ever, with russia using energy as a weapon against europe.
the blackmailing of our societies through energy supplies is a way of undermining european support for ukraine and of breaking our unity.
while russia uses energy as a blackmailing tool, it is short-sighted.
the current energy crisis is only accelerating europe's move away from russian fossil fuels.
we must ensure the availability of energy throughout europe and be prepared to take exceptional measures to reduce the price of energy.
the crises of recent years, the pandemic, war and now the energy crisis have shown that the need for solidarity and unity can be met in turn by each member state.
energy availability and price will be the most important issues for us in the coming months and years.
in the short term, we must find all the means to secure energy supplies and to reduce energy prices.
in the medium and long term, the only way out of the energy crisis is to invest heavily in renewable and zero-emission energy production, common european transmission networks and storage technologies.
energy investment is also essential to respond to the climate crisis.
now, at the very least, we must make the leap to a more climate-resilient economy.
the war and the crisis in the energy markets are putting severe pressure on the european economy.
our common rules of the game are not just about fiscal policy, but key tools such as the european semester must also be developed to take economic, social, employment and environmental issues more into account.
the need for a rules-based and responsible economic policy is clear, because only an economically strong and economically sustainable europe has the capacity to act independently and to help others, as is the case now in ukraine, when needed.
the war has shown the importance of europe's own defence production and our vulnerability in the energy sector.
we are now paying a heavy price together for our dependence on russian energy.
(applause) i would like to thank the war and the price of energy threaten to drive the world into a food crisis as well.
while we are now focusing on energy and other pressing issues, we must also be able to prevent future crises.
our societies will be fully digitized, and we cannot afford to make the same mistakes that we have made with energy.
now putin wants to sow division by cutting off our energy supply, hoping this will incite a great deal of social unrest that will cause distrust of our institutions.
the case must also be sustained in energy and food policy.
it is clear that the purpose of the russian aggressive war has also been to destabilize the energy market and thereby to break up our united front.
energy, security of supply and critical raw materials must be addressed if we are to contribute to increasing self-sufficiency and stability.
as decision-makers, we must ensure that european energy production is increased and that our electricity market is adapted in such a way that the price of gas does not skyrocket the electricity bills of citizens.
for us at renew europe, the promotion of renewable energy is at the heart of it.
biogas, forest-based energy, wind, nuclear, solar, hydropower, geothermal and all other sustainable means in use are needed to break europe's dependence on russian fossil energy.
i hope that this practical approach will be taken both in the decision-making of the european council and in the forthcoming energy votes in parliament.
it is particularly important now to also tap into sustainable biomass-based energy sources, which will help both in the midst of an acute energy crisis and in achieving the eu's ambitious renewable energy targets.
sustainable forest management plays a very important role in this equation, and it should not be forgotten.
i like also very much – and coming from you, it’s interesting –your insistence that, yes, fiscal rules are needed, but actually, they need to take into account the social and environmental dimensions, and that is also welcome.
also, a prime minister saying that we need to tackle energy speculation is good because there’s many people who still assert that speculation is good for the markets, you know, but we also know the downsides and the extraction possibilities that give these gifts to economic players.
finland often portrays itself as a leader of the green transition, and indeed, at the last climate conference, in glasgow, your country boasted about its ambition to be climate—neutral by 2035, 15 years ahead of the european union.
these bold plans turn out to be, actually, a false promise: the massive carbon sink provided by your country’s forests was supposed to be the cornerstone, the foundation of the plan.
i say ‘was’ because it turns out that in reality, the land sector, including forests, of course, now emits more carbon than was thought, so it’s no longer a carbon sink due to harmful industrial forestry practices disguised as sustainable forestry management.
but forests are not only vital to our climate strategy; when properly managed, they are also a haven of biodiversity.
there again, i cannot understand that your government has actively worked against every eu initiative to include the preservation of biodiversity in forestry legislation in agricultural policy.
prime minister marin, under your leadership, i hope and i believe that the finnish government will come to realise that it is in finland’s best interest to actually be – rather than claim to be – among the leaders of the green revolution, and that fiscal solidarity between member states is not a waste of money, but a sound investment in our common future.
citizens are primarily concerned about the rising cost of living and the disruption of energy supply.
energy policy reform proposals should be judged on the basis of their contribution to security of supply.
whether they achieve a reduction in the consumer price of energy and whether they take into account the specificities of the member states, their different dependence on gas.
the energy issues were very much overlooked in the speeches here, which is understandable, because we are in the third major crisis in a few years.
energy is our biggest challenge right now.
finland has been making the energy transition for a very long time.
we are not as dependent on russian fossil energy as many other member states are.
we have diversified our energy mix in time, we have invested in renewable energy, we also have nuclear power to rely on in this situation, so we have a very diversified energy mix.
we have made a mistake in relying on russian energy, which has been cheap in the past.
this has been a mistake on the part of europe, but we must not be complacent, but we must recognize it, we must look ahead, show solidarity with each other and seek solutions together: how can we together invest in renewable energy more quickly, how can we together build european transmission networks, how can we together support each other so that we can survive this coming autumn, next winter and the coming years.
clearly, the reason we have a problem is not because we invest in renewable energy or make the green transition.
we should have made this shift to a climate and environmental sustainable economy much, much earlier.
(applause) i would like to thank the then there were questions about finland's climate targets.
we're really ambitious in our goal of being carbon neutral by 2035. we also want to strengthen the diversity of our nature.
we want to ensure that environmental considerations are also taken into account in our policy, and this is also our message to the other european countries and to the rest of the world.
our economy is very much dependent on our forestry industry, which i believe is sustainable, and that is a matter of the utmost importance to our people.
but i do want to believe that it is possible to simultaneously make a strong progressive climate policy, protect natural diversity and build a strong economy, and i want to show that, and the finnish government wants to show by its own actions that by acting to combat climate change and for nature we can also succeed nationally.
this will make us serious about our combat not only against global deforestation, but also against biodiversity loss and our fight against climate change.
if your energy bill eats up a third of your salary, if the rent is weighing you down, and if you're not sure if you can still do your shopping at the end of the month, then it's done.
and in the current juncture, where inflation, spiralling energy and food prices and increasing living costs are affecting millions of households in europe, adequate minimum wages are more important than ever.
ensuring that workers in the union earn adequate minimum wages is essential to guaranteeing adequate working and living conditions, and to building fair, sustainable and inclusive economies and societies, as set out in principle 6 of the european pillar of social rights.
in a coordinated way: not yet the european army in the singular, but let us try to have the european armies, in the plural, increase their capacities by avoiding duplication and also avoiding gaps, because if each european state increases its military capacity without taking into account what the others are doing, the result will be a great waste of resources.
it would be a big waste of the money of european taxpayers.
and their problems have been made worse by climate change, by the pandemic, and by the aftermath of war.
but in climate change, to a large extent, we have more responsibility than they do.
more of the same: reducing consumption, finding alternative energy sources and suppliers, and developing renewable energies.
because, perhaps we need to adjust our heating if that is the price of maintaining and conquering our energy independence.
in this scenario of risks, we must not underestimate the link between foreign interference and our energy, food or financial autonomy: it is clear that there are certain regimes which for economic or energy reasons, for example, try to limit our principles and our democracy.
it is our responsibility to create the legal conditions necessary to ensure that their working environment is safe.