and then we remembered the connection between environment and cancer, knowing that sustainable development also protects us from this disease.
and as various studies show, younger people are more concerned about education and climate issues, while older people are more concerned about economic growth and employment issues.
today we have to ask ourselves openly whether we have been blind for too long to the various attempts of the kremlin to interfere in the elections of the member states of the european union, in the financing of political parties, in the economy, energy, banking, culture and education, and also in the information space, including allowing the kremlin to use freedom of speech as a cover for its disinformation and propaganda operations.
we should learn the lessons and transform the european semester into an instrument to achieve inclusive and sustainable growth, meet environmental and social objectives and improve the well-being of our citizens.
this means integrating the pertinent environmental and social indicators related to the paris agreement, the sdgs and the european pillar of social rights.
the commission should also make recommendations on how europe can work together to reduce the impact of energy price volatility on our economic development in the long term.
many journalists have thus left their homeland, forced to flee to the european union, hoping to continue working in a safe environment.
in the digital environment, kremlin propagandists, bots and trolls are attacking independent media outlets reporting on war crimes in ukraine, blocking their accounts and content.
we finally need to adopt a legal framework against strategic lawsuits, and the new digital environment regulation must also provide for the responsibility of platforms to protect journalists.
– mr president, commissioner, the european parliament’s culture and education committee is delighted to witness a real progress being made in order to strive for establishing a european education area by 2025. the three proposals for the council recommendations, namely to develop a european approach to micro—credentials, individual learning accounts, as well as learning for environmental sustainability, are a welcome start.
will there be adequate funding and support to embed sustainability in all processes and deliver a systemic change in education and training?
and finally, what are the commission, the council and the member states doing to develop within the european education area the knowledge, attitudes and skills needed to carry out ambitious plans to better protect europe’s rich cultural heritage from the impact of climate change and make greener choices for new cultural buildings?
i'm calling for a real thinking about complexity now, a thinking about how we can deal with these issues in a sustainable way.
i would like to start with an aspect which i think has been under-exposed in the debate: the regulation on climate change.
the climate regulation applies to all member states individually, and this regulation is in fact the only instrument we have to ensure that the sectors of agriculture, waste, transport, buildings then also achieve their objectives.
but if we assume that they will last an average of 15 years and we will be climate neutral by 2050, then 2035 will be the most urgent time to decide to exit.
the green deal is the path to european energy independence and the independence we so badly need now in the face of russian aggression.
climate and security policies should therefore complement each other, not conflict.
the target of reducing this waste by 55% by 2030 is very ambitious, and that is why we cannot leave any local green resources unused.
the zizimm regulation emphasises sustainable forestry, the use of wood to replace less climate-friendly materials like concrete, steel and so on.
and of course we have to think about additional money for the social climate fund to help the less protected europeans cover the costs of the green transition.
it caused a distinct polarity between european regions in economic development but, most notably, it showed how ineffective and uncompetitive the regional infrastructure and energy market integration is.
everyone in this house does hope that in 2024 the war in ukraine and the economic, social and energy crises are over.
at the same time, this house keeps moving forward with the plans to tear down the iconic european parliament spaak building in brussels, because it’s 30 years old and is not energy efficient enough.
with eur 1 billion, you can actually heat the spaak building for roughly one century, irrespective of the level of energy efficiency in this building.
you want to prevent it from importing gas from where it wants, while your stupid energy policy threatens to freeze the people of europe this winter.
we need an energy, a digital, a security union, a common position on the objective of civil protection.
we have export controls and a carbon border tax, so we have to make sure that foreign investment is not used to circumvent those export controls or to produce carbon leakage.
first of all, subsidies to energy prices should not undermine our main goal; our main goal is to provide security of supply to our households and the firms.
and they are also present in the difficulties of making ends meet and in the difficulties of paying for the energy costs or the food costs of our citizens.
we welcome the agreement on the repowereu plan and we welcome the social contributions on the energy sector, but we also see the member states responding with different measures, with little order, with little organisation, with almost each looking for particular solutions.
we risk jeopardising the single market and we need an instrument like sure to harmonise policies in the face of this energy crisis in the european union and to speed up the reform of the electricity market.
i am convinced that targeted aid to the poor is a better solution in terms of cost than tax cuts or even such comprehensive subsidies on the price of energy, especially fossil fuels.
so the best support instruments for all europeans are those that promote sustainability and reduce energy consumption, such as low-cost public transport tickets, support for families, the transition to green energy, already now and with the support of european funds.