it is vital to continue financing the recovery, address the social and employment related challenges resulting from the pandemic, and support our workers and our businesses in the move towards a more solidarity—based digital, greener and climate—neutral economy.
i welcome the presidency’s programme, but i wish to see more priorities driven by a reinforced commitment to promoting sustainable growth and policy actions that deliver for people and for our workers, and that build stronger european institutions based on solidarity and social progress.
people are demanding that we step up on their behalf and create a safe and healthier digital ecosystem.
i am very pleased that we are discussing today this legislative milestone towards a safer and more ethical digital environment with clear rules that protect the user.
in the area of public procurement, the ombudsman found serious legal gaps in the existing rules on the subject, such that they were inadequate to tackle conflicts of interest, as was shown, for example, in the investigation into the european commission's serious decision to award a contract to blackrock, which manages huge investments of large oil companies and banks, for the execution of a study on the integration of environmental, social and governance objectives of the union's banking rules, which will be subject to those same rules.
furthermore, with regard to the eu-mercosur trade agreement, the ombudsman, at the end of her inquiries, stated that the conclusion of the eu-mercosur trade agreement negotiations by the european commission before the sustainability impact assessment had been finalised was another serious instance of maladministration.
it has clearly emerged that the commission took that decision in the absence of appropriate analysis of the social, environmental and economic impacts of that agreement, in breach of its own guidelines on the matter.
the european commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the european union's policy on the environment.
the commission's understanding of the situation is enhanced by the fact that, in may 2020, it began to develop a strategic approach to meet the needs of the football team in the context of the current work environment.
in any case, the work was carried out in the framework of the european year of the environment, and the work was directed to the three main areas of research, to the environment and to the fundamental right.
the commission has contracted with blackrock to study sustainable finance and the financial implications of such a sector.
the commission should also consider the provisions under the clean air act, the air regulation, and the energy directive.
however, the issue of sustainability has become more relevant to the european union.
the commission has therefore decided to review the matter when it considers that the negotiations on the eu-mercosur agreement should be concluded before the assessment of the sustainability of the agreement is completed.
the ecosystem is suffering and, whilst we celebrate this positive step forward, we must keep in mind that coordinating travel will not necessarily translate into higher volumes on its own.
energy independence is also needed: we need a single energy market if we are to be truly free, otherwise we will always be subject to blackmail by someone.
we have been working together on energy security, on energy independence, and we will be working together to build a strong, democratic ukraine.
we have to increase renewables, the president said, have renewable hydrogen, but keep in mind that the amount of power in a country like italy in renewables, in a year, is less than half a billion cubic meters.
above all, do not give in to the pressure of those who want to water down climate targets with greenwashing operations, using the rhetoric of emergency.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment-related measures, including the measures to be taken by member states to reduce the impact of the measures taken on the environment.
and it is crucial for cohesion, for competitiveness and for sustainability.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european and world energy markets are clearly under great pressure from increased demand for the sake of economic recovery, the problem of insufficient storage and, of course, the russian invasion of ukraine.
the rise in energy prices we are witnessing has raised legitimate concerns in the european union, with particular emphasis on gas, which has jumped 170 percent in price in the past year.
it is clear that the european union must become a relevant player on the global energy scene if it is to have a greater impact on energy prices and prevent market manipulation.
the european green deal provides us with a unique opportunity to implement a strategic reform of the european energy market and to improve the energy security and resilience of the european union.
to do this, we need to diversify our energy supply, increase energy efficiency, complete the transition to clean energy and expand storage capacity, and of course, establish a common energy supply system.
in any case, europe needs to redefine its energy structure.
we are facing major challenges in the energy sector and we need a strong and unified european response.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the unprecedented crisis we’re facing on our eastern borders exacerbates the already difficult situation with energy prices being on the rise since 2021. such a scenario not only means higher electricity and gas bills for citizens and businesses, but also negative impacts on our value chains and higher prices even on very basic items, breads, pasta, biscuits, coffee to mention just a few.
we should not forget that security of supply is an essential pillar of our energy union.
the public accounts of european states already tested by the pandemic will have to cope with the cost of welcoming refugees (30 billion this year alone), increased military spending (40 billion), the explosion in energy bills and new subsidies for businesses.
the european commission's proposal for action to promote energy security is a step in the right direction, but it is not enough.
the limits on the price of energy cannot be set by individual states, the union should negotiate a single price on the market as for vaccines.
and we will need autonomy and solidarity to face challenges on defence, on energy transition, on the refugee crisis.
we need action to avoid that the recovery could completely derail and to avoid the increase of divergences among member states, because we know that also this crisis, especially on the refugee issues, but potentially also on the energy supply, is an external shock that could have asymmetrical consequences.
now, maybe, given the situation and given the increases in prices of energy and of food, we might again head for more difficulties on our labour markets.
the economic consequences of the geopolitical crisis, particularly in the energy sector, will only accelerate the agenda launched in recent months to strengthen our economic independence and ensure sustainable and resilient growth.
– the yearly debate around the european semester offers us the opportunity to reinforce our call to make economic growth and sustainability go hand in hand in the process of coordinating member states’ economic policies.
while european countries should have enough room for manoeuvre to address their specific challenges, we should not overlook the potential of public investments to contribute to a more sustainable and social europe, which strives for the wellbeing of its citizens.
this is the reason why i welcome the staunch commitment of my political group – the s&d – to include environmental and social aspects in the european semester.
we should remember that we can achieve high results if we pay heed to all the actors responsible for the sustainable economic growth of our union.
from workers and their rights to small and medium businesses that are an essential element of our social fabric and need to be further supported in the environmental and digital transition, also through a reduction of the administrative burden their suffer from, an inclusive growth will be possible only if we manage to foster a truly effective social dialogue.
we know that the issues of food security, climate change and the use of weapons of mass destruction are axes around which we can try to get china to commit to resolving this conflict, knowing, as i said, that there are very clear limits for china and for us.
last but not least, the use and re-use of data will also be able to have significant value in terms of creating new technologies, new business models and social innovation, which have the potential to provide answers to the major societal issues we face, such as climate change, public health, and can, however, drive the european union's trajectory towards digital sovereignty.
madam president, data is one of the most valuable commodities of our time, with wide-ranging applications from the environment to health, from transport to tourism.
now, we must continue to work to make the digital decade more inclusive, also to create a mind-blowing environment where data is used to address the world's most pressing challenges today.
data is crucial for economic growth, sustainable development and innovation in europe.
research and innovation are drivers for prosperity and economic and sustainable growth.
and, finally, how will the commission ensure reciprocity and a level playing field to accelerate sustainable and inclusive development and the transition to resilient knowledge—based societies and economies in low and middle income countries?
in addition, the commission will cooperate with these countries in multilateral partnerships to continue to tackle global challenges such as climate change, environmental degradation, resource depletion and infectious diseases together.
it requires a long-term vision that aims not only to achieve strategic autonomy, which is very much urgent, but is also based on the assumption that global societal challenges such as climate change and health emergencies have no borders.
every day we are creating mountains of waste - mountains of washing machines, computers, tumble dryers.
this is putting greater burdens on consumers and a greater burden on our environment due to the production of waste.
it is our responsibility to create a sustainable single market that provides for the right to repair.
the possibility of repair must be realistic and financially sustainable in order to allow consumers to use the products for a longer period.
climate can be addressed there, and how we can help to meet our green targets and green ambitions, how to make more efficient decisions based on high—quality inputs.
it is crucial that we see ai as a stepping stone towards inclusive, socially responsible and environmentally sustainable societies.
in the future, the eu will be an ecosystem of excellence, trust and purpose that delivers ai to take us to the future we want.
although artificial intelligence has created a number of opportunities, increased capital, productivity, innovation, sustainable development, created a number of new jobs, we should not ignore a number of difficulties.
over the last months and the year, our member states have also been hit by waves of largescale cyberattacks targeting their most critical sectors from healthcare to telecom operators, to public administrations, to wind energy companies and health.
so this is why there is no time to waste for us to increase our resilience.
we have witnessed destructive wiper attacks on hundreds of systems in the ukrainian government from it, energy, financial organisations, nuclear plants, telecommunications to broadcasting companies.
during the conflict, malicious cyberattacks have been a prominent component of russian cyber operations, strongly correlated and sometimes directly timed with kinetic military operations, targeting services and institutions which are crucial for civilians, whether it is to steal data from nuclear plants or to cause chaotic disinformation in the environment, disrupting citizens’ access to reliable information and critical life services, shaking confidence in the country’s leadership.
the commission also seeks your cooperation in making quick progress on other legislative proposals already on the table, such as on sustainable aviation fuel and on fuel, maritime alternative fuels, infrastructure, single european sky and intelligent transport systems.
the next item is the oral questions to the council and the commission on the creation of the european education area by 2025 microcredentials, individual learning accounts and learning for a sustainable environment (o-000012/2022 - b9-0014/22) (o-000011/2022 - b9-0013/22) (2022/2568 ((rsp)).
the proposals on learning for a sustainable environment and micro-certifications are expected to be adopted by the council in june.
finally, let me briefly mention the part of the european education area devoted to environmental sustainability.
to help mainstream the ecological transition and sustainability in education and training, the commission adopted a proposal for a council recommendation on learning for a sustainable environment in january this year.
the ecological transition can only take place if we succeed in changing the behaviour and skills of citizens.
and with knowledge and skills in environmental sustainability, we can better protect europe's rich cultural heritage from the effects of climate change and make greener choices for new cultural buildings.
for example, the new european bauhaus initiative and the work of the expert group on building the resilience of cultural heritage to climate change.
based on your remarks, it is clear that we all agree on the same goal: eliminating our dependence on russian energy.
some of you point to the need to strengthen energy infrastructure.
others argue that we need even higher targets for renewables and energy savings.
and i want to, however, underline that this is not necessarily true for solar energy.
the costs have decreased by 82% over the last decade, and solar energy is now one of the cheapest energy sources in the eu.
and the key words are renewables, energy saving and diversification of our supply routes.
the russian invasion of ukraine has made it clear that the european union must eliminate the union's energy dependence on russia.
the spanish socialist delegation to the european parliament welcomes the repowereu plan and the associated legislative proposals proposed by the commission to reduce europe's energy dependence on russia.
the measures are in the direction of the solutions proposed by the socialists; accelerating the deployment of indigenous renewable energies, improving the energy efficiency of the union, while diversifying our energy supplies and planning investments in energy infrastructure compatible with climate neutrality.
the socialists also call for more far-reaching measures to curb the rise in energy prices.
the socialists in parliament also support initiatives to provide greater security of energy supply to the union, especially in the event of abrupt cuts in gas supplies.
the russian attack on ukraine and the interruption of gas supplies to poland and bulgaria remind us of the need to diversify the eu's energy supply from a single supplier.
one of the main pillars of the plan (repowereu plan) is to make the eu less dependent on russian energy and diversify gas and oil suppliers.
in this context, the eastmed pipeline and the operation of new lng terminals in cyprus and greece will make a significant contribution to achieving this objective and to the eu's overall energy independence from russian sources.
i believe that, for the eu's energy security, the immediate acceleration of the completion of the pipeline feasibility study is needed, as is active support and further eu funding for the completion of such infrastructure.
energy represents one of the areas where it is more urgent to enhance our autonomy as we have not done enough to ensure our own security of supply, one of the pillars of the energy union.
as inflation is at its highest, the most vulnerable citizens cannot bear the cost of such a complex scenario since any disruption in the energy market has repercussions not only on electricity and gas bills, but also on crucial value chains, from food supply to mobility and travel.
everything is different - the economy, transport, energy, waste management, the logic of import and export and the additional costs they impose on everything, agriculture, water management, the blue economy - everything has to be thought of differently.
the islands are also on the front line, as we know, of the effects of climate change, and they have been hit the hardest by the covid-19 crisis.
firstly, the dedicated initiatives for islands under rural development, including the circular economy islands and the clean energy islands.
in particular, the commission has established a dedicated secretariat for islands to help them prepare for a clean energy transition.
the blue economy could be a game changer for islands, leading europe as we become the world’s first carbon—neutral continent.
continued flexibility on state aid, support for small businesses, enhanced connectivity for sustainable tourism; these are all concrete examples of how we can help our islands to avoid falling back into the digital core and, especially, the environmental core that we want to make.
this week we will be voting on the 'fit for 55' environmental package, a package with essential targets and ambitions but which still does not adequately take into account the realities facing our islands.
i'm all for having a clean environment, i'm all for going in that direction, but we have to be realistic.
firstly, many people have said that the package is not ambitious, and above all that the emissions trading system is not ambitious enough.
if we do the math, if we accept the emissions trading package, we'll reduce 1.5 billion tons of co2 by 2030, that's 1,500 million tons.
co2 emissions, which we are so passionately arguing about here, will be reduced by 60 million by 2030 if the commission's proposal is adopted.
mr president, many people are concerned about nuclear energy.
i would like to ask you to ensure that the ets and the modernisation fund and the innovation fund do not become nuclear energy funds, so that we can reassure our colleagues.
she needs support as she embarks on the path to climate neutrality.
our planet, our children and grandchildren need ambitious climate action.
mr president, of course climate change is having an impact on our environment and on our ecosystems, as has already been said.
it is not perfect, of course, but these measures will bring us the closest we can get to climate neutrality by 2050. what we have negotiated in the european social climate fund is not perfect but, over the last few months, i and other members in this parliament have done our best to ensure that the fund will work in the best way.
and of course, we talked about making the european green deal or the european climate law and the green plan a reality.
our key objective is to make europe the first climate-neutral continent.
our goal is to preserve mobility and industry while being in tune with our climate change.
at least let’s agree that what the international climate panel has written is extremely alarming.
at least let’s agree that whatever our difficulties may be, the climate crisis is not going to go away; it’s going to intensify.
of course there is a cost involved in introducing a price on carbon, but if you combine that with a climate social fund that will mitigate those costs for those most vulnerable or those who are hit most by this, then i think this is justified.
and then you need to ask yourselves: is then the climate social fund big enough to then really mitigate those costs?
this industrial revolution, combined with the climate crisis, is the biggest challenge humanity has ever faced.
yes, we are only responsible for 8% of global emissions, but the chinese are copying our ets systems.
and, like it was with the internal market, like it was with environmental legislation, like was every time we took a step higher on the levels of our protection, parts of industry would say, ‘this is the end of industry, this is the end of employment, so many million jobs will disappear’.
europe, our continent, with the legislative package "adaptation to objective 55", is showing the way towards more climate neutrality.
more concretely, we need to link climate justice and social justice.
in a context of a return to inflation throughout europe, we must protect the most vulnerable citizens from the rising cost of living and, in particular, from the rise in energy prices.
that is the ambition of the social climate fund.
it has already done so with the adoption of the general guideline on the carbon adjustment mechanism at borders last march, which will prevent the risk of deindustrialisation and inequality in international trade.
while enabling the environmental transition, we should - however - not forget that legislation for a cleaner europe must match with adequate ambition in terms of the economic, social and territorial cohesion.
our pledge to leave no one behind in the environmental transition is more real than ever.
and, under the digital services act, we have reached our purpose – the online environment is now set to become much more transparent and safer for users.
we created a digital constitution to protect and improve citizens' accessibility in the online environment and we laid the foundations for our businesses, especially our smes, to grow and compete in a conducive environment.
the three seas initiative is of particular relevance in the current volatile and uncertain geopolitical situation because of its strong focus on energy security and connectivity in europe.
allow me to develop a bit more on how we see the potential for cooperation among the three seas initiative’s partners in the key areas of energy and connectivity.
one of the priorities of the initiative is that of energy security, in particular the diversification of routes and sources of energy supply across the region.
by focusing on these aspects, the three seas initiative and its dedicated fund is directly addressing the priorities set by eu leaders – namely, the transition to alternative energy, the creation of sustainable and resilient energy infrastructure and the phasing—out of our dependence on russian gas and oil supplies.
the three seas initiative’s focus on connectivity is also related to the current geopolitical and economic environment.
it has exacerbated the existing trends of a tightening of energy and food markets, triggering increased price volatility and energy insecurity across the globe.
the three seas initiative is well aligned with the eu’s energy objective, and this political and economic cooperation can very usefully complement and give a substantial additional boost to the implementation of the repowereu plan.
in fact, repowereu is our response to the global energy market disruption caused by russia’s invasion of ukraine.
its key elements are to save fossil energy, replace it with renewables and diversify away from russian fossil fuels.
the organisation of energy infrastructure is key for european energy security, and in the three seas region the eu has provided strong support for energy, transport and digital infrastructure through its cohesion and infrastructure funds.
reaching the 2030 gigabit and 5g targets at the end of the digital decade is essential for sustainable digital economic growth.
the interconnection of national, transport, energy and digital networks and the integration of european networks is a strategic priority.
russia's aggression in ukraine has demonstrated that better interconnection of energy and transportation networks would reduce energy and even food insecurity.
sustainability must be the guiding principle of the future of construction.
it is about both reducing emissions and creating better habitats.
first of all: we need to build more in wood - sustainable, renewable - and reduce emissions dramatically.
improving energy efficiency must permeate all projects.
so my hope is that this initiative can lead the whole of europe towards more sustainable building where we can exchange good examples, like wooden houses, that reduce electricity costs for all of us.
it's really about how we live in our built environments, how we care not only about our architecture, but also about cultural policy in general, about tradition, but also about innovation, as well as how we grapple with the development of modern technologies, renewable energy, energy efficiency of buildings, inclusiveness, all of these are very good topics.
i see this as one of the conditions for the sustainability of the initiative, one of the conditions for an ambitious budgetary and programming framework in the next multiannual financial perspective.
the new european bauhaus comes to adapt housing to these changes by combining energy efficiency, beauty 'understood as comfort, as the adaptation of spaces to their uses', and, above all, social inclusion: focusing investment on the people who need it most, using public funds to improve the lives of those who need it most.
this report importantly ensures the mff’s compatibility with the parliament’s fit for 55 package, particularly the alignment of the mff with the parliament’s position on the social climate fund.
the social climate fund is essential to supporting and protecting vulnerable households, micro-enterprises and transport users as the emissions—trading system is expanded.
at a time of soaring inflation and energy costs, we need to be sure that climate policies are implemented in a way that protects vulnerable groups.
there is no doubt that we have a climate crisis, a geopolitical crisis, we have to support ukraine.
naturally, it is possible for carbon to be absorbed from the atmosphere and, therefore, the amount of carbon in the atmosphere is reduced.
for the sake of the eu, we must, in the future, improve and enlarge the european union so that carbon neutrality can be achieved.
the main aim of the straitéis foraoise an aontais is to achieve effective, efficient and sustainable development in the union.
it is lighter than the carbon dioxide in the atmosphere and less ionic than in storage.
high inflation, electricity and energy price rises, a climate catastrophe, increased food insecurity and a fast-emerging cost of living crisis.
and this is not only a war unleashed by russia against ukraine, this is also a war on our energy, it’s a war on our economy, it’s a war on our values.
they have invested heavily in renewable energy, in lng terminals, in interconnectors.
but we also see that russia keeps actively manipulating our energy market.
in addition the climate crisis is heavily weighing on our bills.
think of the workers in ceramics factories in central italy who have decided to move their shifts to early morning to benefit from lower energy prices.
the security of supply because the gas still has to come to the european union, the energy overall.
at the same time we also know that energy companies are facing severe problems with liquidity in electricity futures markets.
some of us remember the car-free weekends to save energy.
this was wrong, not just for the climate, but also for our public finances, and our independence as we know today.
it is financing new wind turbines and solar parks, high-speed trains and energy-saving renovations.
it has to be delivered because it’s necessary now as investment and, honourable members, the future of our children needs both that we invest in sustainability but also that we invest sustainably.
we need fiscal rules that allow for strategic investment, while safeguarding fiscal sustainability; rules that are fit for the challenges of this decade.
it’s do we have an enabling business environment?
countries near and far share an interest in working with us on the greatest challenges of this century, such as climate change and digitalisation.
and, on the other hand, in my constituency, i received a letter from a small bakery: after decades of baking bavarian bread, he wrote to me saying that he cannot survive with the high energy costs.
crisis times means now, leadership, and the epp supports the proposal of the commission presented today on support for ukraine but also to give an answer on the soaring energy prices.
if it is true that the winter will be hard, then we must use all our energy resources.
and on inflation – not only driven by energy, first, it is an ecb task that’s clear – i think we also can contribute.
speaking about democracies, i have to come back to the energy proposals.
as always, crises highlight our weaknesses, but they also show us where we need to make a difference: strengthening social policies, energy market reforms, taxation and economic governance reforms, and accelerating the green transition so that we do not regret having arrived too late.
we are late, but i am glad that at last there has been a reaction and that what the socialist and democratic group has been saying for a long time has been heard: we must put a cap on the price of gas and help families and businesses to pay the bill, and we can do that with a share of the extraordinary profits of the energy companies; everyone must shrug their shoulders because it is not fair that while some people are struggling to make ends meet, others are becoming millionaires at the expense of the suffering of families.
with skyrocketing energy and food prices, we must act.
and i welcome the commission president’s proposal to skim off windfall profits from energy companies, something that we as the greens/efa group have been calling for since the beginning of this crisis.
the only true way to end our energy dependency is, on the one hand, to use less energy and, on the other hand, to produce more renewable energy.
fossil fuels have been a driver for ecological disaster and for dangerous dependency.
now is the time to scale up investments in renewables, to put solar panels on every roof, insulate buildings, and make sure sun and wind carry us into a new era of sustainable and affordable european energy production.
and let’s make no mistake, commission president and colleagues, the climate crisis is probably the biggest political test for our generation.
all over europe, we experience the devastation the climate crisis is bringing and will bring to our continent and to the world.
it is time to act and to quickly build a brighter, cleaner future to capitalise on the enormous potential that the green transition brings in terms of sustainable economic development, well-paying and future-proofed jobs, cleaner air and a better quality of life for our citizens.
dear commission president and dear colleagues, yes, the state of the union is full of challenges stemming from the war in ukraine to the rule of law to the climate crisis.
work together towards new energy independence, a climate-neutral continent and, maybe most importantly, a european union that deserves and maintains the trust of our european citizens, founded on values, founded on solidarity.
we need europe and the commission to look pragmatically at the changed situation and, in a forward-looking way, to admit that there are different conditions and that therefore certain things are not only no longer feasible but have not helped to protect the climate or to achieve the industrial and socioeconomic transition that this continent desperately needs today.
it is necessary to be able to deal with two major issues, that of energy and that of interventions for households and businesses, in order to be able to sustain the crisis we are facing today.
and it is clear that in this context we need clear answers: the gas price ceiling is one of these, as is the decoupling of gas and energy prices.
we have just had a european council of energy ministers on 9 september, and they have given a very positive and clear signal.
well, the war is still going on, and the energy bills of the people of europe are skyrocketing.
meanwhile, russia has seen unprecedented revenues from rising energy prices.
europe is facing crisis and energy shortages.
we know that farmers are also coping with high prices for energy and for fertilisers.
but finally – and again, this goes for the whole energy crisis – there’s one simple truth that applies to both energy and fertilisers: the more we save, the less we pay.
in the last month, globally, but also across europe, each and every one of us felt more clearly than ever before the immense impact of the global climate crisis.
we need a resilient and sustainable agriculture that preserves biodiversity and, above all, the healthy, fertile soil.
the most urgent tasks are to address the various dimensions of the war on ukraine, bring genuine energy security, strengthen europe's defence capabilities, secure the strategic resilience of the eu economy, and ensure the resilience of our democratic institutions.
energy security and mitigating high energy prices is our most pressing task.
we are determined to work around the clock on these proposals and reach an agreement among the member states at the next meeting of energy ministers scheduled for 30 september.
secondly, more measures and quicker measures to support citizens in the european union, capping energy prices, including prices on imported russian gas, using existing funds for energy interconnectivity, for energy efficiency, for reducing dependency, and for investing in renewables.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing another serious crisis in europe which is having a serious impact on our households and our businesses, which are being squeezed by energy prices and inflation.
i have heard clear words from you today, president von der leyen, about the future of the union, about the challenges we face, about the measures needed now to tackle the crisis, starting with the reform of the entire energy market and new resources for households and businesses.
and on the energy front, let us waste no more time in putting a ceiling on the price of gas, the only measure capable of stopping this odious speculation in progress.
what will it mean for eu climate policy to be dependent on climate deniers?
it is necessary for the climate, for democracy and for a common future.
we demand a climate policy that listens to the scientists, not the climate deniers.
of course we have to invest in renewables and become independent of putin, but we also have to rebuild our energy market.
then we can't stand up for the climate.
we cannot then stand up for welfare, and we cannot stand up for what we need to build a sustainable europe.
we don't have time to waste.
this is the energy bill received by a small businessman in liguria for the month of august: eur 5 600 compared with eur 1 700 last year.
the recovery fund is the north star to follow in this energy crisis as well.
energy and food prices, inflation rising at a very fast rate, with the long-term negative consequences of the pandemic, increased unemployment and a decrease in the purchasing power of our families, increased material poverty and increased social inequality.
and as far as energy goes, you were actually on our side of the equation.
madam president, mrs von der leyen, what you have announced to us on the energy crisis is overdue, generalistic and inadequate, and at the same time very few people are making incredible, skyrocketing profits while many people are suffering: households, businesses and workers who are seeing their incomes squeezed by inflation.
we must also be aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on energy, research and technology.
i want to have a look at the topic of the energy crisis.
and i want to make very sure that there is no doubt about the fact in this house that it is putin who triggered this energy crisis.
then i heard from an mep of renew – rightly so – that the energy measures that we proposed yesterday and that i explained today have to be time—limited.
but if you look at the ‘one to two’ explicitly, the topic of energy is mentioned in ‘one to two’.
and this is a big task all of us have to tackle together before this mandate ends because it is urgent now to move forward with the completely changed energy markets.
madam president, europe is facing an energy crisis.
energy prices have risen dramatically, and the supply has become uncertain.
the commission president suggested in the debate that european families facing unpayable energy bills should send their bills to moscow to be paid by them.
one opportunity lies just ahead of you with the vote on renewables and on energy efficiency, and i hope we will do the right thing.
russia is not only at war with ukraine, but it has also launched a major energy war against the european union.
i welcome the european commission's proposed energy crisis mitigation measure and share the commission's view that the source of the high prices is in moscow.
our people are watching with great concern the record inflation, the rising food and energy prices.
we have heard today from the commission that it intends to present measures in the energy sector to reduce energy prices, and we welcome this.
ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a very difficult period, which calls for urgent decisions to stabilise the rise in food and basic commodity prices and to help our people and businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, by offsetting energy bills.
the rocketing energy prices are increasingly affecting the stability of our industry, with small businesses closing down all over europe, as is the ongoing inflation.
while the already spiralling energy prices and the covid-19 pandemic had their own negative effect, it should be acknowledged that europe’s dependence on russian gas has had a severe impact on the current crisis.
given all this, europe should learn from its mistakes and look towards diversifying its energy supplies while also investing in renewables, ensuring more energy autonomy, all this whilst taking into account the various specificities and realities of our regions and member states and ensuring security of supply.
– madam president, executive vice-president, today is a great day for consumers, a great day for our environment.
and all that results in a pile of 11 000 tonnes of e-waste that we are producing each year from discarded and unused chargers, and more than 2 billion is spent annually on standalone chargers alone.
and the simple solution each year will save thousands of tonnes of electronic waste, facilitate the reuse of old electronics, better consumer convenience, reduce unnecessary costs and also help to save millions of euros.
the single charger will also minimise the environmental impact of discarded and unused chargers, address the sustainability of electronic products and empower consumers to make better choices, more sustainable choices.
the single charger is a huge success that will benefit everyone: the environment, consumers and businesses alike.
of course we’ve been tossing a bit around in the situation that europe is in: war on our doorstep, an energy crisis that is deepening the worries of families – can we pay our bills?
– the cost of living crisis, the ongoing climate emergency.
and i think it’s a very important beginning of making everything digital sustainable in the broadest possible sense of it.
we will only fight climate change with the use of digital, but it only makes sense if everything digital becomes green as well.
but ultimately also, better quality for our environment, for our environmental sustainability with eleven thousand tons less e-waste generated by these extra chargers.
the ultimate punishment for exposing the corruption at the highest level of the maltese government: a government that carries responsibility for her murder by creating a favourable climate for anyone who wanted to eliminate her.
it is undeniable that the effects of covid along with the more recent war in europe and the energy crisis are affecting us all.
we cannot exclude that new commitments will be made, that new promises will be made, that new declarations of expenditure will be made, particularly as regards energy matters or matters of war.
and among all these challenges, we must continue to address the challenges of climate change and the digital transition.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
– mr president, commissioner, we all depend on essential services such as energy, transport, water, digital infrastructure, health, production and also food distribution.
the recent sabotage against nord stream pipelines is another example of our energy infrastructures’ vulnerability.
i appreciate your concerns for the sector and your support in ensuring its safe and sustainable recovery.
these will benefit from preferential treatment to protect their connectivity, for example, the sustainable alternative fuel allowances that will help bridge the price gap between kerosene and sustainable aviation fuels, and also the possibility to request special treatment under the anti—tankering provisions.
unfortunately, we know that this is the case in all member states, and instead of improving, the situation has worsened during the covid-19 pandemic, and there is a lot of evidence that the current energy crisis will not spare the youngest.