with a ban on commercial personalised advertising targeting children and increased transparency requirements, such as mandatory labelling of deepfakes, we are providing minors with a safe online environment.
i am convinced that this will lead to a better, safer online environment where users' fundamental rights are protected and where companies are also clear about their rights and obligations.
i would rather call for a vote in favour of amendment no 2 to the opinion of the committee on the environment.
- the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on energy, research and technology, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) on the common position of the european parliament and of the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97).
the energy crisis is a direct consequence of this energy source.
it is also harmful to marine biodiversity.
the big losers in this energy transition are the taxpayers, the fishermen and the marine life.
the only thing left at sea will be fishing for huge subsidies by big investment companies and energy giants.
we must stop polluting europe's seas with expensive wind turbines and instead turn to clean, affordable and reliable nuclear energy.
i am therefore glad that nuclear energy has been recognised by the commission as a green investment, because that is the only reliable solution.
europe does not need a strategy for renewable offshore energy, but a nuclear energy strategy!
then we must invest in sustainable economic development, in the fight against inequalities on the african continent.
it means providing an environment where we empower youth and women.
i thought first of all about making houses more sustainable, adapting infrastructure, sustainable transport, and of course not forgetting: covid-19 is out.
in any case, the cap and its reform is the right response to the climate challenge.
in addition, there are certainly still large gains to be made in the field of energy saving.
energy you don't consume, you don't have to import.
let energy efficiency and energy conservation be acts of resistance against russian aggression.
let us not allow our households, vulnerable groups and small and mediumsized enterprises to suffer the consequences of the high energy prices imposed by russia.
the bitter truth is that the government is making energy expensive.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the crisis.
the state is shamelessly enriching itself at the expense of its citizens in this energy crisis.
the green tax and carbon pricing are imposing a huge burden on low-income households.
energy, ladies and gentlemen, must remain affordable for all.
i therefore call on the german government to abolish the absurd and harmful eco-tax and the carbon tax immediately.
president, commissioner, the political attention paid to making our energy system cleaner has been justifiably high in recent years.
and we see that in the energy bill, in the pump, and in our dependence on russia.
that is why we need realpolitik in our energy policy.
let us accelerate solar, wind and hydrogen projects and better connect the energy systems of the european countries.
we must be much more capable of generating our own energy, of defending our own european territory and of producing essential products such as medicines, batteries and computer chips ourselves.
president, commissioner, with the energy transition the european union has made itself completely dependent on russian gas.
i have already mentioned that commissioner timmermans' climate plans are an irresponsible experiment with our economy.
yet commissioner timmermans said yesterday that we still need to meet the previously set climate target of 55 percent less co2 emissions by 2030. in fact, he says that goal is the solution, not the problem!
but energy prices are exploding and a deep recession is looming.
not the energy transition, but the supply of affordable and reliable energy must now be a top priority.
i therefore call on the commission: stop the green deal and focus on affordable and reliable energy.
despite the enormous fears and challenges of war, we still need to pay sufficient attention to environmental challenges.
we have developed an over-dependence on other countries in many important areas, from energy, to the lack of ingredients for medicines and components for modern technologies, not to mention food security.
batteries are a key technology for europe's energy transition.
in addition to the positive aspects, batteries also have a detrimental impact on the environment.
the circular economy for sustainable development and the reuse of strategic materials are a hugely important part of our future.
by setting and respecting sustainability criteria and with the cooperation of producers and users, while respecting the relevant legislation, we will take steps in the right direction.
i am pleased that parliament's report sends a strong signal to promote sustainable battery production in europe, which is crucial both for investment and security of supply and for the reduction of emissions targets.
wood-based lignin is a good example of such a new, sustainable material that contributes to sustainability and the circular economy of the battery industry.
in addition, the flexibility for producers and producer organisations regarding battery waste streams ensures that already efficient recycling schemes will also be able to move easily under this new regulation.
the new battery regulation will create sustainable growth and new investment in europe.
a policy that allows my constituents to pay their energy bills and have money left over at the end of the month.
the report we are discussing today deals with the sustainability of batteries, among other things, and i intend to vote in favour of that bill.
not because i think climate change is necessary.
but if the eu wants that transition to be necessary, then let it not cause additional environmental damage in other parts of the world.
and secondly, the union cannot accept the projects of large european companies in mexico and the rest of latin america which violate the rights of indigenous peoples, which degrade the environment, which damage labour rights, which undermine the rule of law, including the involvement of organised crime, or which establish a neo-colonial economic structure.
environmental, indigenous and women's rights activists are particularly vulnerable.
we are highly concerned about the rising number of assassinations and attacks against journalists and human rights defenders in mexico and about the hostile environment in which they work and risk their lives.
no development can be sustainable without a strong cultural component.
we already see the negative impact of the war in the rising prices of food and energy.
we need to help each other in gaining energy independence so we can stop financing putin’s war.
and i am therefore a bit amazed by the epp attempt to use this crisis to undermine and delay the european green deal, the farm-to—fork strategy and the biodiversity strategy.
healthier diets, wasting less and greater biodiversity are just a few measures which can make a huge difference.
since the beginning of the eu energy union and the russian occupation in crimea, there have been efforts to decrease our energy dependency on russia.
the energy dependency rate is now at a record high level.
the eu member states should now unite on energy policy in the same way they have united on security and defence in the past weeks.
the only sustainable way to ensure stable energy prices and security of supply in europe in the future is to encourage investments in all viable clean forms of energy production, including nuclear energy.
the energy market is liquid.
these are solutions from pandora's box, short-term solutions which seem harmless, but which will actually jeopardise the supply of affordable and reliable energy to european households and businesses.
for 20 years we have been building a system of a common european energy market.
instead, we need to do two things: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the energy efficiency of the community's energy systems.
– madam president, the ipcc is very clear: we have no time to waste.
the previous ipcc report already stated that everything needs to be done to combat climate change.
also now, the ipcc report stresses again and again the urgency to limit global warming to 1.5°c.
because limiting global warming reduces the number of people both exposed to climate-related risks and poverty, and has a much-needed impact on our biodiversity and our vital ecosystems.
i believe that the eu has the resources and know—how to make the energy transition a success.
accelerating the energy transition is crucial, which will not lead to a carbon decrease in the eu but also help other regions in the world jump on the green wagon.
so, please, stop pushing for delays, and get yourself behind the european green deal – our way of a secure, resilient and carbon—free future for the eu.
i would like to reiterate that the assessment showed the msr should be adapted to avoid shocks and to ensure complementarity, coherence and effectiveness in achieving the 2030 and 2050 climate ambition.
it is only fair to continue with the doubled intake rate for a few years and ensure that any review and adjustment of the msr intake rate in the future should aim to minimise regulatory complexity and market speculation, while ensuring a maximum degree of market predictability and that the eu ets is fit for purpose in line with the union’s increased climate ambitions for 2030. this is the reason why the epp has tabled this amendment on this matter.
this was a challenge for most of us, and we had very ambitious colleagues, but we mustn’t forget the realities that the economies of our countries face, that our industry face, especially the heavy ones, and more recently the challenge of the energy supply.
– madam president, the market stability reserve (msr) might seem like a technicality, but it is immensely important for climate.
it is not only the first file in the fit for 55 package, but also key to make the eu emissions trading system (ets) fit for purpose.
but the creation of the msr and also the swedish proposal in the last reform actually saved the european union from – if we count from my home country, sweden – 50 years of swedish emissions.
however, after the pandemic, we now see a new large surplus: 30 years of swedish emissions, if we should use my home country again to show you the picture.
it's time to vote on the increased ambition of climate action, and then the right-wing conservatives have a kind of spinal reflex to shout "stop!
the first thing right-wing populists want to bring down in a crisis is climate ambitions.
the climate crisis has been around for a lot longer.
we need to be able to deal with other crises in parallel with dealing with the climate crisis.
climate change cannot be the first victim of a crisis.
but if you, like many of you here on the right-wing conservative fringe, refuse to acknowledge the climate crisis, then perhaps it's also easy to sacrifice it, the first thing you do.
i believe in the climate crisis.
and that's why i'm voting for increased climate ambition.
president, the european energy tax ets was introduced in 2015 to make fossil-based energy artificially more expensive than green energy.
we are doing this at a time when the term 'energy poverty' is fast becoming the word of the year.
how is it that we still have this proposal on the agenda at all when millions of households are already barely able to afford their energy, not only because of high energy prices but also because of record inflation caused by a failed ecb policy?
we must not only reverse the previous increase in the energy tax, but we must abolish the whole tax.
any charge on energy is perverse.
i hope that everyone who votes for this extension will explain this at home to people who are seeing their energy bill tripled or to people who lost their jobs at a company that has to close its doors because it can no longer pay for the energy.
at a time when our food security is in danger, guaranteeing our fishermen the sustainability of their trade, their industries and their activity is a major issue for our strategic autonomy.
the commission has also taken the initiative of proposing a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
it is strategic legislation, because the enormous task which lies before us in the field of energy transition, but also in the field of reducing dependence on other parts of the world, can only be tackled effectively by european cooperation.
we need much more crossborder infrastructure and crossborder energy projects for that.
because to make the energy system effectively sustainable, we cannot rule out technology.
the current energy crisis, exacerbated by the terrible war in ukraine, makes it even clearer that the european union is too dependent on energy and therefore also vulnerable to blackmail at a time when we should be trying to keep our heads above water.
whereas germany and belgium, for example, are phasing out nuclear energy, the netherlands is rightly - i think - seeking to invest in new power stations.
and whatever choice countries make, we need a lot more coordination when it comes to energy generation.
i think it is time for us in the european union to coordinate our plans for a sustainable energy system and to put an end to this stamp policy.
it's how we make our system sustainable, it's how we keep our energy bills affordable, and it's also how we make ourselves less dependent on other parts of the world.
there is no time to waste.
yes, we understand that when we are dealing with an unprecedented situation and skyrocketing energy prices and some see this as the perfect excuse to delay.
but the climate crisis cannot be paused.
the biodiversity crisis cannot be paused.
do you agree that we are in a biodiversity crisis and desperately need the nature restoration law and the revision of the sustainable use of pesticides directive?
we can accelerate the process by delivering on the fit for 55 package and accelerating energy efficiency and deployment of renewables.
but in the short term we must also look at cushioning the costs of war on our citizens so that we can be better prepared, and i want to welcome the decisions taken in the council on energy, which have allowed the price of gas to be limited, the extraordinary profits of the electricity companies to be taxed... that is important: we cannot make the usual people pay for these costs.
and in the long term, as europeans, we have to reflect on what all these years of external dependence on fossil fuels have meant, which today are not only a problem for climate change, they are a threat to peace and security; we know this today: what is the point, therefore, in this context, of continuing, for example, to keep gas in the taxonomy?
we have no time, because the ipcc report shows that we are running out of time to combat climate change.
i think that among those who will not be affected by this sanctions policy, is russian president putin, who will not care about the energy price.
but those who are really affected, and to a large extent, are the broad masses of people outside who are no longer pushing the price of energy, who are no longer pushing a price of more than 2 euros per litre of fuel, who are no longer pushing the high gas prices and so on and so forth.
the climate policy of this parliament - your policy - has filled putin's coffers to wage this war.
we cannot do that by relying on even more unreliable solar and wind energy, the very energy sources that have made us dependent on russia, because only gas can back up if there is no sun and no wind.
instead, we must now fully commit to clean nuclear energy.
without affordable and reliable energy, we are facing a crisis of unprecedented proportions, and we must prevent it.
food security and affordable and reliable energy must now be top priorities.
the production of telephones has a huge impact on people and the environment.
we rush people to keep buying new phones, and we only create more electronic waste.
it is fully in line with the zero pollution action plan, the chemical strategy for sustainability and the circular economy action plan.
it also implements our international obligations under the stockholm convention and, of course, it ensures the environmentally sound management of waste which contains persistent organic pollutants toxic to the environment and to human health.
we very much appreciate your efforts to find the best approach to minimise emissions of persistent organic pollutants from waste and to promote the uptake of safe secondary materials.
i also note that you would like to go further and faster on the limit values to be set in waste for most of the substances in scope.
i also take note of your request to the commission to equate the concept of the persistent organic pollutants waste with that of hazardous waste in the review of eu waste legislation, and of your proposal to list an additional family of these substances constituted by perfluorohexane sulfonic acid and its components.
the interplay with green deal objectives such as climate neutrality and the ambition for a more circular economy are also very important and need to be taken into account.
the legislative proposal to amend the waste annexes of the persistent organic pollutants regulation was one of the first deliverables the commission proposed under the circular economy action plan.
and we have, i hope, a balanced report tomorrow that will get the approval of this house, as persistent organic pollutants, or pops, are carbon-based compounds that remain in the environment for a long time, toxic organic compounds, and because of their very slow breakdown properties, they’re known as ‘forever chemicals’.
they can be passed from one generation to the next, even if they are no longer required or used, they still persist in our environment.
and one of the risks of pops is that whilst they are no longer required, they can still be present in waste streams such as construction waste, packaging and plastics, electronic waste, among others.
these revisions that we have today will seek to minimise, eliminate where possible, the releases of these pops – well, i think they should be consistently called persistent organic pollutants – and to regulate the waste containing or contaminated by such chemicals.
the objective of my work and that of my colleagues i know has always been to protect human health and the environment from these polluting substances.
so this report attempts to strike a balance with our green deal ambitions relating to toxic-free material cycles, recycling and circularity and reducing greenhouse emissions.
they are also said to be very persistent in the environment.
deciding on lower concentration limits, as we have done in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, therefore directly contributes to better protecting citizens, but also to a cleaner environment for future generations.
some people have mentioned in discussions that lower limits on these concentrations on recycled materials would lead to more incineration and therefore more pollution.
our committee is also calling for the threshold for hazardous waste to be aligned with the limits set out in annex 4 to better manage this highly toxic waste when we are revising the regulation on the export of waste, because we also have to be vigilant about what we do outside the union.
i would remind you that too low limits for persistent organic pollutants in waste are contrary to the objective of the stockholm convention, and so it is now a matter of being consistent.
i therefore urge you to support this text which also calls on the commission to raise its ambitions during the trilogue, in order to contribute to the achievement of a non-toxic environment without delay.
the eu has two major objectives in the european green deal: a resource-efficient circular economy and a pollution-free economy.
however, they do not fit together in the case of persistent organic pollutants, or pops, because pops are among the most dangerous and harmful chemicals in the world, both to our health and to the environment.
therefore, the maximum levels for pop waste must be as strict as possible.
our proposal is the right way to protect our children and to ensure a clean environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new substances.
and finally, i would like to emphasize the need to work on local supply chains, because that, too, is a path to explore, both for food and for the environment.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the extraordinary development of organic farming at european level over the last decade is proof that our farmers, if properly guided and encouraged, are essential allies in the provision of environmental services to the whole community and in achieving the objectives of the green deal.
we cannot therefore allow the commission's ambitious targets to undermine the very high quality of european production by opening the door to the import of organic products which do not meet our environmental, social and economic sustainability standards.
it's not just about pesticides, fertilizers, the impact of these substances on biodiversity, but of course it's also about the resilience of the whole system, because the current system is really not resilient and it doesn't take into account our food self-sufficiency.
we need to build chains that are sustainable, of course, on the most appropriate, market-based basis, and also chains that are as short as possible, i.e.
we should help farmers to be able to get to the market at sustainable and relatively decent prices.
and it's more important now than ever, because the invasion of ukraine has shown us how dependent conventional agriculture is on energy to produce mineral nitrogen, but also how dependent many are on imported feed.
i can and must emphasise that the objectives of the biodiversity strategy and the objectives of climate protection can only be achieved through ecological farming.
we must also remember that conventional agriculture can also be very sustainable if we provide good instruments, a good regulatory framework and good new varieties and provide enough plant protection products for farmers to intervene.
this question-and-answer session is entitled 'energy self-sufficiency in europe: the strategic importance of renewable energy sources, energy interconnection and energy efficiency'.
indeed, we do have in place solidarity measures between member states, and yesterday we had in brussels an extraordinary energy ministers council format where all the colleagues expressed their strong solidarity towards poland and bulgaria whose gas supplies were cut off.
we are talking about strategic autonomy, which starts with energy.
strategic autonomy by increasing energy imports is not strategic autonomy in energy.
we have to prioritise energy savings and renewables because in the long run, they will serve us in the way that we will not be dependent on imports in the way we are right now.
lng, by the way, is part of the transition period towards 2050. so lng can be part of the energy mix tomorrow.
but my question is this: talking about energy autonomy, would the commission consider to extend the sanctions, madam commissioner?
already since the first package of sanctions, we have targeted russia’s energy sector.
we have made clear that they do not have access to the new technological equipment, so they cannot upgrade their energy sector.
we will do this and the core of this plan will be renewables and energy efficiency.
so we foresee a faster uptake of renewable energy projects.
and of course, one work stream is that we have to address the bottlenecks, if possible, but you can expect from our side also that there will be a solar energy strategy, including a european solar rooftops initiative.
– as you know, we made our proposal to update the renewable targets for 2030 a year ago, and now we are in the phase where co-legislators are negotiating their positions.
and of course, we are in the situation where everybody understands the necessity to increase the ambitions for energy efficiency and on renewables and from our side, the commission is also working to partially update our impact assessments.
if we achieve everything that the commission proposed in our energy efficiency and renewables directive, then actually by the end of 2030, we will achieve the volume savings and renewable volumes that help us easily replace and get rid of russian imports.
so, broadly it is agreed among member states that that we need to accelerate the green transition, and energy savings are also at the core of our strategy because upgraded energy efficiency programmes actually help governments to avoid more severe curtailment needs if there will be a full disruption due to the russian site decision.
they are facing energy prices that are soaring and they are struggling to find a way to address them.
and the question is how exactly do you think you should, however, monitor these gas importers, especially because the price of energy, unfortunately, is tied to the price of gas, so that we can make sure that there is no abuse of dominant market power, given the fact that in the european union you don't really have a choice where you go to buy gas.
after tomorrow, i’m going back there because i will open the new pipeline connection that allows poland to use also energy drawn from lithuania.
so this really shows that, in the energy sector, we are doing our utmost to support ukraine to get rid of this dangerous dependency, and by doing so also taking care of our consumers so that the prices will be as affordable as we can provide.
and will we no longer have the examples we saw this winter, where the producers of energy or gas sold at prices ten times their cost price?
i fully agree with you that renewables and energy efficiency are very important alternatives.
we need a very concrete roadmap of procedures and funding in order to push forward both renewables, energy efficiency and the interlinks, especially the ones through the pyrenees.
but my very concrete question is: are you intending to launch a call to european citizens and companies that can afford it to spare energy, to spare the use of gas, to reduce the consumption of oil for the sake of reducing energy prices for all those in our society who cannot afford to pay the energy bills anymore, and for the sake of reducing the amount of euros that we are sending towards russia for their warfare on a daily basis?
energy savings will help us to reduce the costs for consumers and help us to replace some of the imports.
actually, the very first weeks of the war i, together with executive director of the international energy agency, we presented a ten—step plan how to cut gas consumption.
now, on energy efficiency, the commission is elaborating a union—wide energy savings campaign aimed at strengthening the contribution of energy efficiency and energy savings.
and there are already, as i was mentioning, some good lists what everyone can do, but now we have to also call member states to strengthen their energy efficiency plans.
so please speak out loud on energy savings.
we all know that europe's raison d'être is to become independent of russia's energy resources.
we need to develop renewable energy.
but my question is about the surplus energy production in ukraine.
at the moment, ukraine has a rather large surplus of energy production, including from nuclear power plants.
and my question is: is the european commission going to buy this energy from ukraine?
because on the one hand, it's a great way to diversify the energy purchases of the european union's member states, and on the other hand, it would be a great form of support for the ukrainians who are fighting putin's russia, which is so ruthlessly murdering their citizens.
they partially replaced their energy need with imports from ukraine and by doing so, they help ukrainian company to take care of their liquidity because, of course, when there are millions of families who have left ukraine, they do have a problem with electricity bills and payments.
if the commissioner would be so kind as to elaborate a little, because i do not quite understand the problem with the fact that this energy produced in ukraine comes from nuclear energy.
yes, poland already buys energy from ukraine, but my question was going in this direction: is the european commission going to create an instrument that will buy this surplus energy from ukraine, no matter what source it is produced from, for more member states than just what poland is doing today?
– well, after the necessary technical steps have been made and ukraine is fully synchronised with our grid, then they have the full right to participate in our market and their energy production companies can earn the same revenues as other market participants.
they can participate in our energy market as all the rest of us can, and this is not extraordinary.
in your toolbox of 21 october you mentioned the possibility that member states could do this in the context of the energy crisis and price developments.
in addition to the state, which is again and again the beneficiary of increased and massively increased tax revenues from energy prices, there are of course also energy companies that profit madly from the high energy prices and also generate record revenues.
the question now is: are we thinking about whether there should be profit ceilings for energy companies, for example?
but from the energy policy perspective, we gave guidance to member states, if they are willing to use this voluntary guidance, on how to handle the windfall profits that companies do earn due to the extraordinary high gas prices.
madam president, commissioner, europe could be represented as a chained giant in terms of energy.
in other words, a global player with the capacity to compete strategically, but limited and burdened by being chained by the absence of strategic autonomy in the field of energy.
we must act on the urgent measures, but we must act in the opposite direction from what has been done, which, instead of promoting strategic energy independence, has for many years been promoting dependence, which must now be resolved.
as regards gas, it should be borne in mind that the commission has considered gas, together with energy from nuclear energy, as an environmentally sustainable source of energy during the energy transition period.
president, commissioner simson, this debate is about the strategic importance of renewable energy.
however, renewable energy is the cause of our complete dependence on russian gas.
more renewable energy means more dependence.
solar and wind energy cannot be stored.
this means that renewable energy is a strategic risk to our self-sufficiency.
you propose that by 2030, 40 percent of our energy come from renewable sources.
there are 450 million citizens and over 22 million businesses in the european union who need affordable and reliable energy, and it is our responsibility to provide it.
does the commissioner also see the risk of renewable energy and is she prepared to focus instead on cleaner, more reliable nuclear energy?
– thank you for your question and this is really impressive how you keep repeating that nuclear is also needed for energy mix.
so, this is actually the sovereign right of every member state to choose their energy mix.
so, energy mix is decided by the member states.
i have not said that we will get 100 per cent russian gas, mr president, but that when we switch to renewable energy we must have a back-up plant that is 100 per cent fossil fuel.
in that case, are you prepared to release the 40% renewable energy quota by 2030?
cybercriminals, for example, have targeted our energy system, and we know that there's a political agenda behind that.
it was already there thanks to the monetary policy of the unpredictable ecb, which has been running the money presses at record speed for years, thanks to our governments that have shut down the economy with elongated lockdowns and thanks to the european union's green deal that creates greenflation that causes energy, food and raw material prices to rise sharply.
but the war has caused energy prices to skyrocket even further.
affordable energy is the foundation of our economy and therefore of our prosperity and well-being.
are we going to proceed with another round of energy sanctions?
not only did russia record record profits from higher energy prices, but also because its oil exports increased by 100,000 barrels per day from 2021. despite our sanctions, because asia benefits and the world turns out to be bigger than the european union.
mr president, i ask you all: do you want to make the energy transition for our maritime sector a success?
because the green future of our industry has already been set out on the water and let us all join together to steer it into a safe and sustainable harbour.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to speak about an agency called 'fusion for energy' and about iter.
you know that it was originally 5 billion, we know that we have committed 17 billion and the us energy directorate general tells us about 65 billion, and when we asked for the exact timetable, we did not receive it.
this question is not in itself, however: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which is intended to promote the development of the environment in the european union.
we must put new energy into bringing lasting peace between israel and palestine.
more than 40 palestinian journalists have been killed since the year 2000. more than ever, journalists are key to expose the protracted climate of impunity and violations of international human rights and humanitarian law in the occupied palestinian territories.
we will extend our carbon pricing system to producers outside the eu because that’s what we are discussing today.
for our european climate ambitions cbam is a crucial part of fit for 55. it is the only tool we have to incentivise global climate action.
first, we incentivise our trading partners to take climate action seriously.
and thanks to this level playing field, we can finally phase out our current carbon leakage measures – the so-called free allowances.
it covers the right sectors and emissions.
it frustrates me that at the same time, these people pretend to fight for the cause of the climate law.
i take the climate law very seriously, so let’s not make laws knowing we will break them.
we need to start producing in a clean and sustainable way.
and while their ceos tell you that they are in favour of all the climate action, their representatives, their lobby machine demands the exact opposite.
it is time for the european parliament to deliver what is needed for the climate law and for future generations.
the real topic of debate is, are we going to deliver on the climate law?
it is unacceptable that we are risking having a package coming from parliament that is less ambitious than the european commission proposal and does not fulfil our obligations defined in the climate law – because that’s what’s at stake today.
- the proposed flexibility mechanisms were not unkind, but are now being severely restricted by the environment committee.
i think it is very unwise for parliament to go so far as to introduce an additional reduction obligation of 50 megatons for carbon farming.
to give carbon farming a chance, you have to stay away from additional commitments, but you have to focus on a good reward.
we have been discussing the whole day that we need to make sure that the climate law targets will be achieved by the position of parliament.
i think that every sector needs to contribute its fair share to the eu climate effort if we want to reach the paris climate agreement and climate law targets, and it’s the same i think for land—use change and the forestry sector.
i hope we conscientiously decide to vote in favour of the changes, to vote in favour of the climate law.
president, mr timmermans, fit for 55 is the largest package of climate legislation ever.
even more energy taxes, a climate fund of 72 billion euros and - thanks to the vvd - a ban on the combustion engine.
the european commission has no regard for citizens and businesses and is throwing an avalanche of expensive climate regulations at them.
so there is no measurable result for the climate, mr timmermans.
if we put people in the cold, the climate will be the last thing they care about.
let us prepare for winter by increasing our energy security and investing in the green transition.
now some, even you, madam vice president, would like to blame it on territorial disputes, social inequalities and climate change, but the truth is that christians in nigeria are being slaughtered because they believe in christ, because their presence is a factor of social and cultural development that bothers too many.
the european union, which is giving hundreds of millions of euros to nigeria, must also demand in return that its government vigorously defend religious freedom, which is a fundamental human right, as well as many other rights on which the eu institutions devote rivers of ink and rhetoric every day, while we are not even able to devote the necessary energy to religious freedom to appoint a special envoy, which we have been waiting for too long and which the commission has not yet appointed.
these dynamics have been generated by climate change, land exclusion policies and population growth.
and by engaging with africa on this basis, we can ensure the sustainable development of our continent.
we also aim to contribute to securing our supply chains, promoting our values, protecting the climate, and to promote high environmental and labour standards.
the commission also aims to negotiate ambitious and legally binding disciplines on trade and sustainable development.
however, we have not yet shared a proposal for trade and sustainable development as we were waiting for the outcome of the trade and sustainable development review.
we would expect a trade and sustainable development text to be discussed at the next round.
but that future trade relationship must also be shaped in a sustainable and equitable way.
as was the case with the free trade agreement with new zealand, which was struck down by the european commission last week, we expect strong, binding and enforceable agreements to be made with india on climate, sustainability and human and workers' rights.
the green deal and the climate law have set the european union on a new path.
the unjust and uncalled for war of aggression raged by russia in ukraine is triggering new crises – an energy crisis, food shortages – and these two combined will lead to an economic and perhaps migration crisis.
like the common solutions we found for the pandemic, innovative thinking is needed to address our energy challenges.
by investing in the modernisation of our economies, by embracing competition, by improving our entrepreneurial and investment climate, we can continue to sail the ship of prosperity.
people are suffering from it: the 36.8% of young people unemployed; the high level of poverty; the increasing use of fossil fuel riding this global crisis, instead of investments in renewable energy.
use the eu funds to create innovative green and social jobs to transform your country into an inclusive, modern and sustainable state.
and if we have an incident there, then we don't have to worry about co2 pollution in the whole of europe.
this is a green ribbon, a loop, around nuclear energy, and that means, in fact, the revival of nuclear energy in 2022, a nuclear power with which we have had only negative experiences in the course of our history, and i do not need to give all the examples here.
the commission is doing all this on the basis of an internal report from the european commission, which does not even mention how nuclear waste could be handled or that there could be any incidents.
the attempt by the leftist colleagues here to remove nuclear energy from the taxonomy is irresponsible and hypocritical.
we meet here every month in strasbourg and the notorious opponents of nuclear energy are always present here in france.
the eu's own research centre says nuclear energy is no more harmful than renewables.
in addition, nuclear power plants produce energy continuously.
the ipcc and the international energy agency also say we need nuclear power.
day in, day out, you're here pleading to meet your own climate goals.
for that, we have to meet our climate goals.
the taxonomy is an invitation to private investors: invest in our clean energy system of the future.
the taxonomy thus identifies the conditions under which investments can have a positive impact on the climate.
this is quite clear for nuclear energy, because nuclear energy plays an important role as a stable and clean base alongside solar and wind.
the taxonomy does say that in some places in europe, under strict conditions and where there are no alternatives, we could close many dirtier coal plants if we temporarily invest in the cleanest gas technologies there, so that people can continue to heat their homes and at the same time we take steps towards our climate goals.
if we want to meet our climate goals, we don't have the luxury of shutting out technologies.
therefore, our plan is that, already in the second half of this year, we will work on a new strong economic governance framework; we will provide orientation on possible changes to the economic governance of today, after the summer break, so it would be well in time prepared for 2023. we plan, together with the czech presidency, to foster consensus where we can, find the best possible solutions, how to deal with debt sustainability, how to make sure that we will work on sustainable growth through investments and reforms.
we know the positions of both legislators, the council and the european parliament, and our task is to start negotiations, and as you know, one of the priorities of the czech presidency is energy security.
the consequences are rising prices for energy, food, other goods, a destroyed ukraine, all of which puts us in front of new challenges.
the conflict and spiraling energy prices have plunged the european economy into a war-inflation spiral and a global food crisis is looming.
the czech presidency is therefore encouraged to finally focus on energy security in its energy policy.
energy supply is not an ideological issue, but a physical one: either you have a source of energy or you don't.
on the other hand, it is positive that, unlike the left, the czech presidency recognises the key role of nuclear energy in energy security and climate protection.
nuclear energy is an essential part of the european energy mix and any initiative to promote its use is therefore welcome.
finally, it is gratifying that the czech presidency is paying particular attention to mitigating the social and economic impact of the explosion in energy prices caused by the failure of brussels' energy policy.
we need to protect citizens and small businesses from the energy crisis.
the priorities identified by the presidency, namely (1) addressing the refugee crisis and post-war reconstruction in ukraine, (2) addressing the challenges of energy security, (3) strengthening europe's defence capabilities and cybersecurity, (4) ensuring the strategic resilience of the european economy and (5) the resilience of democratic institutions, are all points that require urgent joint action, a deliberate eu policy and concerted action by both the eu institutions and the member states.
the european union's priority for the next six months must be to protect european citizens from the multiple crises we are facing and from the challenges posed by rising energy and food prices, inflation or the war in ukraine.
in close coordination with our g7 partners – we were together in germany a few days ago, we will consider sanctions on gold and we will also explore measures such as price caps to secure energy supply and to try to reduce price surges.
we must continue to strengthen cooperation and strengthen our political and economic links, in particular in the areas of security, development aid, energy and climate change.
finally, with the war in ukraine continuing to have an impact on europe’s economy, not least on food and energy prices, we need to continue doing everything we can to shield the most vulnerable from the worst effects.
the commission will continue its efforts to ensure a united and cooperative approach to energy in europe to make sure that the solidarity principle is fully implemented.
the shadows are those we still see on energy and economic issues, in particular on the issues of security of gas supplies and the fight against inflation, issues which cannot but have a european response.
the council conclusions, while calling on the commission to pursue its efforts to ensure affordable energy supplies as a matter of urgency, de facto postpone the decision to set a european ceiling on gas prices, which could immediately curb inflation, which is also affecting basic goods.
and so we need to act now by diversifying our supply, by investing heavily in renewable energy, by setting a european cap on gas prices now, and by helping households and businesses caught in the crosshairs of high gas bills, high gas prices and inflation in a context where we are not yet out of the pandemic.
from energy to food, from housing to care.
not that the expensive green deal is being put on hold and that affordability and security of energy supply are being given priority.
– mr president, council, commissioner, the cotonou agreement has been successful in promoting sustainable development goals, and we therefore strongly support its successor.
people want to travel in an affordable and sustainable way, without damaging our planet.
sustainable aviation fuels are 80% more sustainable than kerosene.
the old system of cheap and polluting travel, which benefits shareholders at the expense of people and the environment, must be stopped.
mr president, energy efficiency has been a baby in the belly of energy policy for far too long.
and even now - as we see households and businesses running out of money to pay their bills - government leaders are still playing catch-up without coming to any firm agreements on energy conservation.
and this is where energy efficiency really comes into play: for the energy bills of households and businesses, because every kwh we do not use is cheap, for reducing our dependence on russia, because every euro we save does not go into putin's war chest, and for the climate, because the cleanest energy - as many of my colleagues in this debate will say - is the energy we do not have to generate.
i therefore think that the european parliament's wish to increase the energy efficiency target is a good one.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of energy from renewable sources.
the energy efficiency directive is good, but implementation is lagging behind.
i talk a lot with people who want to make their homes more sustainable, but often they are stuck because of a lack of money or knowledge and because of complicated subsidy schemes.
if we replaced all the light bulbs in europe with leds, we would save 65 billion euros on our energy bill.
that's as much energy as we're saving by using 500 coal-fired power plants.
there is still much to be gained, especially now that the energy bill is putting a huge strain on the expenditure of european citizens.
mr president, madam commissioner, the deepening energy crisis requires the european union and all member states to redouble their energy efficiency ambitions.
we are facing the challenge of european energy independence and a key tool to achieve this independence is precisely energy efficiency.
this is the integration of the construction industry into energy efficiency policy, which allows the promotion and increase of the use of energy from renewable sources in the building stock, the renovation of europe's building stock, the widespread introduction and use of highly energy-efficient building materials and technologies in the construction industry.
the european union faces ambitious targets requiring action and investment to increase energy efficiency in the industrial sector, the energy grid and transport.
good legislation is not just ambition, and i think it was important for the epp to establish a really ambitious but also realistic and achievable overall energy efficiency target in the negotiations.
it was pointless to include the storage in the energy efficiency directive.
it is important that we have ensured that member states have taken into account the whole life cycle and foreseeable developments, systems and cost-efficiency and security of supply when applying the principle of energy efficiency.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i do not think there is anyone who does not want to improve energy efficiency.
when we started the energy efficiency debate, the conditions were very different.
consume energy and limit yourself to what you can afford.
that is why i ask you, commissioner, and i ask my colleagues, to reach an agreement so that this energy saving does not lead to a life unworthy of our citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when our citizens are starting to pay huge energy bills, when the european economy is suffering from these high prices, when many european countries are still filling the russian coffers by buying their gas or would like to, at this time, reducing greenhouse gases is not and should not be the first goal, but the security of europe's energy supply.
we really can't put a 30-year environmental goal at the forefront while citizens and business owners are trying to survive the 30-day period and pay the monthly bills.
today we need a real access to energy and so forget, at least for a while, your green pr and listen to the citizens and their needs!
- ladies and gentlemen, any sensible person who looks at his energy bill understands the importance of insulation, for example.
because with our western lifestyle, we've become huge energy scavengers.
not just to save energy, but to have inner peace and peace with god.
mr president, commissioner, the climate crisis was not put on hold because putin invaded ukraine.
nor has climate change stopped because putin is weaponizing energy and actually creating artificial shortages in the european market, putting pressure on our households and our businesses.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy efficiency of buildings is not compromised.
public buildings are a wasted energy sector and member states are now called upon to move faster; and they must move.
circular materials, more energy towards embedded energy from buildings and, above all, what matters: spaces, such as data centres, that can return this energy to citizens.
the commission shares your views on the decisive role of energy efficiency in accelerating our transition to climate neutrality and in phasing out russian fossil fuels so that our security of supply is guaranteed and prices are kept under control.
the vote for the ambitious report on the energy efficiency directive recast proposal will be part of this solution.
indeed, the recast energy efficiency directive will set the framework for actions which are urgently needed.
the proposed amendments on energy efficiency targets, as well as the concrete measures to achieve them, appear to me as a good start for the next steps in the negotiations.
the agreements in the rfmos should be strictly transposed, ensuring a level playing field while promoting the high sustainability standards of the union for all foreign fleets.
– mr president, if we are to solve the climate crisis and the biodiversity crisis, we need healthy and resilient oceans and we need global solutions – and the union memberships in international regional fisheries—management organisations are key tools.
for me and renew, it was very important to the final outcome, besides ensuring correct implementation of the international obligations, that we also included everything being done in a timely manner, that we work to strive for strengthened ocean governance and promoting sustainable fishing management.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, measures to conserve fisheries resources are necessary because the sustainability of stocks has been tested: in saint-pierre and miquelon, after over-exploitation by foreign trawlers in the 1970s, the collapse of cod stocks has been almost irreversible.
this is a model of virtuous and sustainable fishing that ideologues have chosen to sacrifice for the benefit of multinational companies.
if our leaders really cared about protecting our food sovereignty and a sustainable model of resource exploitation, they would stop undermining our fisheries and making regrettable decisions for which they then blame the people of the sea.
and finally, to promote a science-based, innovation-based approach to all fisheries-related activities, improving practices, enabling new opportunities and promoting sustainability.
mr president, commissioner, dear rapporteur isabel carvalhais, the transposition into union law of the conservation and enforcement measures adopted by the northwest atlantic fisheries organisation is crucial to ensuring compliance with sustainable fishing practices in these waters.
the union must speed up these processes by ensuring that fisheries conservation and recovery practices are implemented, in particular by minimising infringements, including illegal and unreported fishing, which harm both the environment and the union's fishermen who comply and whose activity is threatened by those who do not.
in this, as in all organisations, the union must have a strong and active voice in environmental conservation.
the goal of all these initiatives is to address our major concerns – the post—covid recovery, sustainability and under—achievement.
so on the one hand, we have to create new own income, including the appropriate use of emissions trading and the change of the model of this emissions trading.
at the same time, there is a second thread on energy issues, which is to say everything we voted on in our parliament under the slogan fit for 55. the idea was to have consistency between own income and new expenditure.
so the idea was that in order to balance and reduce the negative consequences, we need to create an additional fund that would tie up the own income elements, but also the issues related to the achievement of climate goals.
this conversation today is about the fact that we need to translate, translate the language of legislative decisions on energy and climate change into concrete action items for the european budget.
that is why we are talking today about the social climate fund, about where the money for this fund is to come from, how to ensure that it is budgeted and controlled by the european parliament.
own income, fit for 55 and caring for the people together, this is going to lead to a meaningful and wisely shared social climate fund.
this is a climate crisis, we're responding with the climate fund, of course, russia's aggression in ukraine.
the energy crisis, many states are still feeling the aftermath of the covid crisis.
let's use it to truly protect the vulnerable, promote sustainable growth and push these new programs to the benefit of our citizens.
first, to allow the financing of the social climate fund, as proposed in july 2021, by increasing the relevant mff ceilings by the exact amounts of expenditure proposed for the social climate fund.
we acknowledge that the amendment to the multiannual financial framework regulation is intrinsically linked to not only the new own resources proposal of december 2021, but also to sectoral legislative proposals, namely the social climate fund, the carbon border adjustment mechanism and the emissions trading system directive.
the report contains extremely disturbing circumstances regarding the media environment in my country, the republic of bulgaria.
this is the real and extremely dangerous takeover of the media and therefore of the democratic environment.
it's a waste of money.
and we've also just been talking about energy conservation.
or we can of course also address the commissioner, because closing one of our branches will also go a long way towards reducing our co2 emissions.
mr president, when we talk about the energy crisis, the most important thing for my group is to answer one question: how can we ensure that the energy bill remains affordable for households and small and mediumsized businesses?
the fight against energy poverty has always been a priority for the social democrats.
today, the number of people at risk of energy poverty is enormous.
almost no one has to spend €1,000 on energy alone.
we need to take measures that have a positive impact on people's energy bills now or even retroactively.
they want to know if they can still pay an energy bill.
as socialists, we have been calling for a price ceiling on energy and a tax on the ridiculous windfall profits for months.
his reckless actions have driven up everyday energy and food costs for households and businesses.
that is why renew europe has set out a plan for an energy shield and a food security strategy and act we must.
for example, we set up the european energy union years ago.
and here i would like to say that your programme on energy markets seems acceptable, and i think that you should move quickly with these steps to the difficult negotiations with the member states and make sure that this does not interfere with the energy sector, of course, the single market, which is extremely important.
and let's not waste our energy on the unnecessary!
for example, i think most should be done to decrease this pain level by national governments and at the same time the european union level should take responsibilities to keep it in a balance in joint actions in the single market and energy problems and so on.
and now i want to leave you with a very clear question: the european union has made a number of mistakes in its speech, and has repeatedly referred to the mistakes we have made in becoming energy dependent on russia, as there have been member states and the union itself which have not listened to the governments and the people of other states.
we help ourselves to energy dependency when we have a great solution here.
a european union that, with years of green deal hysteria, with the closure of nuclear power plants and the disruption of our energy supply, helped set off the energy price explosion itself, long before the russian invasion of ukraine was a fact.
a european union which, with its reset concepts, its sustainable development and its 'building back better' nonsense, has started the de-industrialisation of our continent and the implosion of small business and of our agriculture.
president, mrs von der leyen, minister, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, we are talking today about the state of the european union, and the state of the european union is crisis, an energy crisis.
for years this commission and this parliament have sabotaged nuclear energy and made our own fossil fuel production impossible.
today the european parliament is sending the message that we want to keep our companies in europe and that we want to help them grow into the most sustainable and competitive companies in the world, so that we produce in europe in a clean way the products we need in our economy of tomorrow and that we also keep jobs in europe.
that means a reliable government providing energy infrastructure, renewable energy, and protecting european companies where necessary.
give us the pathways that show what is needed in the sectors for the energy transition, for remaining competitive, for what kind of breakthrough technologies are needed, how the regulatory burden on the ecosystems is.
last but not least, it will contribute to the reduction of more than a thousand tonnes of e-waste every year.
it has increased the cover to the broadest possible range of what we call ‘radio equipment’ and even increase the expected benefits for eu citizens and, of course, the environment.
we will look at whether or not there is a need to improve consumer convenience, save costs, improve environmental performance.
also the relationship between products, consumers and the environment, and that is indeed needed.
i hope this is a token of more to come because we are looking forward to future steps and, together with parliament, continuing to improve our everyday life and, of course, our environment, while still allowing new technologies to develop.
it creates convenience and saves money for citizens, while benefiting the environment by reducing the generation of e-waste.
each year, more than 400 million small chargers are sold in the european union, and more than 11 tonnes of electronic waste is thrown away.
this proposal is a major contribution to more sustainable consumption and will help the health of our planet.
i call on all of you to vote in favor of this bill for the benefit of consumers and the environment.
we achieved a solution which will facilitate consumers’ lives, and it will help the environment.
there will be less e-waste, i think, by thousands, if not millions of tonnes, and we will give our fellow citizens a chance – which you also underlined – to choose whether you want to buy a new device with a charger or without a charger.
the standardisation of charging standards will make them easier to use, cheaper and will reduce the generation of e-waste and the use of rare metals.
and that's not only opaque, but it's also unnecessarily expensive for consumers and really very unfriendly to the environment.
if the commission really cares about the environment, the steps to introduce a single charger should have been taken long ago.
yet the adoption and standardization of the usb-c standard in two years is a really important step in reducing electronic waste and will undoubtedly lead to an easier life for all of us.
so life is getting easier, and it's good for the environment, and it's good for our wallets.
a common charger will not only reduce our ecological footprint, it will also save consumers money.
more specifically - we heard this earlier today - we will reduce our electronic waste by about 11 000 tonnes a year, while consumers will save in the region of eur 250 million a year.
it is a fantastic job you have done and i am convinced that the legislation will serve both the environment and the consumers very well.
the common charger is an example of the european union making people’s lives easier: no more searching for the right cable, while also protecting the planet from unnecessary electronic waste.
today, finally, we are putting the interests of the environment and consumers above the interests of big tech companies through solid legislation.
this achievement shows that we as the eu can set standards for a sustainable digital future.
so why not make sure that the whole digital transition is sustainable from the start?
to my colleagues here and to the commission: we do not have another 10 years to wait for voluntary agreements until we realise that we need clear environmental standards for electronic devices or, for example, data centres.
we are in a climate crisis.
we need to steer the digital transition to truly twin the green transition and make sure it doesn’t harm people, but benefits them and the environment from the start.
we cannot expect to provide answers to the costly energy bills and energy bills in 13 years for our europe and our country.
the introduction of a common charger will not only lower costs, but also improve the safety and interoperability of chargers and reduce electronic waste.
it is important that we reduce costs, it is important that we improve environmental protection, and all of this is provided by this proposal.
as we know, we can save over 11,000 tons of electronic waste a year.
this proposal is therefore necessary and crucial, in particular to make it easier to work with computer technology, to save money and, of course, to improve environmental protection.
it's a big step forward from a sustainability standpoint.
we think that the reduction in e-waste is estimated to be around 1,000 tons a year.
first of all, the common charger is clearly a common sense choice: 84% of consumers have problems with phone chargers, and the cost of this mess and confusion is enormous - not to mention the electronic waste, 11,000 to 13,000 tons of electronic waste produced per year.
secondly, our choice is a coherent one: consistent with our desire to create a sustainable single market for consumers and producers, consistent with our circular economy strategy, consistent also with our desire and effort to affirm a real freedom of choice for consumers.
we are making our products more sustainable, encouraging reuse, saving resources and co2 while enabling technological innovation, ensuring greater transparency and better information, and thus making life easier for consumers.
it is important that consumer rights and environmental considerations trump commercial interests at least some of the time.
that situation simply costs consumers money and led to unnecessary electronic waste.
anything that protects consumers, the environment and saves money is always welcome.
we may have to come back here to tackle the issue of unbundling and wireless charging, but this is still a good day for consumers and the environment.
because it is a practical intervention by the european union that empowers consumers while also doing something positive for the environment by reducing electronic waste and indeed the pressure on scarce sustainable resources.
having so many different types of chargers for our various devices is, as we know, very frustrating for consumers and it isn’t good for the environment.
while they are very often consisting of a lot of different chargers, this is not just a waste of money, it’s also a waste of raw materials and it’s creating piles of electronic waste.
well, most of the time voluntary measurements just don’t work because it’s the business of businesses to earn money and not to have good, let’s say, environmental friendly and consumer friendly product designs.
so, let’s not be naive, by regulating now common chargers across the european union, we’re serving the climate, we’re serving consumers, and we are ending the differences of chargers.
with the standardisation of the charger, we are making it easier for consumers to use, reducing e-waste and tackling market fragmentation in the european union.
- the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0406 - c4-0177/97).
it is of course related to the energy price situation, but it is also necessary to recognize the systemic relevance not only of the agricultural sector but also of the upstream and downstream sectors.
and ... (the president shall withdraw the floor from the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the escalation in the prices of raw materials and energy costs which we have been witnessing for months is having irreversible consequences, the first victims of which are our farmers, once again.
in the face of this emergency, which affects european countries, businesses and households in unequal ways, a european response is therefore needed that can support our production system and guide it towards ever greater sustainability and independence of the most critical productions, from gas to ammonia, necessary for the production of fertilisers, to agricultural raw materials that guarantee our food security.
we also have to recognize that the nitrogen industry alone contributes to 2.4 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions, and nitrous oxide emissions are rising.
the answer to this question is not to subsidize chemicals more, but to turn to agro-ecological systems.
we are now seeing the problems of being dependent on third countries for our energy supply.
but, so far in this house, we have seen more support for companies struggling with the rising energy costs than support for citizens.
that’s why i ask our european leaders, when discussing how to respond to the energy crisis, to look beyond mere numbers and to take action for people.
decide on a european moratorium on evictions and a moratorium on being cut off from energy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
and 99 percent of the fuels that power these container ships are fossil fuels, and so bad for climate warming and bad for the air quality in ports.
nowhere in the world have we reached an agreement on how to stop this pollution.
the clean shipping act will ensure that all container ships and all cruise ships sailing in or coming into the eu must be sustainable in the future.
with this law, we are making fair agreements on how container ships and cruise ships can emit less and less co2 from 2025 and from 2030 be obliged to use electricity when they are at anchor in the ports, so that there is no more air pollution in seaports such as rotterdam and amsterdam.
because every year 400 000 people die prematurely in the eu because of air pollution.
that was my mission as a negotiator: an even faster reduction in co2 emissions and a mandatory zero-emission fuel rate, so that fuel producers can start producing these most sustainable fuels now.
this ambitious clean shipping act will help us meet climate objectives while giving fuel producers a clear picture of the huge investments needed to make this maritime sector sustainable.
not only is the energy bill rising, but so are the expenses for daily groceries and transportation.
and this energy crisis is widening existing social inequalities.
how do we make sure the energy bill is affordable?
hopefully, the heads of government will reach an agreement next friday to tame the unruly energy market.
when the multiannual financial programme was being prepared, no one thought that a pandemic would strike, that russia would go to war, that inflation would hit, that energy prices would rise drastically.
we must urgently put an end to discriminatory direct payment schemes, support young farmers by all means, give everyone access to technology and adequate energy, and invest in the protection of biodiversity.
our way of life must prevail, and that’s why we need a more sovereign, strong and independent europe, on food security, on industrial competitiveness, on energy and raw materials, and on security and defence.
in egypt we have to deliver on the paris agreement on our climate goals.
when it comes to decarbonising the world, we have a momentum to engage with developing countries to share the benefits and advantages of the global energy transition.
let this african cop be more than just a symbolic gathering, let’s pave the way for a real european-african partnership with a strong pillar for sustainable energy.
a lot of sustainable energy potential in africa is still untapped.
this represents a unique opportunity to provide affordable, reliable and sustainable energy for africa and europe.
if we cooperate more, both africa and the rest of the world can benefit tremendously from their capacity for renewable energy.
as the green deal is on its way to deliver on climate neutrality in europe while leaving no one behind, the paris agreement reminds us that we have to do the same for the rest of the world.
his war is outrageous, but the inflation crisis is the direct result of the ill-conceived energy transition.
we haven't invested in clean nuclear energy, we've invested in unreliable solar and wind.
the real problem is a lack of energy supply.
i hope that italy will also embrace nuclear energy.
on energy, i believe we need more cooperation among the member states.
energy plans that are based on subsidising the cost of energy to a mere fraction of the market price can undermine energy security, can create big political tensions, and at the same time can undermine the functionality of the market.
we need more cooperation on this and sustainable economic support for our households and businesses.
if politicians are sincere in their intention to overcome the energy crisis and the oil price, they will follow this infallible compass.
we have a plan to lower and more equitable energy prices.
madam president, due to the russian invasion and therefore emergency situation on the energy market, we are in an extraordinary situation and therefore we need extraordinary measures to deal with it.
i do believe that these proposals, together with supporting supply and reducing demand on the energy market, will be leading to the stability and much—needed price reduction on the market.
an agreement must be found on gas price caps, taxation and redistribution of unjustified profits of large energy companies, and common gas purchases in the eu to help and protect the most vulnerable people and businesses.
the rise in energy prices is a major concern for 47% of slovaks.
in slovakia, approximately one in six households is at risk of energy poverty.
i welcome the commission's support for the use of the unexpended funds to combat the energy crisis.
thirdly, when we talk about increasing the energy and strategic autonomy of the european union, this implies joint purchasing, a joint strategy for the purchase of gas and supplies of european scope.
madam president, we pay a high price in economic and energy terms for putin’s aggression against ukraine.
but make no mistake: energy prices and inflation had risen even before russia’s invasion of ukraine.
the mechanisms of green transition and liberalisation, which are the causes of the soaring energy and fuel prices, are further undermined.
new incentives are given to the groups to gamble on the energy market and joint gas orders at competitive prices with china and india, in the interests of european monopolies and not the people.
that is why the price of electricity will remain unaffordable for the people and they will have to pay the state subsidies out of their own pockets so as not to disrupt the revenue of the energy companies.
solidarity with compensation and with the uncompensated could only be proclaimed by the european union, governments and the rapacious energy monopolies.
the working people must intensify their struggle to break free from the imperialist war, against the eu's precision strategy, for wage increases and cheap energy, so that no popular family is frozen.
perhaps today, however, you can give an answer: when are concrete measures being taken to end this energy crisis?
– madam president, mr president of the council of the general affairs, honourable members, first and foremost, i really would like to thank you for this truly political debate this morning, because we have been indeed discussing the most pressing issues europe and the europeans are facing today: aggression of russia against ukraine, war on our continent, and the economic and social consequences of high energy prices, high inflation and the rising cost of living, being mentioned by almost all who intervene and present it in a very eloquent manner by the leaders of the political groups represented now ms reintke.
but i think that you will all agree with me that if it comes to what is on the table for our leaders at the european council, that there are all elements for the solutions to tackle this energy crisis we are facing right now.
all of you have been highlighting the burden our citizens and businesses are carrying because of the high energy prices.
but we know that there is a lot of questions we have to answer in a way that it would not lead to an inadequate increase of the consumption of gas, because then we would again be faced with a lack of energy supplies to the european union.
and of course, what is important for big businesses, we also presented a new temporary framework for state aid to help energy-intensive industries across europe.
so we can sit with the energy ministers, we can sit with you, members of the european parliament, to hammer out the details.
there was a clear message from this parliament for more ambitious and more coordinated eu responses to the energy crisis that we face.
i also took note of your strong condemnation of the latest strategic developments in russia’s war of aggression, targeting civilians and cutting off ukrainian energy supplies.
honourable members, this european council meeting has a substantial agenda in which leaders deal with the complex and interlinked crises we face today: our safety and security, our continued access to affordable energy supply, climate and biodiversity and the strength and resilience of our economy.
that is good, because in that way europe can help to meet, for example, people's concerns about energy costs in a structural way in the future.
each country has tried to devise its own solutions to the crisis, but it is clear that individual initiatives are not enough and that a genuine european solidarity must be at the centre, both in terms of sharing gas and in terms of prices, all in the context of strengthening our energy independence.
in this sense we expect the energy ministers to finally translate into concrete measures the political line decided by the european leaders.
of course, we have to invest in two important factors: energy saving and investment in renewable energy and, at present, diversification of gas supply sources.
the rising cost of energy is seeping into the prices of everything else, from food to goods, resulting in monster inflation and a looming recession.
the european council is not talking about what is needed in the face of the energy shortage, namely increasing supply, but about reducing energy.
the eu is creating a bigger energy deficit than it needs.
we are in an energy crisis because most of the world is against both our own fossil energy and nuclear energy and russian energy.
you can either want affordable and reliable energy, or you can want woke energy sources, or you can want a boycott of russia.
the energy supply, which is the most important thing for most europeans, is dying.
affordable and reliable energy is a basic need.
our only option is to use all the energy sources we have: coal, gas and nuclear energy.
the european union must get rid of its pink cloud, renounce its green ideology and guarantee energy security.
do you not think that in the food sector, where the energy price has also started to rise, there is a lot of speculation in the supply of fertilisers, the supply of means of production, the sale and processing of food?
should not similar measures be introduced now, as in the energy sector, both by taxing additional profits and, of course, by setting price ceilings for basic foodstuffs?
we need to produce a lot more energy.
we have been rapidly cutting down reliable sources of energy in europe, particularly fossil fuels, and we have stopped nuclear energy.
energy is a basic need that is intertwined with everything.
for example, we need energy for every production process and the production of fertilisers, for example, requires gas.
we must not therefore disturb the market any further, as we have done with energy production, by granting all kinds of subsidies and favouring renewable energy.
let us let the market do its job, provide enough energy and not try to eliminate reliable energy sources even further.
national recovery and resilience plans have been a central pillar of our response to the economic and social consequences of the pandemic, but the energy crisis we are facing today requires an approach that allows them to be adapted to the current context.
at the same time, europeans in energy poverty are the most affected by rising energy prices, with significant consequences for living standards and health.
the commission has also identified a number of areas where the union's response to climate change could be more effective, such as the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from transport.
we also ensured that we will have measures that contribute to improving energy efficiency and included references to investment schemes specifically targeting vulnerable households, smes and micro-enterprises.
the unprecedented and unprovoked russian aggression against ukraine has shown us that the union's energy security is far from being at the required level and that reliance on a single source of energy is unacceptable.
the need to make a rapid transition to clean energy in line with the eu's 2030 climate goals and its objective of achieving climate neutrality by 2050 has never been more urgent.
the key objective of the repowereu plan is to reduce the union's energy dependency.
high prices and risks of disruption of energy supply threaten the economic outlook, have a negative impact on small and medium-sized enterprises and weaken the territorial cohesion of all member states.
moreover, volatile energy prices could undermine the competitiveness of businesses and deepen inequalities and energy poverty, in particular among vulnerable low- and middle-income households.
it is in our interest to increase the share of renewable energy in the energy mix and to take measures to address labour shortages and skills or infrastructure gaps.
this proposal, which aims to strengthen our capacity, to support reforms and investments aimed at diversifying energy supplies, including fossil fuels, and thus also to strengthen the union's strategic autonomy in parallel with an open economy, is therefore of the utmost importance.
the adaptation of the regulations associated with the implementation of the repowereu initiative to the new circumstances caused by the impact of the invasion of ukraine by russia and the strategy applied by the invading power, using energy as a weapon of blackmail and war, is timely and necessary.
the amendments under discussion are a possible compromise, in a context of enormous difficulty, between the need to secure supply and, at the same time, to continue the effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to combat climate warming and to mitigate its effects.
i would stress the possibility of financing projects aimed at alleviating energy poverty.
in addition, the emergency regulation announced by the european commission to de-bureaucratize the licensing of new projects for the production, storage, transport and distribution of renewable energy, coupled with a new common model of guarantees to facilitate their financing, is an important contribution to preserving the environmental and sustainable development ambition associated with the initiative.
sustainable fertilisation measures should be implemented in an accelerated manner.
also important is better access to organic fertilisers and nutrients from recycled waste streams, especially in regions with a low usage of organic fertilisers, as is support for the conversion of the european nitrogen fertiliser industry to one based using renewable and fossil free hydrogen, and to assure that there is a stable and workable regulatory environment governing the production of renewable and low carbon hydrogen, thereby ensuring that the market for renewable and low—carbon hydrogen—based fertilisers can rapidly develop.
if you add up the additional costs to farmers from higher energy and fertiliser costs, it comes to eur 45 billion this year.
and you make it a little bit easier if you just say, yes, energy costs are high, and that's why fertilizer is expensive.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy resources are used in a sustainable manner.
it must be the aim of all of us to ensure the quantity, quality and security of the sustainable supply of the highest quality food within the eu.
you mentioned that in many countries they were overweighting the additional costs of energy and fertilizer.
so why would you actually stop the diversification from artificial fertiliser to agro-ecological methods?
it’s healthy soil that will provide us with food security in the upcoming years – a soil that is able to keep water, to keep the carbon and to sustain our plants without becoming dependent on russian energy, on the import of substances from abroad.
it’s the independent agriculture, the self-sufficient agriculture that keeps our food security in the european union, and why are we actually taking windfall profits of the energy companies to share them with the fertilizer companies?
no, they are meant to help citizens to pay their high energy bills.
yes, also farmers to pay their high energy bills, but i can’t really follow your strategy and don’t understand in times of climate crisis why we are still supporting artificial fertiliser.
she is looking for fertilizer in oman, turkmenistan and qatar, whereas the solution is largely just waiting to be found in the eu: renure, nutrients from animal manure that we can recycle ourselves into high-quality, renewable fertilisers.
– madam president, this parliament has an ambitious agenda for sustainability in the broadest sense of the word, from curbing emissions under the green deal to improving minimum wages, ensuring responsible investing or achieving gender equality on company boards.
but those ambitions around sustainability, they cannot be achieved without companies playing their part.
i am pleased that with our vote tomorrow on new and better reporting requirements, we can make a very practical and tangible contribution to sustainability.
it is timely, because our climate problem won’t wait, and i want to warmly thank pascal durand for the result we have been able to achieve under his energetic leadership.
we've seen how vulnerable our energy infrastructure and our data infrastructure can be.
in 2022, we expect more from companies, and that goes from gender equality to respect for human rights, climate change and the environment.
i am trying to do that, and you mentioned two of my projects, women on board and sustainability legislation.
this is also important in the energy sector.
energy is a public good that we have left far too much to the market in recent years.
secondly: let us seek better european cooperation in energy production and purchasing.
and let us also make it clear that the choice one makes in one country to close a nuclear power plant, for example, affects the energy security of another country.
russia is using energy as a weapon against us.
bring them in safety and offer them sustainable protection, don’t leave them alone.
i know that this parliament shares the commitment to protecting europe’s biodiversity, its habitats and species and that it is fully conscious of the sense of urgency.
we believe that it is possible to ensure the continuation of sustainable livestock farming systems and the conservation of large carnivores.
i would like to recall at this point the letter sent by commissioners wojciechowski and sinkevičius to all agriculture and environment ministers in november last year, urging them to make the best use of available eu and national funding opportunities.
i think that this approach is fully in line with the requests expressed by the european parliament in its resolution on the eu biodiversity strategy for 2030. member states or regions within member states do have a means to act.
current eu environmental and agricultural legislation provides member states with important instruments, funds and tools to ensure that the conservation of protected large carnivores and the continuation of sustainable farming practices and public safety can go hand-in-hand.
at the same time, the wolf is a real challenge for farmers, especially those who are grazing, who are farming in a particularly climate-friendly and environmentally friendly way, especially those farmers who live in mountain areas and in areas of the union where the population is less concentrated.
there are shadows, which we have mentioned: the difficulty of maintaining the mitigation goals and ambitions; the continuing gap between the science, our goals and the national commitments that each country is contributing; and the difficulty of continuing this commitment to medium- and low-carbon and the elimination of fossil fuels.
some of the highlights: the creation of the no losses damage fund, which is a huge achievement for climate justice, for support and help for the most vulnerable; and, among the highlights, there is also the role played by the european union, by frans timmermans, by the commission and its member states, looking for transactions, building bridges and looking for solutions.
then we can update the ndc so that we can say we have put in our climate law a binding reduction of at least 55% by 2030 on the basis of all the results of our trilogues and the decisions we have taken.
that would probably, most certainly already now, lead to a more ambitious ndc, but i have to state very clearly, we do not change our climate law.
climate law remains as it is.
we should be making a much, much bigger case for the reduction of energy consumption.
having said all that, it is without any doubt that i have to say that natural gas in particular will play a role in the transition towards climate neutrality – it plays that role in europe.
we cannot deny others use of that natural gas as a transitional energy carrier if we’re doing that ourselves; that would be highly hypocritical.
now, even if you look at historic emissions, and i say this to those who talk about history, china is right up there with the major emitters.
even if you just look at historic emissions, because of the enormous amounts of their emissions.
by the way, china is suffering a lot from the climate crisis and is investing massively in renewables and in other areas.
now, climate is not an ideology.
climate policy is based on science.
but you cannot decarbonise our economy without putting a price on carbon.
the one instrument that has worked extremely well and is being copied, by the way, by other parts of the world is the european emissions trading scheme, which has used market elements to put a price on carbon and created a market that is working better and better to decarbonise our economy and to give certainty to economic actors in the long term.
i share partly the disappointment of this house in terms of what we did, what we couldn’t achieve on emissions.
for two weeks, political actors and intergovernmental organisations have been trying to find solutions to one of the most pressing contemporary problems - global warming.
the european union has said it will support one of the most difficult items on the agenda, the financing of countries affected by climate-related disasters.
the first is the financial, technological and capacity-building assistance that the most vulnerable countries need to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions and adapt to the unavoidable effects of climate change.
concrete partnerships are needed to mitigate climate change and more solidarity with the countries most affected.
linked to this is the issue of food waste.
the climate and biodiversity crisis and our food security objectives all remind us how vital rural areas and farmers are to our food security.
essentially, they help guarantee an economically, ecologically and socially sustainable production.
on the other hand, we need to add to agriculture tourism, the energy sector, care for the elderly, e-health in rural areas, and in this way we will do what we want to do to strengthen rural areas.
and it’s mainly small and medium-sized farmers – the ones that mainly produce ecological, viable food – who mainly drive a kind of agriculture that fits with biodiversity and climate.
many people pay homage to a completely misunderstood idea of biodiversity and accept or even welcome the fact that wolves and bears roam through our villages and prey on livestock.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one.
however, for these commitments to translate into concrete action, a change of pace in the union's policies for the development of inland areas is needed, accompanied by greater support for increasingly socially, environmentally and economically sustainable agriculture.
at the same time we will oppose measures such as the emissions directive which endanger animal husbandry, even though it involves pastures of high environmental value and endangered breeds, providing income and vitality in remote and mountainous areas.
the report aims to develop new sources of income for rural areas, including the production of renewable energy.
i believe it is our duty to protect the unparalleled wealth of our agricultural heritage before we disperse into risky energy policies.
i challenge this goal of agricultural degrowth, because it leads us to an economic and environmental impasse.
security to make the investments necessary for a sustainable future.
madam commissioner, at a time in which we are blackmailed through our dependence on an autocratic third country on energy, we have to make sure that this will not happen again in the future.
they are an elementary part of the austrian working environment, just as the presence of austrian companies is part of everyday life in romania and bulgaria.
we are doing it as if there were not more urgent problems on this planet, especially for europe, like the war of aggression from putin’s russia, inflation, the energy crisis, or on a geopolitical level, what’s happening in the pacific and elsewhere.
then we can achieve a true peace – a sustainable peace.
i would say, let's focus on fostering an environment that creates space for conversation, an environment of mutual respect.
mr president, once again we are talking about energy and once again we are talking about the margins.
it's going to be absolutely unbelievable for the people back home, the people who are in the cold, the people who can't pay the bill, the people who are forcing your climate ideology on you, which is why we have energy shortages now.
instead of working for the welfare and safety of these people, the socialists here accept bribes from the biggest climate ideologues and hungarian bashers, including oil dollars from qatar!
ensure that sufficient reliable and affordable energy can be produced within the eu.
repowereu can only do so with more fossil and nuclear energy at the moment.
if we want to be a union that works for people, our response to the energy crisis has to go further than security of supply and the necessary reforms of the energy market.
and that’s why i call upon the european commission to use its competence to urgently present a proposal for emergency legislation that bans energy disconnections for everyone in europe this winter.
we need to take action to help people who can’t pay their rent, food or energy bills.
the greek policy of silencing media and civil society has created a hostile environment which is detrimental to the necessary checks and balances of an open society.