there is no issue more important today than the energy crisis, the poverty of europeans and the security of europeans.
madam president, president of the french republic, in march 2020, the french and dutch ministers published a non—paper on the social and sustainability aspects of eu trade policy.
it called for increased efforts by the commission and member states to implement ambitious environmental and labour standards, as well as sustainability criteria, into the functioning of the international trading system, and to encourage responsible business conduct.
the sustainable corporate governance directive has already been withheld from publication twice by the commission, and yet the presidency programme refers to this legislation as a future initiative.
the pan-european energy crisis is developing in a way that is worrying to say the least, and the community market for carbon dioxide emission allowances in the ets that contributes to its development requires a thorough and urgent reform.
we are facing increasingly aggressive russian actions both in the area of energy security and in provocative actions against the union and the world, such as military actions on the border with ukraine.
it remains to be hoped that the french presidency will focus honestly and responsibly on tackling the real threats facing us all and will not waste valuable time on secondary issues, such as questioning the rule of law in countries like poland or hungary, and that each of the member states will deal with its own problems.
we cannot afford to miss this unique opportunity to re-establish a healthy and fair digital environment for all.
this regulation shapes the fast-moving digital economy and is an important step towards building a secure online environment.
it is in the interest of the eu and its member states to promote democratic, sustainable development in sudan.
a sick and out of control system, which is proving more and more every day to be a huge danger to everyone, to the animals of course, who are exploited to the extreme, but also to the whole planet, to the climate, to our health and to the small farmers.
i have a few examples: we want to see tougher penalties for those member states which ignore eu legislation on sustainable animal transport; there should be penalties for breaking these rules.
slaughtering and processing meat close to the farming area contributes to animal welfare, to the economic profit of farmers and also reduces gas emissions.
the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the context of the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
farmers are on the front line of many core issues we face today, from climate change to animal welfare.
mr zoido álvarez mentioned the need for legislation to proceed on the basis of evidence and knowledge and thorough impact assessments as those that are distributed across society, the economy and the environment.
the work foreseen during this legislative revision is a worthy investment in a more sustainable future for our society and i believe we will meet the demands that european citizens have in ensuring a better life for animals.
it is important that all our revised legislation serves our sustainability goals.
good animal health status on the farm means less drugs and antibiotics, a lower environmental footprint from livestock farming, a higher quality end product and ultimately what we all strive for better overall welfare of farm animals.
at the same time, animal welfare must be combined with a sustainable economic approach that ensures a clear return on investment and higher production costs, and with an appropriate transition period for livestock farmers to adapt their holdings to the higher standards.
this is contrary to the objectives of the european green deal, the 'field to fork' strategy and the approach promoted by the ec to link human health with animal health and the state of the environment.
animal welfare rules on holdings should be adapted to the needs of the individual animal species, their diet, health, natural behaviour and environmental protection.
it's time for the voices of reason, science, experts and experts to speak up for animals, the environment and health.
marine renewable energy is one of the key elements of the european energy transition strategy.
this will allow countries that are starting to invest in renewable energy sources at sea, including poland, which i represent, to develop their infrastructure more quickly and increase the volume of energy from these sources more quickly.
it is also crucial that the specific decisions on the development of marine renewable energy remain the responsibility of the member states.
first, we have the targets: 55 percent by 2030, and climate neutrality by 2050, along with energy security.
and yet, wind is our own energy source.
secondly, the sustainable blue economy is very important, namely marine energy, green reindustrialisation.
in some sectors of the economy, energy-intensive industries cannot reduce emissions without clean hydrogen, and there certainly won't be enough clean hydrogen without offshore installations.
without transparent and non-discriminatory rules of the game for everyone, we will not fully exploit the potential of marine renewable energy and, above all, we will not reduce the energy bills of our citizens.
we must guard against their undesirable impacts, in particular on fisheries, aquaculture, ecosystems and biodiversity.
in the european union we already have innovative projects involving these technologies and portugal, my country, has been at the forefront, but we need specific action towards a full and technologically neutral integration of all energy sources and vectors.
we also need to invest in scientific research and innovation to achieve our climate neutrality goals, and this is even more important in light of the escalating energy prices.
the review of the renewable energy directive is also an opportunity to accelerate the development of early-stage offshore technologies and to provide clearer guidance to companies and investors.
i am pleased that it has addressed the expectations of meeting our ambitious climate targets by supporting the construction of more and different types of offshore wind farms.
i believe that with more support from the european commission, we can get the 450 gigawatts needed to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. it is also important that the commission, when implementing individual hybrid projects, ensure that the inevitable rise in sea and ocean levels is taken into account in the medium and long term, so that the energy infrastructure that will be built is safe and can serve the next generations of wind turbines.
but we must be persistent in this, especially when it comes to cigarettes, heated tobacco products, alcohol or the polluted environment, and therefore each of us should ask ourselves when voting what is more important to us: the health of our citizens or the interests of the lobby?
it must be the basis for strengthening a strong partnership between equals, pragmatic, multilateral, focused on results, on the quality of life of the people and on the sustainability of the planet.
a partnership for which the africa-europe investment programme, to which the european union has allocated eur 150 million to focus on renewable energy, disaster risk reduction, digital transition, vaccines and education, is the starting point of the global gateway and which is expected to mobilise eur 300 billion of public and private funds for infrastructure projects worldwide.
through our partnership with africa, we must contribute to building a more sustainable and safe (unheard words) ...and future generations.
thank you for the interesting way you've approached the hybrid, cyber threats, the energy blackmail as a hybrid tactic.
first, it could be a link to the three seas initiative sectoral cooperation in the fields of energy and transport infrastructure.
europe must also make a strong effort to become independent of russian energy supplies.
the security of our energy system cannot be left to the whims of russia's autocratic leader.
i welcome the words of the president of the european commission that we need to become more independent in the energy sphere.
this would be good for the environment, good for the european economy, good for member states (we would all get gas cheaper) and good for our standing with mr putin.
also, we must be much better prepared for conflicts with countries that are an important supplier of energy, like russia.
however, this is a keen reminder that russia cannot be a trusted partner for the eu, and this should include how we get our energy.
our future lies in home-grown renewables but, until we fully transition, lng can provide an avenue away from russia, with terminals future-proofed to handle green energy.
there are many issues about the diversification of the energy supply, but i think the president of the commission has given a very complete answer on all the work that she personally and my colleagues, commissioners and myself have been doing with other suppliers of gas – norway, algeria, azerbaijan, the us.
the development of a network of environmental services for the prevention, diagnosis, rehabilitation and treatment of mental disorders is also necessary.
and it is this security, including yours, that he is defending against putin, who, among other things, here in this house, has been allowed to implement nordstream 2, to whom he has been entrusted with the energy security of europe.
and rest assured that we have not the slightest doubt and let doubt arise, that we do not pursue these things with sustainability and commitment.
and together, i'm convinced that this will end up being a functioning, sustainable instrument.
as a result of climate change, women are losing their jobs, they are less competitive in the labour market, they are taking on the role of carers for the elderly and the neglected.
in 2015, at the so-called paris agreement, which made one of the most important decisions on climate change, only 9 percent of women headed national delegations.
and if the effects of climate disaster are going to be felt more by women, shouldn't that mean that they should have as much, if not more, to say about supporting climate action as men?
it mixes women with gender ideology and climate change with a logic that is impossible to decipher.
what does effective gender-transformative climate action mean, for example?
they get their common sense back if they really want to support women or the environment.
mr president, climate change affects everyone: women, men, boys and girls.
systemic discrimination has led to gender-differentiated impacts of climate change with respect to food security, health, livelihoods and even the deterioration of human rights, including sexual and reproductive health rights, making women the ones to pay the highest price.
we must recognise that gender-responsive climate action goes hand-in-hand with the just transition by promoting inclusive opportunities for all in the green economy.
the freedom to move and reside within the european union is one of the most important foundations of citizenship, and its main beneficiaries are the tourism and transport ecosystem and its core of small and medium-sized enterprises, which have been particularly affected by the restrictions related to the covid pandemic.
at the same time, it must be borne in mind that european businesses and industry will need the resources and time to implement the new ambitious requirements in an effective, appropriate and sustainable way.
and in this way we can send a clear signal of uncompromising defence of the rule of law, democratic elections and the need to bring stability to the country and peace to the sahel region, which has been living in an environment of instability and a constant terrorist threat.
the value of ireland’s food energy net importing calories has at times exceeded the equivalent of the calorie intake of two and a half million people.
the commission and the member states have several measures in our respective toolboxes, and the commission will closely monitor the evolvement of energy, commodity and food prices in the coming months.
for six months now, energy prices have been soaring, businesses have been closing, waiting for better times, and there's been no response from the commission.
(applause)we need to redouble our efforts to diversify our energy systems towards a europe that is no longer at the behest of autocrats.
this will put our energy security on a stronger footing.
instead, our rights to develop and to be a democratic state that chooses its own path has been completely laid waste by a country that doesn’t respect international law or international principles, that disdains territorial integrity and sovereignty.
the european council, in the coming weeks, will adopt the strategic compass and, with the invasion of ukraine by russia, we must amplify our reflection, adjust our means and anticipate our responses because one of the lessons that we have to learn from the invasion of ukraine is that, more than ever, europe must think strategically about itself, its environment and the world.
i am thinking first and foremost about our energy security.
because every kilowatt—hour of electricity europe generates from solar, wind, hydropower or biomass reduces our dependency on russian gas and other energy sources.
and the 'kiev moment' also shows that we need to put the policy areas we have to discuss here in the european parliament on the back burner: energy policy, as already mentioned by ursula von der leyen, the eu needs to accelerate the green deal and to conclude new international partnerships and energy trade agreements.
only with courage and sacrifice will we achieve energy autonomy to subdue putin.
our unwavering commitment to a world energy order based on renewable energy in the long term must be complemented by the creation of strategic gas reserves in the short term.
ever since it was started, the european project was – and remains – a peace project, so that the rule of brute force be replaced by the rule of law and so that democracy, dialogue, compromise and cooperation across national borders provide the best basis for shared and sustainable prosperity.
we know that resuming the diplomatic dialogue with your country is the only path to sustainable peace on our continent, but this can only happen if the aggression stops.
the second must be for energy independence.
indeed, our massive dependence on russia for raw materials and energy is a primary reason for europe’s lack of determination to deter the russian regime up until now.
we say that energy independence is the key for the eu to become a respected geopolitical player, and that will never be achieved by putting gas and nuclear at the heart of our energy strategy.
as the president said, only renewables and energy efficiency can give us the strategic autonomy we seek.
it is not just for the climate that we must accelerate the energy transition.
so let's try to analyze them, these errors: we have talked many times - and some of them have been highlighted by speakers before me - about our dependence on russia for energy, gas, oil, raw materials, as a market for our products.
but this addiction was our political choice: it was our choice not to exploit our energy resources and then buy them from russia or other countries.
you see, europe is not an energy-poor country: it has decided to be an energy-poor country.
let's launch a big investment plan for climate and energy security, to put renewable energy at the heart of our package, because it is energy for peace, and to get out of energy dependencies and political complacency that kill democracy and kill the climate.
and today too, we need the truth to achieve the greatness of peace: this is the truth of the ukrainian people, who heroically resisted, together with president zelensky; the truth of a europe that is finally committed to its political, energy and defence sovereignty and is not afraid to make sacrifices to find a single voice to stop the war and save human lives because, first of all, there are the victims, the dead in ukraine, the refugees to be welcomed, the brave russians who do not want this militaristic delirium of putin, knowing that every people, starting with the ukrainian, must be free to self-determination without something bad happening if they try to decide their own future.
i hope it doesn't end with western countries declaring, for example, that they need to become energy independent from russia.
hopefully, the doubts have finally been dispelled as to whose criminal plans are sponsored by the purchase of russian gas, and the need for a deliberate diversification of energy sources is a strategic imperative for the entire european union.
we cannot exclude a full-scale online attack on critical european infrastructure – energy, financial, defence, transport and telecommunications – aiming to wreak havoc and kill.
are we ready to protect our power plants and energy transmission network, our banking or transport navigation systems from an complex outright cyberattack?
then we can break our energy dependency on russia.
we should not only start the process of integrating ukraine into the european union, but also redefine europe's energy policy.
they should therefore be able to operate in an environment where their own fundamental rights are fully respected.
as the un recently recognised, a vibrant civic space requires an environment that is open, safe and free from any acts of intimidation, harassment and reprisals.
putin is destroying cities and villages, destabilizing the entire european union energy.
the priority is to get 700 billion zlotys for the modernization of poland, including the modernization of the polish energy sector.
it's time to accelerate the green transition, to fit for 65, not because climate catastrophe is accelerating, but also because rapid transformation is the guarantee of our security and independence.
we are at war on our continent, in europe, and we need to make decisions quickly, decisively and, above all, effectively on energy security.
it is good that lessons are being learned from past mistakes, but we must be aware, ladies and gentlemen, that renewable energy, green energy, the green deal, the fit for 55 project will not solve the problem of energy security.
today we are in a special time and special decisions are needed, and so a revision of the existing energy plans here in the european union.
it's a green energy source, too, of course.
this is the energy mix that will keep us safe.
fit for 55 will lead to even greater energy poverty for europeans.
we need not convince ourselves that this is a historic and unique time and we need to tell ourselves that our energy system does not create security in europe for our citizens and our economy.
the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states to enable them to assess the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment in the union.
these words give hope that the european commission is ripe for an energy policy based on facts, not ideology.
it's time to really revise climate policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the increase in the price of energy has obviously put a strain on the stability of our economic system, but the large countries of the european union must make a serious mea culpa.
we have 185 billion cubic meters of russian gas in our energy package, obviously something, some calculation we've got wrong.
the willingness to redefine energy price mechanisms: one of the most delicate issues.
we must learn not to fall into the grave contradictions which have hitherto seen us as protagonists: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on energy, research and technology.
the commission's package gives us hope of a renewed capacity of the european union to have a european energy policy.
far from falling into the contradictions of those who say that each country must go its own way in the face of this crisis, the alternative to a european energy unit would be the strange idea, which some are beginning to propose, of resorting to the deindustrialization of our continent in order to consume less energy.
let us not do any of this and call on europe again because the price of energy... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. chairman, please!
so a short but very specific question to the commissioner: at what political stage is the construction of a common european energy union?
and it is clear as day that without energy sovereignty and without stable energy prices there is no development and no progress.
for that, we need a whole new approach to energy policy, and for that, we need a sixth gear.
we need to accelerate the transition to renewable energy, diversify our sources of supply, better manage strategic stocks and invest in building europe's energy infrastructure and interconnections.
commissioner, can you tell the citizens from this podium today that europe has a solution to this energy crisis and that it has a vision to protect citizens and provide them with affordable energy?
we are putting all of our efforts into reducing the burden of higher energy prices on our eu citizens.
today’s communication responds strongly to both the rise in energy prices and the volatile situation in ukraine.
it is both political and operational in its nature, and it sets out our plan for the upcoming winter of 2022 and in the medium to long-term it outlines our strategy to decrease our dependence on russia, and this will require a push in three main areas: diversifying fossil fuel supply away from russia, accelerating the clean energy transition and redoubling our efforts to be energy efficient.
the war has caused untold security risks, humanitarian losses and has also deepened europe's energy crisis.
we need to secure europe's energy supply to keep our economies and societies running.
to do that, we need all the reliable sources of energy, including nuclear power.
we also need to protect all european citizens from the effects of soaring energy prices.
we need stable and diversified energy sources, and the phase-out of coal mines and coal-fired power stations is a serious danger for the eu.
with the current gas problems, climate policy must be relegated to the background.
i call for a review of the energy policy.
we need more women representatives so that the gender perspective is present, whether we are talking about digital energy, the environment, the internal market, agriculture or transport.
it's in line with the sustainable development goals, but it's also in line with the civilization.
the annual growth analysis for 2022 indicates the need to further enhance macroeconomic stability, and therefore economic policy coordination in the eu should serve sustainable and balanced economic growth.
in this context, the green and digital transformation must be a real support for it, while the current union climate policy is very costly and hurts the development potential of countries such as poland.
in the long term, the european union will only be able to play its role in a new global security architecture in a credible way if it is self-sufficient in energy.
renewable energies must now be developed, and there is a need for sustainable european food sovereignty, autonomy and public control in critical infrastructure such as the semiconductor industry, health care and public services.
that is why the policy of soft power, the policy of subordinating security, including energy security, to the interests of individual states, today ends in barbarism and the murder of the civilian population in ukraine.
the world economic forum estimates that to accelerate the transition to a low-carbon economy, global battery production needs to increase by a factor of 19. the production and use of batteries and the disposal of waste batteries are cross-cutting issues that affect many policy areas.
the report on batteries and spent batteries is a document that should take into account the economic and environmental conditions of all member states.
first, for a few weeks, months, we have a changed world -- not just a war that brings death and exacerbates the economic crisis, but we have an energy crisis.
i want to remind you that lithium has increased fivefold in one year, that lithium mining is causing destruction - not just deforestation, but air pollution.
the next item is the report by mrs grace o'sullivan, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on a general union environmental action programme for 2030 (com (2020) 0652 - c9-0329/2020 - 2020/0300 (cod)) (a9-0203/2021).
the 8th environmental framework plan to 2030 is a policy objective.
these changing energy prices, changing fuel prices - he's going to have to bear the cost.
in times of dramatic economic crisis, energy crisis, war with ukraine absolutely and in no way can you withdraw from subsidies for everything that is mining.
the overall objective of the eu's eighth environment action programme is to accelerate the transition of the european union to a climate-neutral economy.
in poland, my country, whose energy economy is largely based on fossil fuels, one of the sensitive points of this programme is the provisions on the withdrawal of environmentally harmful subsidies, including for fossil fuels.
the ecr will vote against the eu's environmental action programme because, firstly, it calls for the withdrawal of subsidies for fossil fuels, which would be extremely time-consuming and costly to replace with alternative energy sources, and is therefore a burdensome requirement that is impossible to achieve in the short term, especially now during war.
third, the scheme is being introduced in the context of an unprecedented energy crisis, but it does not address the issue of energy poverty.
fourthly, the action programme does not take the opportunity to include carbon sinks, which have a high potential in agriculture, where co2 is absorbed by the soil.
the review of the strategy for 2021-2027 is a unique opportunity to set priorities and actions for the coming years, not only for the european union after the pandemic, but also in the light of changes in the labour market related to the digital transformation, the ecological transformation.
the most important are long working hours, lack of work-life balance, lack of access to appropriate equipment or working environment conditions.
because work in the eu must take place in a healthy and safe working environment.
without the efforts of everyone, we would not have had algorithms, women in the workforce, covid, the right to be offline, asbestos, climate change, stress, etc.
it will be a comprehensive report which will make a great difference to the working environment of europe's workers.
surging energy prices are one of the most visible consequences.
– madam president, the european union has a very clear position regarding the key role of cultural heritage in promoting peace, democracy and sustainable development.
you can vote until 3 p.m. the results of the second round of voting will be announced at 4 p.m. the commission will be presenting a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the context of the implementation of the new rules.
we provide support to member states in their work to meet the united nations sustainable development goals and world health organization targets.
it must be based on mutual trust, solidarity, shared responsibility between member states and institutions alike, all to ensure sustainable and responsible migration policy, security, border management, increasing the confidence of our citizens in the ability to join forces at eu level.
just last week we continued our support in the energy sector by connecting ukraine and moldova to our european electricity grid.
we are stopping new european investment across russia’s energy sector because we should not be reinforcing the energy dependency that we want to put behind us.
and i’m not just talking about security in military terms, but also energy security and even food security are at stake.
so let me start with energy.
energy policy is also security policy, and that’s why the commission has proposed measures that would allow us to significantly reduce our gas imports from russia.
first, by fast—tracking renewable projects, this is a strategic investment in our security, including hydrogen and biogas.
second, by speeding up investment in energy efficiency everyone can contribute in reducing our dependency on russian gas.
in that spirit, we have just presented proposals to jointly tackle one of our root causes of the energy crisis, and these are the high and volatile gas prices.
finally, the effects of the russian war go beyond energy, of course.
but if we want to resist and support the admirable ukrainian resistance, we must direct all our efforts on two fronts: maintaining pressure on putin and strengthening the european union's strategic autonomy in energy and defence.
sanctions have been up to the moment, but we must - and can - do much more: cut off russia's access to cryptocurrency exchanges, pursue tax havens that protect sanctioned oligarchs, further isolate russian banks and energy giants, and end our dependence on kremlin gas and oil.
the weakness of our energy system was always a known truth that the war in russia has laid bare.
we must now tackle the challenges we face: freeing ourselves from energy dependence on russia, speeding up the energy transition as much as possible and managing prices.
the creation of strategic reserves and joint purchasing would also increase our energy resilience.
and, if we really want to realize our strategic autonomy and lead a global transition, we need to accelerate the pace of renewable energy deployment.
the issue of energy costs, because we know, and we have said this from the beginning, that the choices we are making to support the ukrainian people and to counter russia in its actions have a cost to us, have a cost to our citizens, and we must do everything possible so that, after already two years of a dramatic pandemic, these costs do not fall on the shoulders of the weakest.
but it is also 28 days since our continent rediscovered the climate of the cold war that characterized the last century.
the decisions to be taken in the fields of agriculture and energy will be crucial.
madam president, the brutal invasion of ukraine by the putin regime requires a common, strong, united european response at all levels: economic and energy.
we must do the same with the energy crisis.
the international energy agency estimates that the energy companies' surplus, for 2022 alone, is 200 billion.
so we need taxation and a cap on these surpluses to support households and businesses; a common european supply of lng and hydrogen gas; accelerated investment in renewable energy sources and public funds; a common european intervention against excessive profits at wholesale and retail prices and for the economy.
this war is showing the need to accelerate on our strategic autonomy, reducing energy dependence, strengthening our common defense capability, speaking with one voice in foreign policy, building a stronger european economic foundation.
but action must now follow, starting from the next council meeting, from the response to the energy crisis, with strong investment in renewable sources, with common gas purchasing stocks to reduce dependence on russian supplies already this year, already now, and with the introduction of a european ceiling on gas prices, to calm down electricity prices now and in the future and to avoid the collapse of households and businesses.
second, increase the pressure on the kremlin and its entourage, through new sanctions – which, yes, have to include energy – now.
as we build a long-term strategy for our autonomy, we must have the courage to recognize that the various pre-war sustainability strategies in ukraine must be contextualized.
no one wants to give up a more sustainable and environmentally friendly agriculture, but we must be pragmatic.
environmental sustainability cannot be separated from economic sustainability if we want to make our companies more competitive in order to achieve the result we have set as our ambition and want to achieve.
even for the more commercially independent, the rise in global energy and food prices will push citizens over the edge.
in europe, one of the most food-secure regions in the world, it’s about balancing, on the one hand, the need to increase production, while retaining our gains on climate targets.
the russian aggression on february 27th shattered the european dream that our security would be provided by nato and the united states, that we would have energy security guaranteed by russia, and also in food security, which is better provided than the first two, we see how we are dependent on the market of ukraine and also russia.
we've seen huge increases in prices before this war, on the one hand, for energy, and then for fertilizer, and then there's a shortage of fertilizer, so food security has been threatened before.
but other elements of the strategy, i strongly believe, have a very positive impact on food security: coal farming and big plans to develop it, supporting farmers in practices that are good for the environment, but also good for the soil, good for the climate - that is, a positive impact on food security - or short supply chains, which have a very positive impact on food security, are very important for this security, or precision agriculture, which has an absolutely positive impact on food security.
we have not fully realized until now that, like defence policy, like energy policy, and perhaps in some elements even more so, we cannot live without food and we must treat this policy as such.
i believe that there is no contradiction, as has been said by several speakers, between this nurturing function and an agricultural policy which obviously contributes to the ecological transition.
farmers are the first actors in the fight against climate change, and i believe that there is no european choice to be made between these two imperatives.
in the face of rising energy, raw material, fertiliser and feed prices, our farmers need additional support to mitigate the impact on the sectors most affected and to offset the increase in their production costs.
a pseudo-ecological obscurantism would like to ban them on the grounds that they are too consumerist.
it is strange that they don't think of banning youtube and other popular and energy-intensive social networks.
dlt offers, for example, the opportunity to reimagine clearing and settlement in a true, borderless 24—7 operating environment, providing access to securities and cash pools to facilitate real—time settlements, delivering at near—100% settlement rates.
because these technologies, these digital currencies, have a brutal energy consumption; these technologies are being used to launder capital, to launder capital movements.
the work of this house also greatly contributed to making this regulation more sustainable for telecom operators by providing a path for reduction of the caps for prices at wholesale level while still ensuring cost recovery.
the union must urgently deploy this same regulatory capacity in other sectors, such as energy, whose market needs further integration.
the eu first reduced roaming charges in 2007 and then abolished them for consumers in 2017. five years after the adoption of the legislation, we will extend this measure and further reduce the burden on mobile operators to ensure that roaming regulation remains sustainable.
it will also provide for a further push in some key reform areas, such as good governance, the fight against systemic corruption, the rule of law and energy sector reforms.
this, of course, is only one of the many assistance programmes the eu will, is and should be providing to safeguard the stability of moldova and help to tackle the current energy crisis, post-pandemic economic recovery and the negative effects of the unfolding security crisis.
in the name of globalism and free competition, you have sold off all our strategic businesses: the medical sector, as we saw during the pandemic, but also the energy, military and digital sectors.
nuclear energy is the greenest, cheapest and most self-sustaining energy available.
the systematic sabotage of the eu energy market, including the attempts to dismantle edf, is a strategic, economic and political suicide.
we are accelerating the energy transition to deprive putin's war machine of the union's money for any fuel.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called upon by history to make a great leap in the quality of our energy policy in order to build the energy union that was already envisaged.
the first is that we have an emergency to deal with: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the cost of energy, which threatens to put our production systems and our households out of business, and we must prepare for the coming winter.
the second consideration is that it is clear that the transition must be accelerated as much as possible, but to do this we must abandon ideological approaches and then embark on the major processes of renewable energy and energy efficiency infrastructure on the one hand and on the other hand ensure the diversification of the supply of the fossil fuels we still need.
finally, the third consideration: in recent years, we have chosen the green deal as an environmental goal, that's true.
however, i am concerned by the commission's proposal in the latest gas package to exclude the possibility of continuing to apply tariff reductions to transmission tariffs at lng exit points while proposing the possibility of granting discounts on entries from installations producing and storing renewable and low-carbon gases.
lng terminals are a strategic infrastructure for energy security and diversification of supply sources, as proven by the current russian aggression.
it is essential to balance climate objectives with current challenges.
the key task should be to promote diversification and own sources, not discriminating between different energy sources.
that should be the most important task for us today to achieve our energy goals.
but the commission's proposals fail in the main: energy is still treated as a commodity and not as a duty, and its price is still fixed on the stock exchange.
defending energy profits, which in the first half of 2021 alone were over 4 billion, remains more important to the commission than defending people.
we need an energy system that is socially and environmentally fair, that promotes energy independence and sovereignty and that stops failing those who need it most.
energy poverty exists because policy has failed.
however, energy prices are soaring and that is why we need immediate, urgent measures.
the regulation of gas and electricity prices in the member states and the taxation of the profits of energy companies are unfortunately not enough.
to continue to defend our values with heavy sanctions against russia, we must maintain the cohesion of our societies, push prices now, accelerate the deployment of renewable sources, go deep into building upgrades, sustainable transport.
from the very first day, i said that we need to have two windows: one for speeding up the transition to a low carbon economy, the other to find bridging solutions for the next three, five, seven years.
and what about the co2 emissions in europe during the war, when you couldn't stop the war?
we have a situation where on one side we have war, on the other side we have an energy revolution, and this energy revolution in the form of renewable energy has not been accepted by society.
different countries are in different situations, some countries need more time to move towards renewable energy, but the european union has not given and is not giving that time.
it's access to different energy sources, which is simply the decentralization of energy supply.
on the other hand, energy security there is a need to create a durable legal framework for investment in different energy sources for the european union.
the commission has repeatedly warned against depending on russian energy supplies.
it must also change the european union and its energy policy to ensure the european union's energy sovereignty.
we have to be open to new technologies, global technologies that capture carbon, absorb carbon.
all the documents must be centred around new models of diversification, storage, capture, saving and ensuring low energy prices.
freedom is not cheap, freedom costs, too, and perhaps especially energy freedom, but peace is priceless.
a common energy union must be created the essence of solidarity and supporting each other in these difficult times to prevent another world war, but also climate catastrophe.
the concern and concern for the climate, for the clean air we all breathe, and for the protection of the biodiversity of our planet is something that unites us all in this room.
however, we should not forget that climate protection and related activities must not lead to the deindustrialisation of europe and the loss of competitiveness of european industry.
recent events russia's aggression against ukraine have highlighted europe's dependence on russian energy imports.
this is therefore a unique moment in which the european union, in order to preserve its energy independence and to ensure the energy security of its citizens, should, along with the development of renewable energy sources (which is of course also not subject to discussion), focus on promoting the technologies and raw materials at its disposal.
the ipcc report indicates that massive emissions reductions are needed to avoid further global warming.
so the question is: how do we as the european union, how do we as europeans want to convince the big economies of the world that are by far the biggest contributors to co2, like china, brazil, india, to also do something to fight climate change?
on february 24th, a lot of things changed, but on february 24th, the problems of climate change and the need for a just energy transition did not end.
the un experts in the ipcc report they analyzed are talking out loud about the red alert, that we are on the verge of a climate catastrophe.
and believe me, people feel it and they know it, but they need sensible climate policies and new jobs.
renewable energy yes, we support it because we all want to live in a clean environment, we all want to drink clean water, we all want to breathe clean air, and we will measure and support all actions in this direction.
but my question is this, mr president: will renewable energy sources, these clean sources, really ensure the energy security of the european union?
will we be able to compete with these renewables and the energy system with china and america?
first of all, i want to report about a meeting i had last week in stockholm with representatives of climate organisations, nature protection organisations, forestry organisations, academia, and for the first time, all of them around the table – and you know how thorny the discussions have been on forestry with sweden and finland – for the first time, everyone around the table said the urgency now is so great that we will all get out of the trenches.
secondly, in reaction to bas eickhout; yes, we need to speed up the energy transition and we will come with our repowereu proposals to make that happen.
and i also say we need... because we don’t have our own oil, we have very little of our own gas, we certainly can’t rely on coal anymore for very long, so the only solution to have our own energy is to have renewable energy.
if the question is, can we be competitive with renewable energy?
if we couldn’t, why then are china and the us investing so massively, massively in renewable energy today?
prolonging their connection to coal is just a waste of their time, an attack on their health and a waste of taxpayers’ money.
so here i believe that this transition should be also defended as not just the right thing to do because of our climate, but also the right thing to do because of our economy.
the report we are discussing today is yet another warning about the consequences of inaction on man-made climate change.
the grave threat to human well-being and the health of our planet does not allow us to waste any more time on the goal of reducing emissions and curbing global warming.
cascading impacts caused by extreme natural events further highlight future risks and the interaction between climate, ecosystem and biodiversity protection, access to natural resources, urban patterns, economics, social inequalities, transport systems and energy sources.
any delay in the path of green transition towards sustainable and climate-neutral development risks being irreversible damage.
the report also provides information on the impact of climate change on the global economy, including the impact of climate change on the global economy.
up to 3.6 billion people live in environments that are highly vulnerable to climate change, and current types of unsustainable development are increasing the exposure of ecosystems and people to climate risks.
one in three people are exposed to deadly heat stress, a billion people living in coastal areas will be exposed to flooding by 2050. the wrong answers to the challenge of tackling climate change can also generate difficult issues of vulnerability, exposure and risks that could be difficult to correct.
the climate crisis is inseparable from the biodiversity crisis and the crises caused by the poverty and inequality suffered by billions of people.
political commitment, improvement of the institutional framework, adequate financial resources together with continuous monitoring and evaluation of measures selected on the basis of the best available scientific knowledge at the time and put into practice are essential for the adaptation process and achieving climate resilience.
climate change is happening faster than expected, and without decisive action, the social, environmental, economic and political consequences will be catastrophic and irreversible.
to keep global warming to 1.5 degrees celsius or less, we need immediate and deep reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, and therefore swift and bold policy decisions.
the commission continues to take hard data on the causes of climate change lightly.
it is essential that the commission takes immediate action to review the 'fit for 55' target and adopt a new 'fit for 65' climate regulation package.
to this end, actions should be implemented that will accelerate not only the green energy transition but also the transition to a sustainable, ethical, plant-based food system.
it's important that the changes affect energy, transportation and agriculture.
fit for 65 is also about the eu's independence from gas and coal supplies from states that violate human rights and about food independence based on the knowledge of scientists and the demands of climate activists.
recently, an open letter on the subject, prepared by green rev institute, democracy action and future food 4 climate, was signed by 66 representatives of civil society organizations and 20 scientists from around the world.
with war instability, inflation and energy prices going through the roof, smes are the weak link of the economy.
with putin’s war around the corner, as well as difficulties for our economies caused by the conflict and the pandemics, we need unity as well as fair taxation for a sustainable recovery.
i'm asking the commission to investigate whether russia, through companies with russian capital, has been manipulating the price of carbon dioxide emission allowances, causing a sharp increase in the price of these allowances a few months ago.
energy prices are high, we don't see any energy security, which is absolutely critical in the context of war, and it's also not really related to decarbonization.
this is not the way, first of all, to transparency, to energy security, and it's certainly not the way to climate protection.
they are essential for the smooth integration of children and young people fleeing ukraine into their new environment.
it will also allow them to adapt better to their new environment and to build links in the countries that host them.
the war in ukraine shows very clearly that naivety when it comes to energy security brings disaster.
it's not the energy sources, it's not the fossil resources that are the problem, it's that the european union, the individual member states, have given the field to putin at their own request.
you have got rid of the state, and in this house you have got rid of these decisions, your own resources, you have underestimated the energy security of europe, and putin has been allowed to enter this place.
this regulation is a compromise and like any compromise it does not meet everyone's expectations, but it is a step in the right direction, because it will make it possible to think that this discussion about energy security, about making europeans safe and getting rid of this dependence on russia, is possible.
in view of the war in ukraine, poland is introducing the fourth pillar of energy sovereignty in its energy policy until 2040, the main objective of which is to rapidly decouple the national economy from imported fossil fuels and derivatives from russia.
and i have to say, i was also ashamed in this room after hearing from one of my colleagues in the id faction that this behavior belongs to the cultural environment of afghanistan and that we should tolerate it.
we agreed with the chinese leadership on the importance of cooperation on climate and environment, on biodiversity, and agreed that the high level dialogue on environment and climate will continue through regular meetings.
we made it clear, too, that china needs to address longstanding difficulties related to market access and investment environment and urged china to find concrete solutions to some of these problems at the next high level trade and economic dialogue.
we stated our readiness to cooperate in research and innovation, in common priority areas like agriculture, biotechnology, climate change, biodiversity, but arguing for our reciprocal relationship.
we believed we could influence china into helping us to end the war in ukraine, resolve our current trade dispute and jointly address major environmental and health challenges.
modern civic education must also raise awareness of the ecological transformation and digitalisation, and take into account the need to act responsibly towards the planet.
but i am resolutely opposed to the call - which we have here - for a total embargo on energy from russia at this time.
and that's why the ukrainians are fighting for us, and we can't waste any time and we have to be united, decisive, very determined to help the ukrainians, but also to restore peace and order.
our citizens also carry the financial burden, so we need a european solidarity mechanism that will address their economic and social consequences and pave the way toward energy independence.
and then there's the energy issue.
no one is helped when production is interrupted, when factories are turned into scrap because glass or aluminium factories need a continuous supply of energy.
my concern is the possible reaction of people caught between rising energy prices and worries about jobs.
the abandonment of gas imports from russia is right, and it must be prepared by increasing the european union's resilience - that is, by expanding renewable energy rapidly and on a continental basis.
this means that we in the member states of the european union are doing our homework and closing the gaps in infrastructure to be able to distribute existing energy better among the member states.
and that means diversifying energy imports.
my colleagues here today have spoken a great deal about energy sanctions.
the energy bill must be reduced urgently and in this respect the recent european summit was a turning point in the union's energy policy.
i am glad that the commission and the member states are gradually taking up the proposals of the spanish government to achieve an energy market reform that moves towards a true energy union, clean and affordable for all.
this war would not have happened if it had not been for nord stream 1 and 2, if it had not been for the dependence on russian energy supplies.
question: what mechanism will the european commission use to ensure that all areas of the european union have equal access to the programme's funds and to ensure the sustainable development of the european union, the 13 countries of central and eastern europe and poland?
in the 21st century, germany and russia built a gas pipeline over the heads of poles and slavs and forced everyone to buy their gas through climate policy, and they also claim that poles in the courts cannot do what germans do at home because they have a worse tradition and culture.
and to blame poland and hungary right now, when in this room, putin's influence was growing through misguided climate policy, through making us dependent on russian gas.
because here, when our energy was banned, it was russian gas that was helped, and everyone knows that.
today, in wartime, at the borders of the european union, the romanian authorities have once again demonstrated their ability to manage thousands of refugees on a daily basis, preserving the sustainability of the european union.
in times of covid, rising energy prices and the war that putin has started, many europeans already have a problem with buying cheaper appliances and access to parts.
we need energy transformation and financial help for energy transformation.
that we need energy security, including a gas union, purchasing of gas together.
and what we need right now is not more phone calls to putin, but more decisive action to increase our ability to prevent hybrid threats from russia in areas such as state terrorism, cyberattacks, and energy security.
let's not be afraid of that, we need to cut off our energy from russia, even though some countries are very dependent on them, including my country, slovakia, and i understand those concerns.
but the solution is in a common european approach, in building an energy union, in coordinating stocks in common purchases.
i appeal to every decision-maker in europe to look at the long arc of history and put an end to russian energy imports.
the increase in energy prices also affects the food market.
the commissioner for climate action, timmermans, has made a very unreasonable assessment of the fact that there is no food crisis in the eu and that there will be no food crisis in the eu.
the best remedy for the crisis is to take care of the position of the producers of food and energy.
we need to accelerate climate action, but we also need to rationalise the way in which the eu produces the cleanest food and the most zero-emission energy in the world.
in addition to further sanctions, we must increase the tax burden on energy imports from russia, while helping those most in need.
once again, this shows that the eu needs to diversify its supply, reduce its energy consumption and move away from its current climate policy.
at the same time, i cannot agree with the elements of the report on green transition paragraphs 47 and 49, in particular the reference to the european parliament resolution of 20 october 2021 on state aid for climate-related purposes.
forests are essential to regulate the climate and safeguard europe’s biodiversity.
that means being in full respect also of our european environmental legislation.
in that case, they must first prove there are no alternatives and they must also compensate for the environmental impact.
so it is clear that under eu law we can protect both the environment and public safety.
that is why, in line with our commitment made at the envi committee meeting on 21 april, the commission has sent a letter to the polish authorities asking about the compliance of this project with eu environmental legislation.
in the case of border protection, such costs may include, for example, environmental interference.
but the fundamental question is whether the planned construction of a wall on the border with belarus, with all its controversies, including the interference with the precious natural environment, and the ambiguities, including the financial ones, will deter potential refugees?
a wall is being built in the heart of the natura 2020 site, which will cause irreversible changes to the environment by destroying the migratory routes of protected animals.
but what is maybe the worst is that the european commission, in which we trust and which we want to be strong and fulfil its duty, namely to be the guardian of the treaties and our laws in the european union, doesn’t fulfil its duties, and there are i don’t know how many laws being broken, environmental laws that are being broken now through the construction of this horrible, useless, as you have said, wall: the habitats directive, birds directive, charter of human rights, articles 18 to 21, treaty on the eu, of course, article 2, etc.
and in addition to that, apart from this destruction, the horrible symbolic meaning of walls in europe in the 21st century, the non-acting of the european commission – we write letters, we never receive answers, the last letter i signed was written two months ago, i never received any answer – in addition to that, it’s utterly useless because it is so miserably built this wall that it destroys the environment but people dig holes underneath and they managed to come and escape their misery, maybe, maybe thank god.
the project was not even assessed for its impact on the natural environment of the białowieża forest, in breach of article 6 (3) of the habitats directive.
the białowieża forest is an irreplaceable area for biodiversity conservation, due to its size, protection status and substantially undisturbed nature.
steel, concrete and razor wire will block this key ecological corridor.
the whole procedure is under the absolute supervision of the environmental services, who monitor this building every day, do analysis every day.
i didn't hear the alarm, how it's destroying the environment and how it's making wars financially possible.
– madam president, honourable members, the commission calls for full compliance with the eu environmental legislation to protect the exceptional natural value of the białowieża forest.
the commission has sent a letter and asked the polish authorities about the compliance of this project with eu environmental legislation, and we will keep the european parliament informed.
legitimate concerns about the preservation of biodiversity, the environment and forest resources cannot be used as a pretext for harpooning poland, which is facing a major wave of migration.
has the european parliament debated the environmental impact of these buildings in these countries ?
this wall, which is intended to effectively divide the białowieża forest in half, will cause damage to the environment and habitats of protected species: wolf, lynx and bison, which extend beyond poland's borders.
the wall also threatens the bialowieza forest's continued unesco world heritage status, as it will have a negative impact on the entire forest ecosystem and many key natural processes.
we must understand belarus has now become putin’s pawn in his efforts to target the eu, whether as a gateway for artificial mass migration, disinformation, energy manipulation, cyberattacks or illegal smuggling.
we therefore welcome the three commission initiatives to develop by 2025 a european approach to micro-experience, personalised training accounts and learning for environmental sustainability in the european education area.
they will help to expand learning opportunities, deepen mutual recognition, and create links with the digital and ecological transformation.
mr president, madam commissioner, the unilateral cut-off of gas supplies from russia to bulgaria and poland is part of russia's military aggression in ukraine and a testament to the dimensions of the hostile action against europe in terms of undermining europe's energy security and independence.
are they prepared to counter and drive a package of measures to compensate for the interruption of supplies, accelerate alternative supplies, fill up gas storage, develop a national energy mix with a focus on renewable energy and hydrogen, urgent investments in energy efficiency, explore the possibility of extracting gas within national borders?
the cutting off of gas supplies to our countries is a shock to households and businesses, but the complete break from our dependence on russian energy supplies is also an opportunity.
we all see that russia is not only fighting a war in ukraine, but also a hybrid war, an energy war with the countries of the european union.
the answer should be to establish a true energy community.
i thank the commission for creating the energy platform and i call for the immediate creation of a common mechanism for the purchase of energy resources, as has been done for the purchase of vaccines.
joint purchasing will ensure lower fuel prices, diversify supplies and increase europe's energy security.
today we're talking about the energy crisis in the context of russia's aggression against ukraine.
because if we're just talking about increasing renewable energy, why don't we understand that if it's that simple?
i think we should ask ourselves: what climate package with all the legislation is so good for europe and builds our energy future, but why is it not building energy security for us and for the young and the current generations today?
this needs to be better diagnosed and decided so that countries can propose what they have the potential for and what they want to build energy security on first, to do in the bypass time, to develop new technologies and power in renewable energy.
one of the things that we still have to deal with and we have to overcome is energy nationalism.
the common responsibility for the citizens of the union and their energy security is as important as the common market.
the energy union must finally become a reality.
the vast majority of member states have looked at energy security issues through the lens of their borders, their economic and financial interests.
the energy union, energy diversification and solidarity are the cornerstones of a stronger, safer and more integrated europe.
i hope that the individual countries will not seek an easier way to circumvent the embargo, to obtain raw materials more easily, in contradiction to what is in the interests of our common security, which is to move away from russian energy sources.
of course, in addition to the urgent actions that are so necessary and desirable, we need, in my opinion, to rethink the long-term goals for the energy future, the climate packages, those often unrealistic assumptions that the current energy crisis is exposing.
the example of my country's actions clearly shows that consistent investment in the diversification of energy sources results in greater security for both my country and the region.
de-dependence from russian energy sources is not only necessary, but possible.
what we need to do is turn back to nuclear energy, which is clean, sensible and safe.
we know the negative impact of pesticides on human and animal health, the environment and biodiversity.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
as rapporteur for the itre committee, i must stress the need to strike the right balance between the european union's climate objectives and the needs of european industry and ordinary citizens.
remember, we have war in ukraine, high inflation and record high energy prices.
the flight of emissions, the exodus of european producers to third countries, will only exacerbate this.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
and most of you are aware of this, but we are still working on solutions that will only deepen energy poverty and poverty in europe and push the competitiveness of the european economy to the sidelines.
we must take care of the climate, we must change the european energy system, but ladies and gentlemen, this is not the time, this is not the moment, and we must first of all adapt the instruments to the capabilities of the european people.
now, first of all, there is the war in ukraine and we have to take care of the security, including the energy security of europe.
now, the only thing that i would like to see more is to treat our industry as a partner, not as a criminal which is poisoning our environment.
this is obviously the logical solution in the face of the eu's drastically tightened climate policy.
you can't try to circumvent that unanimity by suggesting an environmental charge.
and yet we are dealing with a huge increase in the price of energy, including agricultural raw materials, so for example a drastic increase in the price of fertilizers, which translates into the price of food products, and thus inflation.
today we're discussing the key elements of the fit for 55 package: reform of the ets, the social climate fund to help those most at risk of energy exclusion, and finally the introduction of a carbon cap.
the now-expanding eu ets is europe’s flagship programme and perhaps the world’s sharpest climate tool to reduce emissions.
there will be many beautiful speeches here today, more of them and all about how we are so responsible to tackle the climate change.
look closely at it, because it will be the european masters on how we vote in europe for climate.
will the nice words in support the climate actually be worth anything when serious and concrete measures are on the table?
either we go faster than the commission when reducing our emissions, just as we did in the envi meeting of two weeks ago.
either we support the ets 2 – for buildings, transport, with massive social safeguards to save the social climate fund – or we throw both climate and energy poverty measures into the bin.
as this s&d shadow, i have three priorities: raise the ambition for climate, improve fairness to industry and the secure the social inclusion.
the envi outcome secured climate ambition by going faster in expanding ets to maritime, covering more emissions, more ships, eventually also removing the 50% rebate for the international shipping.
we improved fairness to industry by providing both sticks and carrots, by example by the stronger climate investment fund and – with our price cap, social climate fund preparation period for households entering into 2029, the energy price, emergency brake and the requirement for oil companies to pay their fair share –we safeguard the social dimension on the ets 2. the citizens are watching us tomorrow.
it is our parliament’s chance to deliver to climate, to deliver to the socially fair future, and to make sure that we are really proving that the speeches are more than that.
my question is this: because you represent the political environment, the left, you should be sensitive to social issues, to poverty issues, to the issues of threats, to the issues related to the fact that this package fit for 55 will divide society and will be very expensive.
and this is why i worked so hard together with the colleague to have a very balanced compromise where we are actually investing to make sure that more will go to the public, to transition to the future, to make sure that the social climate fund is helping the households to transition, to make sure that you actually can rebuild the homes and also in the traffic make it easier.
it is historic because, clearly, europe will not look like it does today, our daily lives will not look like they do today if we vote for this week's climate package.
we have in this package world firsts, for example the famous border carbon tax the border carbon adjustment mechanism.
we have been talking about this for 20 years, and we are finally going to do it, and we are the first area in the world to take such a decision, to put the climate issue in the commercial rules of the game, to ensure that those who import into europe from china, turkey or elsewhere pay exactly the same price for carbon as our manufacturers.
it's a question of fairness, it's a question of competitiveness, and, of course, it's a question of climate efficiency.
we are also on a climate justice date, and that is why, mr vice-president, we did not support - and this is the only point of disagreement we have with the commission's proposal, but it is a real point of disagreement - we did not support the proposal to put in place a carbon price for individuals on heating and car fuels.
moreover, the compromise we found in the committee on the environment will not be reopened.
so we are going to apply a higher carbon price to industry, a higher price to road transport, to heating commercial buildings, but not to individuals: that was a red line for us, and we got an agreement on that.
the last element is climate ambition.
as you said, mr timmermans, we must meet the objectives of the climate law.
and i see, when i look at all the amendments coming from the european right - not to mention, of course, those from the far right - all the amendments coming from the epp put together, that there is no longer any climate ambition, either for cars, for industry, for aviation or for shipping.
so i say to the european right: don't be afraid, don't be afraid to vote for the climate, stop being in the hands of the lobbies, and we will all build the future together.
so we have to do it with industry, but with industry that wants to go in this direction, that wants to invest in carbon-free solutions, invent zero-carbon industry, zero-carbon mobility.
i also note, because the lobbying has been extraordinarily intense in the european parliament in recent days, that there are those in a part of the industry who do not want to move, who do not want to move and who have not understood that a large part of tomorrow's competitiveness depends precisely on their ability to have zero-carbon technologies.
well, we will take our responsibility, partnering with progressive industry to move forward for the climate.
but as a matter of fact, it was your group and the s&d group that did not want to expand the ets to road transport and buildings at all – sectors where emissions are still growing.
how do you justify that to the environmental ngos and the young generation that want us to do more and expand the ets to those sectors?
by raising the decarbonisation thresholds on very short notice, europe is holding citizens and businesses hostage, and this at a very dangerous time of energy shortages and soaring prices.
and the social fund for the climate, a veritable firefighter's tool, will not be enough to cushion the shock.
it is urgent that the objectives, which are laudable in some respects, of course, can be achieved, those of the paris agreements, in these terms, otherwise the great economic disorder under way risks being as dangerous for europeans as the climate disorder.
he also doesn't see that in the climate law in the impact assessment we talked about the ets price at 60 euros in 2030. right now it's about seventy, eighty euros, and it was almost 100 euros.
notice that the ets, on which we build the whole climate policy, is speculative 70% of financial institutions are registered in tax havens and at the same time it is managed by the commission in a totally socialist way.
an example is the energy justice fund.
because we know that you are blocking the energy transition, and we also know that prime minister mateusz morawiecki has given a lot of money to the just transformation fund, which we negotiated in the itre committee.
member first of all that we have fulfilled all the commitments that were made in 2020. among other things, for renewable energy 16.1 renewable energy in the overall energy mix the target set has been met, for one.
second, we're systematically introducing all the mechanisms that are supposed to serve the environment, but also take care of the human being.
at the same time, money that is tied to the ets, among other things, is regularly allocated to support those who are in energy poverty, to heat upgrades and renewable energy.
we want to make the climate and energy transition, but we need to have the support to do it in a way that meets the targets we set.
it is therefore necessary to increase the resources that will make the energy transition realistic across the european union by increasing the modernisation fund or ensuring that all member states participate in the innovation fund.
the european parliament calls for the carbon leakage, which can occur in some southern european ports such as algeciras, to be taken into account, for an effective price control mechanism to be in place and, at the same time, for the continental islands and the outermost regions to be taken into account.
we also want to bring our imports and trade into line with environmental standards, thereby also genuinely protecting our industry and promoting the rest of the world on the green agenda, without forgetting the green dimension, which must be linked to the social dimension to be set up with the social climate fund.
we are now discussing the establishment of a social climate fund.
with the green deal, we promised to make europe the first climate-neutral continent by 2050. we have promised to work for a socially just energy transition.
the social climate fund stands for all these promises that we don't want to leave anyone behind in this necessary transformation process.
the link between emissions trading and the climate and social fund is essential.
the climate fund must benefit those who suffer most from rising prices and transformational change.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states.
unfortunately, the climate change we've caused could destroy it.
the ets, on which climate policy is built, is already a huge challenge.
meanwhile, the ec is proposing an extension of the ets and solutions that will deepen energy poverty and poverty in europe and weaken the competitiveness of the european economy.
for example, a trade system involving construction and road transport (brt) will increase energy poverty in the union; a co2-based border adjustment mechanism (cbam) with the elimination of free emission allowances in so-called sensitive industries will lead to the bankruptcy of companies and drastic price increases; a ban on the sale of fuel cars from 2035 and restrictions on fuel cars and their owners will be a death sentence for the mobility of europeans.
meanwhile, green policy is becoming increasingly indifferent to the union's energy security.
the climate law in article 2 clearly says: zero emissions by 2050 with absorption.
we need to support those who want to serve the climate by absorbing.
the land use regulation aims to strengthen the sector's contribution to increasing overall climate ambition.
this plan will support the polish people on their way to a more sustainable, digital and resilient future.
in addition, europe is facing unprecedented economic, food, energy and refugee crises.
she didn't stand up for our values, she can't fight climate disaster.
we are in a more complex security environment, where multipolarity could give way to increasing bipolarity in a context of rivalry and antagonism.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the security environment in europe fundamentally changed when russia started the illegal and brutal attack against ukraine.
when i started working on the report, there was a lot of evidence that its assumptions would be limited by those who want to allow putin to keep his face and win another deal with the russian energy giants.
parliament has said many times: let's stop this fragmentation, let's stop this waste of resources.
the most important thing, and i am glad that the european council has spoken about this, is food security, this is energy security.
abortion is always a very difficult decision for everyone - for the mother, for the environment, for the family.
we've spent a lot of time today voting on the fight against carbon emissions, and at the same time we're working with the largest economy in the world, which is one of the largest emitters of that carbon dioxide -- i'm thinking here of china.
but let us not waste this effort, this hard work that we have been doing for years.
and this is not the result of the cattle herders and farmers, this is not the result of climate change, but the result of hatred in the hearts of muslims, terrorists, the vile people of boko haram, who in the name of their insane ideology of faith murder other believers, in this case christians.
these are not the fruits of climate change, but the fruits of the hatred of muslim terrorists.
they demand an energy union.
it is not enough because europe lacks stable energy sources.
there are three stable sources of energy: coal, gas and atomic.
and we need to solve the energy crisis.
we must protect the climate, but we must also be aware that we must first of all think about the possibilities for europeans and their safety.
the report on the implementation of the sustainable development goals by the european union adopted by the envi and deve committees rightly draws attention to the negative impact of the crisis caused by the covid-19 pandemic and the war in ukraine on the implementation of the sustainable development goals.
first of all, we cannot achieve the sustainable development goals without stability in the world -- political and economic stability.
unemployment, inequality, poverty, hunger, all of these things combine to create conflict in many parts of the world, and they are holding us back from achieving the sustainable development goals.
a social and institutional partnership is needed to implement the sustainable development goals.
and all of this in the midst of the climate emergency, which is the biggest challenge we face as a humanity.
the sustainable development goals are not enough and their implementation is riddled with shortcomings.
to achieve the sustainable development goals, we need to focus on what i believe is the most important area of development that all the other goals depend on: access to water.
the achievement of the sustainable development goals is also linked to policy coherence for development.
given that every plan must allocate tens of percent of resources to energy and digital transformation, on the surface, it seems to be ushering our cities, villages and communities into a new era, a new civilization.
the text covers a wide range of issues, including the need for greater energy independence, the issue of own resources and gender issues.
in fact, this interesting discussion right now is about the security of the european union, because energy security is an important element of that security.
so, in short, without much interference in the natural environment, you can drill old wells to find new gas deposits.
so shouldn't we prepare a financial offer from the european union to dig up old deposits and get gas from certain sources without too much interference in the environment?
whereas its overarching objective to ensure that stocks are filled before the winter season is crucial for energy security and the price level of the eu gas market.
the fight for women's equality around the world has already taken a lot of energy, courage and sacrifice.
the hearing will be reopened on tuesday 5 july 2022 at 9.00 a.m. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against the risks of harmful organisms, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
we need to combine different forms of care (institutional, environmental, day care, round-the-clock care) and propose systemic solutions.
i heard recently that iceland, which is completely independent of gas and coal, was buying energy because it had no wind and no sun.
burning natural gas emits greenhouse gases.
nuclear energy, on the other hand, is a virtually zero-emission and environmentally friendly technology, just like renewable technologies.
the development of nuclear energy will contribute to the energy security of the eu member states.
it's the answer to the current energy crisis.
he doesn't care about energy security, energy price increases or inflation.
it is also important to mention that new climate targets are being pushed for, with the eu as a whole accounting for less than 9% of global co2 emissions.
nuclear energy is an opportunity to stabilize prices, and thus not only for zero-emission energy, but also for cheap and widely available energy.
this is also our part of the strategy too to pursue the sustainable development goals.
after the adoption of the 2030 agenda, the commission, in cooperation with the external action service, has deployed a range of measures to integrate the sustainable development goals for its international partnerships and development cooperation.
and finally, the new european global gateway strategy and our actions as team europe, meaning together with eu member states, will be deployed as a contribution to the implementation of the sustainable development goals.
i would also like to point out that food waste is part of global food insecurity and malnutrition.
the european union should step up its efforts to reduce food loss and waste.
rising energy prices, disruptions in the gas market are also reflected in the constantly rising prices of basic products.
in the interest of unity and our common values, we must not only combat the russian threat, but also focus on rebuilding our economies, building the union's strategic autonomy, ensuring financial stability and becoming independent from russian energy.
and the second point i want to make, and it's also been discussed here, is that it seems that the most important thing for europeans right now, from our perspective, outside of security, outside of the war in ukraine, is the energy crisis, which could affect all european families, which is associated with high energy prices, with the lack of energy sources, with high inflation.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is based on the principle of the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers.
the real problem is not eu sanctions, but the disruptive impact that the russian aggression has on global commodities markets, resulting in record—high prices for energy and grain, unstable trade connections and increased speculation on staple foods.
the main objective of the three seas is to exploit the economic potential of this part of europe by creating better internal infrastructural, digital, energy, road, rail, river port, bridge and, of course, high-speed fibre links.
but more importantly, it's a chance to fix the energy failures.
namely, the european union's energy model, germany, based on russian gas and fighting against coal, has just spectacularly collapsed.
therefore, the three seas project is the creation of a network of gas pipelines that could transport raw materials on the north-south axis, the construction of lng terminals, the construction and expansion of gas interconnectors, the increase in the capacity of the lng terminal in świnoujście for gas supplies and the key baltic pipe project, which is already being completed all of which is to end the possibility of russian blackmail of europe and to build energy independence and sovereignty on the old continent.
moreover, russia's aggression in ukraine has shown how visionary the project of building energy independence, effectively securing industrial infrastructure and deepening mutual transport links between the countries of the three seas was - these are guarantees of europe's security and prosperity.
when the russian aggressor is finally defeated - i believe that and i would like it to happen - ukraine will face the arduous task of rebuilding its roads, railways, hospitals, educational institutions, telecommunications services, energy infrastructure and crop fields, to name just a few.
europe's energy security will also depend on ukraine's ability to rebuild.
if we want a strong and secure europe, we must ensure equality, not just between the sexes, but also in road, rail, digital and energy infrastructure.
many infrastructure projects, improving digital connectivity and, of course, energy projects are the three pillars of economic development that the countries participating in this initiative should focus on.
madam president, minister, commissioner, the three seas initiative is a great example of cross—border cooperation in the areas of transport, energy and digital infrastructure to achieve interconnections.
it is now extremely timely and important for europe to invest in modern and mass connections that combine digitalisation, clean energy and transport.
building energy independence, securing industrial infrastructure effectively and deepening mutual transport links between the 3si countries are the guarantors of security and prosperity in our part of europe.
in the three seas region, we have consistently implemented and continue to implement projects aimed at diversifying supply and energy integration.
the commissioning of the baltic pipe gas pipeline (planned for october 2022), the expansion of interconnectors between poland and neighbouring countries and the increase in the capacity of the lng terminal in świnoujście for gas supply are fully in line with the concept of diversification and energy independence in the eu.
the enhanced cooperation should cover infrastructure investments in each of the three pillars digital, energy and transport, with cybersecurity being an essential element and a key dimension of the cooperation.
3 seas digital highway), joint data cloud projects that complement and integrate regional transport and energy infrastructure (including data centres), and develop a mature data-driven economy and industry 4.0. building an innovation ecosystem to strengthen the technological capabilities of 3s countries, including in disruptive technologies (ai, quantum, cyber), including their application for security and defence, and to strive to improve the region's position in the digital value chain, stimulate the potential of the digital space and build digital resilience.
its aim is to eradicate poverty, guarantee the rule of law, promote the sustainable economic and social development of the partner countries and the gradual integration of their economies into the world economy.
the global situation and new global challenges such as the migration crisis and climate change have meant that the basic assumptions of the partnership have had to be redefined, which does not mean that we should abandon the migration pact and legal migration and the green deal, which will allow us to live in a safer world.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the need to protect forests and biodiversity is a fact, and even a civilized duty.
the global north is exploiting poorer parts of the world, which are also more vulnerable to climate change than the north.
a plant-based, green and equitable food system transformation is necessary to reduce the impact of the food system on climate, the planet, people and animals.
we want them to be resilient to climate change and natural disasters, to be healthy, strong and to serve future generations.
i am afraid that the combination of the new forest strategy with the strategy's objectives of protecting biodiversity will be a major challenge for the forestry sector.
energy policy and climate policy are in a huge crisis right now.
remember, poverty is not ecological.
let's go over the fit for 55 package again, so it really does serve the environment.
the development of renewable energy is necessary and i think it's not up for discussion.
by setting unrealistic targets and raising limits and requirements in a way that is detached from reality, we achieve the opposite of what we want to achieve, and we damage the environment.
biomass accounts for 60% of the renewable energy produced in the european union, 36% of which is wood biomass, which we are subsidising, we are putting into the overall renewable targets, and we are creating a lot of demand for it.
i think we should be taking real care of the climate without harming the environment.
the european commission is proposing a package of emergency measures to bring down energy prices.
first, we have to free the energy producers from this stone in their necks, and then we have to throw in the various life-saving devices.
the whole spectacle of the european commission's concern for energy consumers is really a show of force and will not solve the problems because it does not address the causes.
freezing the ets would significantly reduce energy prices.
we are the victims of russia's energy attack because we have become dependent on that country's energy resources.
i therefore expect swift action from the commission to impose additional sanctions on russia in response to its hostile actions in the energy market.
i also expect the commission to act more quickly to introduce joint purchases of energy raw materials.
this must also be the case for the purchase of energy resources.
we also need swift action to curb the huge, usurious profits of speculators and energy trading companies.
we also need a swift response to ukraine's proposals for the transmission of energy and gas from ukraine to the european union.
we also need to limit european taxes, including ets, on energy resources, at least until the energy crisis is over.
madam president, madam commissioner, the european energy market is broken.
we need strong action by the public authorities and europe if we do not want inflation and the price of energy to destroy our economic growth and incubate a gigantic social malaise.
this intervention in the european energy market involves: first, extending the iberian exception to the rest of the continent, decoupling the price of electricity from gas; second, finding the prices of gas for access to international markets; third, controlling the futures markets that are speculating on gas; and fourth, limiting the obscene profits from the sky of energy companies.
and that is why we cannot accept the partisan and irresponsible approach of some of the opposition parties to the energy-saving measures which are absolutely necessary.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the energy strategy must not be left-wing or right-wing, either in the european union or in the member states.
energy policies and measures must be for the people.
i am concerned and ask: why are we discussing and spending five or six months in inventorying the problems of the energy crisis and not finding the measures to implement them?
if citizens can't pay their bills because of the energy crisis, neither for gas nor for energy, give them money to put in their solar panels.
madam president, i come from an energy-producing country which has the most expensive electricity tariff in the spanish state and one of the most expensive in europe.
while the electricity companies feed their profits, the people suffer the consequences of this energy price crisis.
i have just arrived in parliament in this parliamentary term and i thought that this debate would have been held long before and it is a debate that comes late, because there are many families who have been put out of the way, like some farmers in my country, who are closing farms because they cannot afford the price of energy.
europe is facing one of the biggest heating and cooling energy crises in history.
rising electricity, energy, coal and gas prices are a concern for millions of europeans, whose individual energy security and winter heat supply is at serious risk.
that is why today we expect and demand above all that the ideological blindfold be removed as soon as possible and that one of the most important decisions be taken: to suspend the emissions trading system until the energy markets are stabilized.
we must also continue to promote trade and economic exchanges with these countries and make progress in negotiating free trade agreements or in modernising existing ones to cover issues such as services, investment and sustainable development.
the mediterranean region is an area of major and additional strategic importance for the eu, as the security, stability, prosperity and resilience to climate change of the eu's southern neighbourhood enhance the security, stability, prosperity and resilience of the eu.
what we need, above all, is to move from this fire fighting to sustainable policies that will prevent these terrible solutions from ever arising.
i don't want to remind you that these were former german chancellors, the former german chancellor supported putin and the energy policy of this country.
yes, we have a war in europe, and not just this criminal russian aggression against ukraine, but also a war for energy security, for economic security, for jobs, and also a fight for civil rights.
the european energy community should be implemented with even greater force.
but today, this european energy community should be wider, it should include ukraine, moldova, georgia, the balkan countries that aspire to join the community.
i am very pleased that the president of the european commission, ursula von der leyen, has acknowledged during this important debate that we should listen to the voices raised in poland, warning of the dangers of irresponsible policy towards russia, of the dangers of energy dependence on that country, and of what putin is capable of doing to his neighbours, europe and the world.
on the contrary, in my renew group, we are convinced that in the face of the great challenges we face - the energy crisis, climate change, the digital revolution - our common values and fundamental principles are our best support.
the people are being robbed of a decent life by raising the price of food and energy, by imposing criminal taxes.
it is difficult to say today, given the current energy crisis, the war in ukraine, the post-covid situation and the huge economic recession, what cohesion policy will look like in six years' time.
if the europe of the future is to be innovative and competitive, and if energy transformation, digitalisation and demography are to become the driving forces of economic growth, we must ensure that the necessary and appropriate level of funding is allocated to the cohesion policy budget after 2027. repowereu, such an important new instrument for europeans' energy security, requires huge investments, but it cannot stand in the way of investment in regional development.
the importance of developing solutions to the demographic, economic, social and environmental challenges faced by border regions is demonstrated by the fact that they cover 40% of the territory and 30% of the population of the entire european union.
the main challenges for cohesion policy are food and energy security, the low-carbon transformation of national economies, digitalisation and demographic challenges, increased migration flows and finally the effects of pandemics and war.
more effective responses to demographic, economic, social and environmental challenges are needed, as well as identification of challenges to address the effects of pandemics and war.
i think it is very good that the european commission has taken into account the suggestions in our report to take action, or at least to express the will to take action, to diversify supplies and to prevent the european economy from becoming over-dependent in areas such as energy and raw materials.
without decisive, rapid action on this matter, we will not be able to carry out the planned actions in the energy transition.
discriminating against or openly rejecting these energy sources is another historic mistake, and the inevitable escape of industry will be only one of its consequences.
they’re a really important part of our industrial and our commercial ecosystem.
and that is in light of the energy situation, the large bills that they are facing and the uncertainty around that.
smes are under extreme pressure already after covid and now with the war with extremely high energy prices and inflation.
the next item is the commission statement on the ecological disaster in the oder river (2022/2824(rsp)).
as soon as we received the first reports about the disaster in mid-august, commissioner sinkevičius spoke with the two environment ministers in germany and poland to express the commission’s concerns, to better understand the situation and to offer our support.
the commission’s emergency response coordination centre requested an additional analysis from our joint research centre and reached out to operational points of contact in poland and germany, both from the civil protection and the marine pollution authorities to plan in advance a possible technical and operational support if needed.
we should uphold the polluter—pays principle and establish if a concrete activity can be linked to the pollution.
finally, we need to understand whether, and if so, to what extent, the state of the river and/or the specific climate and hydrological circumstances played a role.
many rivers in europe are, like the oder, heavily modified to suit inland navigation, industry or energy production.
all rivers in europe are increasingly subject to climate change.
eu law applies: eu water law, nature law, law on industrial pollution and on environmental liability are all potentially relevant.
what happened on the oder in poland in the last few weeks, is the biggest environmental disaster we've seen in poland in the last few decades.
but we still don't know who caused this ecological disaster.
so if you weren't already responding to an environmental disaster a month ago, at least you're mitigating its effects now.
two months have passed, and we still have no information about what really happened, who the perpetrators are, what the consequences of this disaster will be for the environment of the countries mentioned, for the health of the people who live near and far from the odra.
it's a pity that commissioner sinkevičius is not with us today, because he is the one responsible for protecting the environment.
and i would like to ask him, does he work closely enough with ngos, does he listen to the experts, the whistleblowers who defend the environment, does he treat them with the due attention and seriousness, does he take advantage of their knowledge, their experience?
but we are dealing with an environmental crime and we need a proper investigation to make sure it never happens again.
because we're still seeing destruction, like the vistula trench, the extension of the emissions from turov.
and we're waiting for action, for environmental facts, so that environmental action is actually concrete.
i wish we could discuss what's important to resolving the causes of the ecological disaster on the oder.
decisions are being made on the verification of water-law permits, which may be outdated with climate change and the deterioration of water, not only in the oder.
and the fish dying off the oder is an ecological disaster.
we must say that industrial plants in general, unfortunately, discharge their waste water into the river because they want to avoid the costs of disposal.
the sensitive ecosystem of the oder, one of the few rivers that has remained relatively natural, is exposed to a variety of pressures from these human influences and cannot withstand them, despite the european water directive.
the worsening climate catastrophe is also leading to low water levels and high temperatures.
the ecosystem is being deliberately destroyed, i would like to emphasise this once again, and the plants and animals living there are losing their habitat in times of increasing species extinction and biodiversity loss.
despite the recent verbal declarations by the federal ministry of the environment against the development of the oder, it has not yet become known that the plans for the development measures on the german side have been stopped.
the german government is probably still carrying out a strategic environmental review here, and the effects are actually visible to the naked eye.
one of the reasons for this ecological disaster is that the river system is not sustainable.
many problems could be avoided if fewer permits were issued for the discharge of industrial waste, waste products, etc., into rivers and if there were better controls over what exactly is being discharged.
i want to remind you that any human encroachment on an ecosystem not only destroys the environment, but it also harms all of humanity.
it is time for health, the environment and animal rights to become the exclusive competence of the european union.
it is time to debate the amendment of the treaties and to give the community all the powers necessary to ensure that the european commission finally takes the lead in protecting human rights, the environment and animal rights.
but in the european parliament we must think systematically and look for solutions so that the environment in the european union is absolutely protected and that the commission has the competence to do so.
any ecological disaster, any disaster with the consequences that occurred in the oder, is deplorable and condemnable.
the next item on the agenda is the commission statement on the 'impulse for action for the oceans: improving ocean governance and biodiversity' (2022/2836 ((rsp)).
the escalation of this conflict is particularly damaging to the central and eastern regions of the european union, including poland, leading to a severe migration crisis, disruption of supply chains, and dramatic increases in energy prices and costs.
today we are sending a clear signal: no more tedious management of the many chargers that end up as e-waste.
in the past, when replacing equipment, the old charger was often found to be useless, which generated unnecessary costs for the buyer and caused excessive generation of e-waste.
they contribute to 11,000 tons of e-waste every year.
it also benefits the environment.
less e-waste means less resources and energy consumed and less co2 emissions.
the accessible eu hub should make clear that accessibility goes beyond the physical and digital accessibility of the built environment and services.
our priority is to create an environment that enables people with disabilities to have full access to every aspect of life and the economy.
the accessibility of the built environment for the disabled is one area where we have a lot of work to do.
i am very confident that the accessible eu centre will be able to effectively support institutions, organisations and businesses that are making changes to design for all and to make goods, services and the whole environment more accessible to all citizens, regardless of age or ability level.
no energy, no gas and water connections, no education and work, the spread of disease, it's really like a picture from the middle ages.
it will have the courage to push through all the recommendations that favour biodiversity, which are behind the solutions to block international trade in wildlife.
in the current situation, in the midst of the food and energy crisis, we need clear priorities, not vague references.
security is a prerequisite for sustainable development.
despite the economic investment, the fight against climate change, the lack of security undermines state government, creates an unpredictable economic environment, and ultimately hinders the expected development.
countries in the horn of africa face similar challenges of government instability, climate change, and ethnic conflict.
only in this way can we build with them a sustainable and inclusive human economic development, one that puts human security at the centre and also changes the paradigm of our initiatives, leaving behind a paternalistic approach too tied to the donor-recipient concept, which has often accompanied our work in the past and which, as has also emerged from the talks i have had with the diplomatic representatives of the individual countries, often leads to creating walls of mistrust and hostility, thus ending up by accentuating the way in which they look with greater openness and favor to other actors who do not play by our same rules, but above all do not play for our values.
today, access to water is threatened by multiple reasons: extractivism, land grabbing, intensive livestock farming, hydroelectric dams, polluting agribusiness, war conflicts and, of course, the climate crisis, with record temperatures and historic floods and droughts.
their scarcity could displace 700 million people between now and 2030 in search of climate refuge.
this text also addresses the situation of those who defend the human right to water and sanitation: indigenous communities, afro-descendants and peasants, environmental rights defenders and social leaders who are being attacked and criminalized daily for defending the right to water.
in this context, the report calls on the european commission to ensure that infrastructure and energy projects financed through the various instruments of development cooperation and european foreign policy respect and do not jeopardize the human right to water and sanitation and do not contribute to the expulsion of indigenous peoples from their lands and territories.
ensuring equitable, universal access to water requires increasing public investment in sustainable infrastructure, protecting water as a public and essential good, and undertaking privatisation processes to improve the effective enjoyment of the human rights to water and sanitation.
with climate change coming, access to water, or lack of it, will have a huge impact on millions of people around the world.
conflict over water, land and habitat is and will become more frequent, and climate-related disaster-induced migration will increase significantly.
we are the ones who are largely undermining the human right to water and sanitation through excessive consumption of water resources and pollution caused by industrial abuses and inefficient management of resources.
129 countries around the world are struggling to provide a sustainable water supply for their people.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
water, water treatment, networks, irrigation, sewage become social property and not a commodity, to meet people's needs and protect the environment.
eu aquaculture contributes to food supply and food security by providing sustainable and quality food products with a smaller environmental footprint than land—based, thus ensuring that eu aquaculture progresses in accordance with the green transition, while also bringing socio-economic opportunities to coastal regions and rural areas.
the aim of this proposal is to improve consumer welfare and reduce the environmental footprint that comes from the manufacture and disposal of chargers and is part of a broader effort to make products in the eu more sustainable, reduce e-waste and make consumers’ lives easier.
beyond saving consumers money, there is also an environmental benefit.
while electronic waste is the fastest-growing waste in the eu, less than 40% is recycled.
this law aims to reduce the volume of such waste.
it is clear that we are liberating ourselves from energy dependence on russia.
it is an extraordinary thing that will lead us to liberate ourselves from the energy dependence on russia, which was a great conditioner of our foreign policy towards russia and, consequently, of our foreign policy, which included ukraine.
in fact, we have not had a foreign policy towards ukraine, because it was subsidiary to our policy towards russia, and russia was, in turn, subsidiary to our energy dependence - and was conditioned by it.
and the consequences for many countries are certainly bad in terms of prices, energy and food.
and since many months, he is using energy as a weapon.
we see in particular the rising energy prices and gas and electricity prices that are leading to reduced purchasing power, and they are leading to a loss of competitiveness for our business in the international market.
and what we have to do is work steadily on our resilience, mainly on the field of energy.
to redistribute the windfall profits to support those in need and to invest in the future of a sustainable energy supply, and that is repowereu.
of course, it’s all about energy prices.
we will strengthen our energy platform.
after the winter, we will have to refill the gas storages and if we then see that we have again a scenario where member states are outbidding each other on the global market and thus raising the prices here in the european union, this is not sustainable.
with repowereu we have developed a crucial instrument to accelerate the transition in the energy independence.
but it also allows – and that’s important – to support businesses or households to invest in energy efficiency, for example, insulating houses or installing heat pumps or installing new technology for the companies, the businesses that have to do the transition.
we modernise our infrastructure, the energy infrastructure.
the acts of sabotage against nord stream pipelines have shown how vulnerable our energy infrastructure is.
they are the lifeline of data and energy.
we will work with member states to ensure effective stress tests in the energy sector.
on friday, the european council must find a common understanding on energy solidarity, and madam commission president we fully support your initiatives in this field.
but for the first time, serious and worrying events have taken place outside ukraine: i am referring to the sabotage of energy infrastructure in the baltic.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am sorry that i have to waste my time again in replying to those who are exploiting politics at such a delicate time.
we know that europe is suffering, we know that the allies have supported us in increasing gas supplies, energy supplies to the european union, but we expect that from allies with whom we have shared a strong path there will also be support, strong help for europe.
that is why we need a credible europe also in energy policy.
however, it is unworthy and unacceptable to link a strong and united political stance on ukraine, solidarity with the ukrainian people, with the highly controversial and divisive and contradictory practical issue of immediate and comprehensive energy sanctions against russia.
i support the package of measures presented by the commission and i support the measures presented by the president of the commission today to reorganise the energy market and to set up a new pricing mechanism.
and there were decisions that were made here as well, that allowed him to do such things, for example, on energy policy, allowing the construction of nord stream 1, then nord stream 2, allowing the destabilization of the entire energy system and the economy of the european union.
a weapon used to divide us, through which the kremlin seeks to manipulate the atrocities committed, deny the principles on which our international community is founded and exploit, for example, the energy crisis.
i am referring to the german state of mecklenburg-vorpommern, which launched the climate and environmental protection foundation in early 2021. the organisation was tasked with carrying out the work on the completion of the nord stream 2 gas pipeline project, which was already nearing completion.
fair trade, decent pay, sustainable products that give the planet a chance to survive, and good working conditions for every woman and man.
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, after years of pressure from the greens and others, all trade agreements must finally contain enforceable rules on social and environmental conditions.
if they don't respect the paris climate agreement, or labor rights, then there will be sanctions.
and will it still make bad trade deals for people and the environment?
look at india, where there's a lot of talk, but there's not even a sustainability study.
australia does not yet have a really strong protection of people and the environment, particularly when we are talking about critical resources or the climate.
we need to reopen those negotiations with mercosur and mexico to make sure that there are truly binding sustainability chapters.
we can only accept trade agreements which respect people and the environment, and we will not accept anything less.
so i myself try not to buy chinese products anymore, because i do not want to contribute indirectly to the pollution that that country causes.
this catastrophe is yet another demonstration of the terrible effects that climate change can bring.
therefore, we should step up our efforts to help pakistan in facing not only the immediate but also the long-term consequences of such a huge disaster and in building resilience against climate change.
mr. president, pakistan produces less than 1% of the world's emissions.
however, it is one of the countries most affected by the consequences of climate change.
it has been on the list of the ten countries most vulnerable to climate risks for 20 years.
a uachtaráin, the climate crisis is increasingly affecting the lives of millions of people across the world.
pakistan was one of the country’s worst affected by climate change in the first years of this century.
this climate-induced crisis has come on top of an ongoing political and economic crisis.
in europe our primary focus is on the unjust war in ukraine and the resulting energy crisis, which poses immediate and acute dangers.
climate change, on the other hand, has not gone away.
they are unquestionably the result of climate change, and it is our collective responsibility to mitigate the effects, especially for the most vulnerable.
solidarity is not just about helping with this or that issue, it's also about fighting climate change, taking care of your environment so that it doesn't negatively impact the environment of your neighbors.
we cannot predict which country will be next to suffer from the effects of climate change, such as drought, earthquake, eruption or, as in the case of pakistan, flooding.
climate change did not just come out of nowhere.
the wealth of our part of the world is being consumed by environmental degradation, which is dramatically and dramatically precipitating the cataclysm in pakistan, which has affected over 30 million people.
while we are working every day to pay off the debt we owe our planet by achieving climate neutrality, the tragedy of pakistan is a painful reminder that we are moving too slowly and too late, with consequences for countries that are almost helpless in the face of the cataclysm that has befallen them.
fertilizer prices have doubled, tripled, energy prices have more than doubled, and feed costs have also risen dramatically.
energy prices, gas prices, the shift of fertilizer production outside the european union, dependence on imports, and finally the war that interrupted all supply chains all led to a dramatic situation on the fertilizer market.
so here's a suggestion: the ets is a speculative market that causes everyone to lose control of energy prices.
it is therefore necessary to develop a new modus operandi, which will provide a new definition of the pandemic response in the coming months, consisting of a transition from a state of emergency to a more sustainable one.
the elimination of poverty is also one of the five un sustainable development goals.
especially now, when we're facing an energy crisis and high inflation.
the rising prices of energy and fuel, inflation, the fear that they will not be able to survive the coming winter, the fear of losing their jobs, entrepreneurs who are worried that they will have to close their businesses - these are the realities we are facing, and we should do everything we can to help the europeans in a real and rational way.
the conclusions to be drawn from and the plans currently being implemented in the european union, for example on climate policy, the ets, must also be verified.
putin's war on the civilized world has brought us enormous social and economic costs, record inflation in the eu countries, and alarmingly high energy prices.
war is not the time to pursue the eu's unrealistic, uncalculated climate policy goals, which will result in deepening poverty in europe!
we need to review the eu's climate policy!
for this reason, the appropriate reform of mental health care system activities must be directed towards developing an environmental model of psychiatric care and equalising access through the implementation of programmes in health centres and the development of appropriate models of mental health care system for adults, children and adolescents.
let's listen to the needs of citizens, so that mental health centres are located close to where they live and offer support from psychologists, psychotherapists and environmental therapists.
i'm glad we've seen in this house the problem of the long-term, growing environmental pressures on our mental health.
add to this the declining purchasing power, the rising energy and fuel prices on the eve of winter, and the post-covid mental health disorders that many of us have experienced to a greater or lesser degree.
the budget documents reflect the situation in the european union, because they show that we are dealing with inflation, with putin, with the russian aggressor, with the energy and food price increases, that the quality of life will decline, that we will have to pay off all the debts that the union has incurred, and so look for fresh money, look for new money.
we are rightly asking ourselves whether other countries will keep up with the european union's climate ambitions.
and what we're seeing is a growing gap between the climate activists in europe and the more pragmatic governments in india and china.
the european union will continue to preach to the world and destroy its economy with the same zero impact on global climate change.
this is not the time to increase climate finance.
this is no time to spiral so-called climate ambitions.
the citizens of europe need answers to the energy crisis, not to repeat the same mistakes that the crisis has caused.
i appreciate your commitment to maintain the european union’s role as a leader in the field of international climate action.
after sharm, our work must continue both domestically and internationally, and to help our partners to advance the transition to a low-carbon, climate resilient economy.
while poles do everything they can to help their neighbour in the fight, bearing the gigantic costs of instability and rising energy prices, here in the union, the game is on.
we have to prepare ourselves with the knowledge that we're going to be operating in a much more challenging environment than we were six months ago.
as a polish mep, because this initiative goes beyond the divisions of our polish environment, i would like to say that we must rise above national divisions, above political divisions, to show unity in this house, as the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe did last week.
questioned only because they don't like the majority that's sitting here today, he talks about the need for a change of policies, energy policy among others, to protect the citizens of europe from the crisis.
you can't have climate policy at the expense of any one social group.
we must finally start to think rationally about climate and energy issues.
when we warned here about the disastrous effects of implementing the pathological ets system, no one believed that this system would cause a crisis, an increase in energy prices.
we are discussing, i believe, a crucial point here which comes before everything else: the need to protect the environment.
gas prices, energy prices are critical for households, for industry, for businesses.
there is also the second point that the president has raised here, which is solidarity and equal opportunities for individual member states in the energy market transformation.
renewable energy -- yes, of course, but energy security, this energy mix, is renewable, but we're going to need fossil and nuclear for a while.
namely, you and your group - which is very influential here in the european parliament - are very much in favour of renewable energy.
mrs. von der leyen said a moment ago that we could get 90 new gigawatts of renewable energy.
my question is that you are from germany and you have a lot of experience in renewable energy construction for many years.
explain to me this paradox, why every year you build more and more renewable energy, get more and more renewable energy and have been buying more and more gas and coal from russia in recent years?
i'll just say it again: it makes me wonder why, despite the fact that in germany you have a lot of experience in building renewable energy, year after year for the past few years you have been buying a lot of energy from russia?
in response to the difficulties and disruptions in the global energy market caused by russia's invasion of ukraine, the commission presented a plan to become independent of russian raw materials.
repowereu is also a plan for energy saving, green energy production and diversification of supply.
it is backed by financial and legal means to build new infrastructure and a new energy system.
you've already wasted a decade of energy transition, so now it's time to decide: either you're with the european union or you're with putin.
the report is undoubtedly a big improvement in comparison to the initial commission proposal, which, as we recall, laid out ambitious mandatory reporting requirements, but only in the field of corporate environmental sustainability.
however, we must remember that sustainability does not only concern environmental matters.
video games are an important ecosystem for the european union, both economically and culturally.
to address all these concerns in a sustainable manner.
that 12 years of waste can be fixed in two months?
there are additional funds for military mobility, for energy.
the proposed basket is unsustainable, it will place an undue burden on less prosperous member states with high-carbon economies.
it's not fair, because we're not going to have the money to make the energy transition.
as citizens of the european union, we are obliged to respect the principles of humanitarianism and human rights for people seeking safety in europe victims of armed conflict, persecution, violence, poverty and climate change.
therefore, any decision that is taken at this moment in the context of energy security must take account first of all of the interests of the citizens of the member states.
we have to think about infrastructure, we have to think about energy supply, we have to think about the future.
but today we have to think about what's most important, about gas prices, about energy prices.
europe is at war, energy and economic crisis, and people are living in energy poverty.
we therefore owe it to the europeans to be honest and to inform them that the actions being taken by the european commission are unfortunately sham, because we will not reduce energy prices unless we stop the ets.
at the same time, the european commission does not dare to say that it has frozen until march the directive on energy taxation, whereby the prices of coal-based energy are to increase from 100% to 300%, and the prices of heat and gas-based energy from 300% to 500%.
madam president, the situation on the energy market shows us that we are all suffering the consequences of russia's criminal aggression in the european union, especially through higher energy and commodity prices.
the more we have to stick together, the more important common european solutions are, the more important a functioning european energy market is.
it is also important for better energy security and better energy prices.
energy prices need to be liberalised, including by liberalising the rules for those who generate energy, small energy producers, especially from renewable sources.
today, more than ever, we need to remove barriers to the single market, invest in energy infrastructure and have new market rules for the separation of gas and electricity prices.
dependence on russian fossil fuels is declining, which is good news, and we need to use today's times to really make a difference for citizens, for business competitiveness, and for better environmental protection.
most of us are in favor of aggressive climate policies, which is the main cause of the chaos in the energy market in europe today.
i will say this bluntly: europe needs cheap and stable energy.
renewable energy alone is absolutely not going to do it here.
if we really want to reduce our energy bills and make the eu economy more competitive, let's do the obvious.
let's say fossil fuels and nuclear have to be part of the energy and climate plans for the next 30 or even 50 years.
let's not pretend we're the climate saviors of the world.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the energy crisis we have had two strategies to compare: the commission has already proposed a ceiling on the price of gas, and i think that this solution has not been accepted by the commission, but on the other hand there are those who are adopting a different strategy, which i believe is equally complex and probably even more dangerous for the market, namely to focus on reducing energy demand and to subsidize, with the resources available within the country, to compensate for this reduction in energy demand.
unfortunately, the reduction in demand for gas and energy at the moment is not caused by efficiency, but by the fact that it is decided to move production elsewhere.
the response to the current energy crisis must be comprehensive and show how united europe is in the face of a russian attack through the use of energy resources.
the first thing we must do is to ensure that the european union meets its energy needs for this winter and the next, which will be even more difficult.
joint purchases are important not only to provide us with energy, but also to ensure that the price is not overstated by our own countries and our own companies fighting each other for access to fuel.
everyone in the european union must have access to cheap energy, no matter what country or city they live in.
another key instrument that needs to be implemented is socially acceptable energy and energy raw material prices.
last but not least, further integration of our capabilities through interconnectors, which must simultaneously prepare us for possible future crises and for the use of environmentally friendly energy sources, such as hydrogen.
protecting biodiversity is essential to ensure the ability of humans to live on earth, to ensure food security.
the greatest challenges to biodiversity conservation are faced by the agricultural sector and rural areas.
second, we have responded by dedicating part of our development cooperation to the eastern part of the country in the areas of health, sustainable development and gender equality, among others.
whether it's climate change, social issues or digital development, young people are at the heart of our policies and political priorities.
i am all the more pleased that it is in line with the strategy for sustainable rural development, agriculture and fisheries that we are implementing in my country, poland.
the pandemic and the war have presented european farmers with unprecedented challenges, including skyrocketing energy and fertiliser prices, runaway inflation and blocked export routes from the black sea.
we are talking about the possibility of carrying out activities in selected areas of the eu, for example, pastoral areas, to ensure the viability of agriculture and the sustainable coexistence of people and animals.
as vice-president of the biodiversity, hunting and rural intergroup, i have always been committed to using local potential, with appropriate support.
the rural areas face crucial challenges in the coming decades: population decline, ageing, fewer high-quality jobs, less digital connectivity, climate change and often less access to services of general interest compared to other areas.
add to this the war in ukraine and the sanctions on russia, which continue to complicate air space use while also driving up energy prices.
aviation is an ecosystem.
so ensuring high quality and sustainable employment in the aviation sector must be a priority.
we have been conducting a thorough review of the regulatory framework to determine which improvements are needed, as announced in our smart and sustainable mobility strategy.
and the single european sky reform currently in negotiation between the parliament and the council is absolutely necessary to drive efficiency and address unnecessary emissions from congestion problems.
energy prices are indeed unacceptable, but they became unacceptable in the last quarter of 2021 before the war broke out.
and they're also a violation of what we've always talked about, about civic engagement, about protecting the environment, habitat, nature, because we forget about that.
article 16d is unacceptable, which says that for some reason, installations for this type of renewable energy are investments for a public purpose.
in the context of corruption scandals, we're also opening the door to this type of activity in the placement of renewable energy investments.
the energy transition must meet specific objectives.
second, in order to ensure a fair energy transition, the differences in the level of wealth of eu citizens in the different member states should be taken into account by increasing the co-financing in countries with lower gross domestic product.
the commission will also assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection.
fourthly, renewable energy investments should be as low-burden as possible.
i'm not convinced that vegetarianism or a new secular religion on climate issues is the way to universal human happiness.
no energy crisis, no economic crisis, no lockdown is an excuse for the neglect that is.
eurostat reports that almost 95 million europeans are at risk of poverty, including energy poverty.
the energy crisis, the economic crisis, it's all affecting the children.
energy policy is leading us to disaster.
we were the ones who caused the energy crisis before the war.
you can't say, on the one hand, pay more, because we have these ambitions, more for food, more for energy, and then declare that we have to help those who are at risk of energy poverty.
in these times of energy shortages and skyrocketing living costs, it is necessary to ensure that these fundamental rights are maintained by putting the necessary funds in place.
the solutions are in place: re-establishing targeted sanctions, reviving the nuclear industry and lowering taxes on basic commodities, particularly energy.
only a wise and prudent policy, at this moment, of the union and the withdrawal from the climate and energy package, which unfortunately will cause enormous poverty, is and should be our goal of action.
the ministry of defense has repeatedly refused to allow the chinese to buy critical parts of the port in tri-city, gdańsk or gdynia, but in a specific example: today in the port of szczecin there is an attempt to take over not property, not land, but an operating company dealing with transshipments important from the point of view of energy security, cargo.
it is our duty to support ukraine, but it is also our duty to think about what we can do to protect the european union countries, the european people from the costs of this terrible war and to ensure their security, including energy security.
high energy prices for europeans.
yes, we need to make the energy transition so that we do not make the same mistakes that the commission and parliament made years ago.
you supported nordstream 2 and supported russia to dominate the fuel and energy market in the european union.
while western europe is experiencing huge increases in energy prices, the ukrainian nation itself is facing a far more complex set of disasters: the lack of heating, water and electricity supplies as a result of regular attacks on the country's critical infrastructure.
one of the topics for the council meeting is energy and the economic situation.
europeans are now paying the bill for years of irresponsible energy policy based on dependence on russian gas.
but we must do everything we can to diversify energy supplies, to stabilise prices, to help those who need it the most to survive the harsh winter months and to rethink the community's energy policy.
and the good news is that someone wants to join us in fighting climate change.
and that is important to ensure that when we achieve our strategic targets, we do that with sufficient flexibility to adjust to a change of circumstance around us so that we will fight climate change, but we will do that by also enabling our industrial strategy.
– the inflation reduction act was presented in a positive way in the us – it is supposed to curb inflation, deal with taxation and focus on green energy.
high energy prices.
why are energy prices so high?
europe has unfortunately fallen victim to the eu's energy policy, badly planned and, indeed, persistently pursued by the european commission and the green-minded eurocrats.
for years you have fought against coal, against coal-based energy, and today you are very eager to import this coal from exotic countries.
and for years you have been deaf to the arguments of those who have said loud and clear that the eu's energy policy is leading europe to the precipice of financial collapse.
inflation driven by astronomical energy prices is draining household budgets and killing off all our businesses.
how are they supposed to raise their own workers' salaries when they have to close their factories because of the energy costs?
in these crazy times, we have only one solution: the urgent suspension of the provisions of the climate and energy package and the resignation of the "fit for 55" package.
but i think what is crucial is what mr groothuis said, that we need an ecosystem here that is non-permissive.
at the conference call by presidents macron and zelenskyy in paris last tuesday, commission president von der leyen already announced further support in the field of energy.
for this reason, the emergency response coordination centre in the european commission will be stepping up its coordination activities in order to pool energy assistance from all eu member states and third countries in a newly established eu energy hub in poland and channel it into ukraine.
mr president, madam commissioner, dear colleagues, russia’s military aggression against european ukraine is based on an attempt to create a critical humanitarian situation by cutting off access to energy, healthcare, food and other essential services and goods.
russia, after numerous failures, has chosen the tactics of destroying ukraine’s energy infrastructure.
it is a modern day ‘scorched earth’ tactic because we all depend on energy so much.
in recent weeks, russia has been carrying out terrorist attacks on energy and transport infrastructure, with full awareness that with the onset of winter, the lives and health of millions of ukrainians are at risk.
mr president, ukraine saw its first snow this mid—november, just a couple of days after the new wave of missile attacks targeting energy infrastructure had left approximately 10 million people, our friends, without electricity and a warm place.
as energy is weaponised, we have to stay firm.
as announced by president von der leyen in paris on tuesday, we have a new energy hub available in poland.
the next item is the debate on the major interpellation to the commission by nicolaus fest, bernhard zimniok, gunnar beck, markus buchheit and gerolf annemans, on behalf of the id group, on attacks on critical energy infrastructure (g-001001/2022).
the recommendation focuses on the energy sector and also covers digital infrastructure, transport, transport and space.
we cannot afford to waste time.
the commission has agreed with member states on common criteria for conducting stress tests, starting with the energy sector as a priority.
it is therefore good that we have just heard the european commission explain how we can better protect critical infrastructure together, including not only energy transmission networks, and therefore, of course, we must also ask the question, if damage has occurred, who caused this damage, and secondly, how we can prevent such damage in the future.
we in the epp group pointed out a few weeks ago that we need a single internal energy market in europe, which is also subject to full harmonisation, when we find that cooperation and the extension of interconnectors are not yet proceeding as quickly and as well as we would like, just at the frontiers, in order to make the whole of europe energy resilient, that is, prepared for emergencies.
the kremlin's dark dream is an energy-independent europe, a europe based on renewable energy sources, a self-sufficient europe that does not need one cubic metre of gas and one tonne of imported coal.
there are eu programmes for the energy transition: 5 billion euros.
but beyond that, we need to create a common energy fund directly for the people of europe, so that we don't repeat the mistakes of the cohesion fund and the just transition fund, which are dependent on illegitimate governments.