the programme of activities of the french presidency of the council of the european union (eu), entitled recovery, strength and a sense of belonging, expresses a commitment to economic recovery, enabling the successful ecological and digital transitions, the defence and promotion of european values and interests and the importance of building and developing a common european vision.
this act is a regulation designed to create a safer online environment, while promoting innovation in the digital domain in the european union.
we will have to continue working to complete this legislation, which is only a first step: with this law we lay the foundations of what security in the digital environment should be, but there are still many challenges to be addressed.
if that were not enough, recent events have further highlighted the climate of repression in the country, the contempt for the most elementary rights and for human life itself.
we must ensure that we address their concerns, such as mental health, unemployment and social inequality, and that we keep fighting climate change and care about the planet.
the latest data show that euro area inflation is largely a temporary phenomenon: energy prices and supply chain failures, as the ecb has repeatedly pointed out.
for all this, ladies and gentlemen, and if we really care about these animals, i ask you to support tomorrow the alternative resolution of the committee on the environment, which portrays much more faithfully the problems in the implementation of animal welfare legislation and to support the amendments of the greens to ensure that the agriculture report is in the end less bad.
in addition to licensing that will allow africa to have the capacity to mass-produce covid-19 vaccines, infrastructure and environmental projects need to move forward quickly and without hesitation.
where concerns about climate change are not instrumentalised to make new business.
well, climate change is one of the biggest challenges of our time, and global warming is the cause of world hunger, malnutrition, exposure to disease and lack of access to water.
when we look at these climate changes, we might say that in the european union, they affect women less than in other continents, but in the european union, women also face very serious problems.
it also means preventing and combating inequalities, discrimination and all forms of violence against women, as well as the challenges posed by climate change.
these inequalities that make women more vulnerable to climate change and how they are more vulnerable, usually and unfortunately, in any crisis.
we therefore need to have more gender-disaggregated data, to ensure that women are present at the decision-making tables and, above all, to ensure that all climate policies, at european and international level, take into account their impact on women.
we are getting closer and closer to a situation similar to the worst drought we have ever seen in portugal, which occurred in 2005. it is 17 years since there have been so many areas of portugal in serious drought at this time of year, which is causing enormous damage to various sectors of our economy, to the environment, such as tourism, and particularly to agriculture.
as chair of the regi committee, i put a proposal on the table: the creation of a new fund, the regional climate change adaptation fund, which is based on a mapping of risks and needs, and on national climate change adaptation plans.
today, all our efforts are directed towards mitigating and reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
of course you have to do it; but we also need to address the lack of a genuine european strategy for adapting to climate change, which is already underway and has become irreversible, given the inertia of the climate model.
take the plunge from the regi committee and present a proposal to the european parliament for the creation of this new regional fund for adaptation to climate change.
– mr president, as the interventions from most political groups have highlighted, we urgently need to make our food systems sustainable and resilient.
extreme weather phenomena, such as this drought, do not only affect the agricultural production and impact the livelihood of millions of eu citizens who live in rural areas, but are also intimately interlinked with our common fight against climate change, our concerns about soil erosion in many european regions, the impact on biodiversity and water supply.
the new cap 2023—2027 strengthens the tools available, and the commission services have encouraged member states to use them to the fullest extent in their draft cap strategic plans, considering that, in the future, more extreme weather conditions will be ushered in by the climate crisis.
as i stated earlier, we need to adapt to climate change.
climate change experts warn that warming will lead to more evapotranspiration in the mediterranean region and that the available water reserves will be smaller, with situations like the current one recurring more frequently.
we also work to ensure that the most vulnerable and poorest populations are not affected any more and we oppose the unfeasible absorption target assigned to spain in the new proposal for the utcuts regulation, which does not take into account the impacts of climate change.
portugal is experiencing a climate emergency due to the drought that has been occurring in recent months and is likely to worsen.
droughts and other extreme weather events pose considerable risks to human health, agriculture, biodiversity, water supply and hydropower generation.
in agriculture, for example, the impact on farms, requiring the use of irrigation, increases production costs, in the context of rising other factors such as energy and fuels, crushing prices in production and reducing incomes.
we'll support ukraine, we'll deal with the energy crisis.
respect for the objectives of the paris agreement, guided by the european green deal, and the objective of energy autonomy for europe should also be a priority, in partnership with local authorities, institutions and civil society in the preparation of cohesion policy programmes from the outset.
what is important, and what i want to focus on today and now, is the result of the so-called 'green deal' for the energy independence of european countries.
what we need to do, madam president and colleagues, is immediately, immediately stop this green deal, produce our own energy from our own sources like maritsa east, stop talking about stopping them altogether and be appropriate to the situation.
let's do the rest now because these people don't have time to waste any more of their lives.
for the promotion of inclusive sustainable growth all options must be considered, including the revision of the stability and growth pact, the importance of the existence of a european commission capacity to go to financial markets on behalf of the european union.
finally, the success of the recovery and resilience mechanism should be the basis for redefining the european semester as a privileged instrument for the coordination of economic, budgetary, social and environmental policies, with renewed democratic legitimacy, greater accountability, and more parliamentary oversight.
and we know today that they will not allow us to respond to the economic crisis that is coming and will be provoked by the russian invasion of ukraine, either from the point of view of responding to the economic and social crisis, or from the point of view of the investment that is essential in the energy transition so that europe can reduce its dependence on russia in this field.
we found ourselves in the position to deliver economic growth and sustainable reforms again.
energy, essential goods and supply chains are suffering a severe shock that deserves our full attention.
this is certainly not the time to reinstate old fiscal rules and budget cuts, but rather to work together, invest towards our energy independence and to relieve the european people from the negative impacts of this war.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the present situation only reinforces the importance of ensuring greater energy independence.
i would like to reiterate my support for the overall objectives of the proposal: to strengthen the functioning of the internal market, in particular for products, processes and waste, by ensuring a fair market and conditions of competition with common rules and standards, to promote the circular economy of the various components and to reduce the environmental and social impacts of all stages of the battery life cycle.
if we want energy independence, decarbonization and moving forward in electrification, moving beyond fossil fuels, then let's move forward in these matters.
madam president, this eighth environment action programme is an essential instrument to guide the european union in its environmental and climate objectives for the next few years with a view to 2050. our response to climate and biodiversity emergencies requires the implementation of a holistic approach, taking into account mitigation and adaptation measures, the circular economy, the protection and recovery of biodiversity and the zero pollution target.
the answer, and the only way to save the planet for future generations, is to transition to a sustainable, welfare economy.
the measures presented in the report are important for protecting workers in europe and for creating a sustainable working life.
we're going to start from the perspective of a sustainable professional life.
together we will ensure a sustainable working life for all workers in europe.
mr president, given the high level of health protection we aim to achieve in all union policies and actions, it is essential that we focus on extending vision zero to cover also the active prevention of work-related accidents and diseases, in particular by addressing psychosocial risks and mental health, adapting to digital, environmental and demographic transitions, minimising negative impacts and enhancing the positive effects on health literacy and its role in recognising the risks and modifiable risk factors, in particular those linked to cancer, which still represent the main cause of work-related death.
we are also beginning to feel the effects of the war that has broken out in europe and we are all feeling the impact of energy taxation in our pockets.
there was a positive environment of discussion between those more actively participating in the negotiations, and even at this late hour in the evening many of the shadow rapporteurs are here with us – i see as isabel, billy, i see ernest, some of our colleagues that were our shadows and probably others are at home, but they were certainly intensely involved in the debate.
the final result, i think, mirrors this positive environment and constructive debate we had.
this is particularly important in the current environment we are living in.
we cannot allow financial resources to leave the union without being subject to taxation while facing inflationary pressure due to the severe shocks in the supply of energy, of essential goods, all the consequences of what we are facing at these moments.
it is important that this energy sovereignty of europe be achieved with an energy transition agenda, without hesitation and zigzagging, and not through a return to the coal age.
it is the most disadvantaged people who suffer the most from the impact of escalating prices, energy or food.
we cannot allow the increase in poverty, particularly energy poverty, to be the price to pay for this war.
that it takes on new priorities, like defense and energy security.
they cannot be the most vulnerable to pay for the rises in energy or food prices.
it paves the way for a strategic autonomy of the european union in all its dimensions, including energy.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it should not be for the sake of this absurd war, but for the sake of justice for farmers, who are men and women who want to produce in a way that respects good environmental practices.
i therefore propose that the commission should review the objectives and timetables of the prairie to prairie and biodiversity strategies.
to do this, our farming and fishing systems must become more sustainable and future-oriented, with the aim of reducing dependence on imports and increasing domestic production.
in this regard, we should take advantage of the measures already planned and adopted at european level such as the european green deal and the eu biodiversity and prairie to prairie strategies which will contribute to mitigating this crisis and reducing uncertainty in the affected sectors.
but above all, on the floor of the european parliament, i feel the need to appeal for an end to dependence - especially energy dependence - on the aggressor, which is putin's evil empire.
they are in our backyard and, together with our strategic partner, the united states, we need to put out the fire by moving forward at a faster pace, meaning we need to: consolidate our defence in partnership with nato; protect our population against energy and food crises; financially support ukraine, eu border countries and partners like the republic of moldova; make european funding more flexible; reform the eu.
it has to be said that despite the billions poured into 'green energy', fossil fuels dominate the overall energy mix.
just to give you an example, in germany, which is a leader in green transition, it looks like this: 77% of the country's primary energy comes from oil, gas and coal, and only 5.2% comes from solar and wind.
if the eu wants affordable and sustainable energy, it must stop the madness of the 'green deal'.
it also contributed to the deepening and prolonging of the energy crisis affecting europe.
we must protect all european citizens from the effects of soaring energy prices.
we need to avoid the energy price explosion we experienced in december and january, and we need to start preparing for the next winter now.
finally, we must not allow irresponsible proposals that would jeopardise europe's energy supply and bring the continent to the brink of war.
we need to keep our societies and economies running, and that requires all reliable european energy sources, including nuclear energy.
in the face of russia's brutal aggression against ukraine, energy independence and security of supply must be one of our top priorities.
however, we must also balance the consequences of these actions, which have an impact on high energy prices and pose a real threat to the functioning of european businesses and contribute to energy poverty in households.
we must therefore use all the means at our disposal to make the most of all possible sources of energy, to become completely independent of russian supplies as soon as possible.
in this context, i welcomed the proposal for the repowereu programme, which not only pledges a significant reduction in imports from russia by the end of this year, but also proposes a solution to the problem of rising energy prices for consumers and obliges member states to replenish gas stocks before the coming winter.
it is clear that security changes in our immediate environment dictate the reform of our energy policy.
in my view, diversifying supply routes and focusing on renewable energy sources must help us to ensure two main objectives: (1) security of supply and (2) stable, affordable and competitive prices for both consumers and european businesses.
this crisis offers us an opportunity to move towards a fairer energy union in which the right to clean and affordable energy is guaranteed to every european citizen.
increasing lng imports will result in significant costs for all energy consumers, so we must be careful not to replace one dependency with a new and much more expensive one.
the success of the plan will ultimately depend on two factors: on the one hand, the political will to mobilise significant investments in interconnections, renewable energy sources and clean technologies, and on the other hand, the necessary regulatory decisions to prepare well for the next winter to be taken in a very short time.
europe has had a naive energy policy for years.
the long-term energy security of our continent has been neglected.
dependence on russian energy supplies is now a top priority.
in the short term, to increase economic pressure on russia, and in the long term, to ensure europe's energy security.
joint action cannot be limited to focusing on renewable energy the need for a rational, realistic and multi-dimensional approach.
we need to combine the development of renewable energy with the development of infrastructure that will allow supplies from other countries (i would like to point out here, for example, the baltic gas pipeline) and with a strategic approach to our own extraction of raw materials.
the war on the eastern border of the european union has already affected energy prices, and it's only been a month since the day of the invasion.
if we don't take the right steps to diversify our supply of raw materials, stockpile, strengthen our energy independence and limit the rise in retail prices, things will look very bad before the next winter.
following the russian invasion of ukraine, the european union has worked to address russia's high energy dependence and the associated alarming price increases, as well as to ensure energy security and supply.
the socialists in parliament argue for the need for solutions to tackle rising energy prices, and in particular electricity prices.
these solutions include accelerating the deployment of indigenous renewable energies and short-term measures to decouple the price of gas from electricity.
at the same time, we must diversify our energy supplies and eliminate our energy dependence on russia.
but to take advantage of these existing energy infrastructures, the union needs to increase energy interconnections between the iberian peninsula and france.
member states must actively develop their energy supplies and networks, and russia must be brought to zero, since the eu's security depends heavily on it.
it is important to develop alternative energy sources and to increase financing for renewable energy.
the european union guidelines, implemented by governments that have liberalized and privatised the energy sector, imply the maintenance of oligopolistic markets in which electricity prices are cartelled and where the methodologies adopted guarantee outrageous profits, with huge differences between production costs and consumer prices.
the creation and operation of a carbon market with derived products to be traded on a speculative exchange contributes to the worsening of prices and the european union has responsibilities in the current situation.
madam president, the sixth assessment report of the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change shows the world how the average temperature of the planet has already risen by 1.1 degrees and is affecting natural and human systems in europe.
since the last assessment, the impacts of climate change have increased, resulting in losses in agricultural production, infrastructure or water scarcity.
madam president, the latest ipcc report confirms the climate emergency we're going through.
it also confirms the inadequacy of our current mitigation measures and that adaptation measures are needed to address the risks and harms already caused by climate change.
proof of this was the intense drought we experienced in portugal earlier this year, which affected our agriculture, biodiversity and water supply.
we need to step up our climate efforts.
because we all have a right to a sustainable environment and we must fight for it.
the result is protectionist measures that limit fishing licences for eu vessels, creating unrest in fishing communities, creating uncertainty, causing serious damage and fostering a climate of conflict that benefits no one and should be prevented.
we believe that the european commission should work with all coastal states on appropriate solutions for better control and the adoption of fisheries management measures in accordance with the common fisheries policy and the european ecological pact.
secondly, the use of this area should be based on fisheries management principles and long-term environmental, social and economic sustainability, based on the best scientific knowledge.
mr president, i am here to talk about the outermost regions, which represent 80% of the potential of biodiversity in the european union.
to tackle climate and biodiversity emergencies, it is imperative that we take a holistic approach that values and protects our natural resources.
only then will we ensure sustainable development and a decent future for all generations.
mr president, we have argued that the development of energy infrastructure should be in line with national energy plans and should contribute to the existence of a public service of quality energy supply at fair prices and accessible to all.
public and democratic control of the energy sector is the only way to ensure an economically, socially and environmentally sustainable sector, ensuring stability and security of supply.
this will affect overall salary related expenditure, other indexed expenditure, such as rent, as well as energy bills, both in 2022 and also next year.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
we need technology, we need innovation to cope with the transformative power of the energy transition, to maintain competitiveness in europe.
and more and more new projects - be it the microchip initiative (welcome) or the satellite issue - are becoming important: the issues of energy transition.
i ask you to urgently adopt the measures necessary for our total energy independence, for food autonomy and for the security of our citizens.
as we also strengthen the union's objectives on the environment, transport infrastructure, health and education, we strengthen justice and the rule of law in all member states.
but with the project of the new european bauhaus we have a unique opportunity to use culture to support one of the most important common objectives, one of the most important common european struggles, namely the fight for the climate and the environment.
we can show eu citizens in their everyday lives how the community is fighting climate in an aesthetic, inclusive, sustainable and european way.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the environment.
that is why our political group has called for the european budget for next year to protect citizens against rising energy and food prices, to finance the sectors affected, especially tourism and agriculture, and the creation of new companies, to support programmes in the fields of innovation, education, health and culture.
in this regard, we have integrated the following proposals into the european parliament's common position: additional support for the member states bordering ukraine, but also for the republic of moldova; the implementation of a joint programme to support the elderly; the development of the european medical corps for emergency situations; the creation of a compensation mechanism for the effects of war in order to be able to apply new sanctions against the russian federation; the settlement of the european investment programmes for ukrainian refugees to allow them access to education, health and social services; the financing of investments in the energy sector to reduce dependence on the russian federation.
first, the recovery of the economy to cope with the consequences of the pandemic, but also the impact of the ukrainian conflict on energy prices and inflation.
thirdly, actions and investments for the climate and the ecological transition.
this text includes many of my group’s priorities, like climate and biodiversity protection in the eu, but also throughout the world, where europe should lead and fund concrete actions to tackle climate change and to protect the earth’s biodiversity.
there are other areas where we achieved a good final text, like gender mainstreaming, rule of law, foreign affairs, humanitarian aid, and a good ambition on the funding of key eu agencies that really need to be supported, like, for example, the european environment agency and the european institute for gender equality.
but i would like to however highlight a passage in paragraph 6 that states that the eu should strengthen its energy security and autonomy and develop further the energy union via interconnectivity between member states.
although i agree and we agree with this overall principle, we should refrain from using this energy independence needs to once again subsidise the fossil fuels industry, an area that has led us into a very dangerous and sustainable current situation.
however, as i stated, this is a good compromise text that will influence the commission to propose a pragmatic draft budget that hopefully will lead to a concrete 2023 budget that is as green, sustainable and powerful as it should be.
the response to refugees, to the supply chains of essential goods and raw materials, to the supply and the brutal rise in energy prices, this response must be european, based on solidarity, it must come from the union budget!
in the face of soaring energy prices, in the face of rising inflation, price control must be a top priority, along with support for the vulnerable.
madam president, this resolution points the wrong way to the responses that are needed to deal with the persistence of serious socioeconomic asymmetries within the european union, now aggravated by speculative increases in energy and raw materials, with the brutal rise in the cost of living.
madam president, the measures on energy issues announced by the council leave untouched the essential aspects of the energy market, including the pricing methodology on wholesale markets, which is responsible for the brutal differences between production costs and consumer prices, ensuring huge profit margins for private oligopolistic groups.
the current situation highlights not only the need to regain public control of strategic sectors such as energy, but also to promote national production by reducing production deficits and the external dependence of states.
the adoption of the so-called strategic compass shapes the militaristic path which the european union insists on pursuing, a path which absorbs increasing resources for this militaristic drift, while resources are lacking in combating the deficits in production, energy, food, technology and democracy, in fully financing public services, in combating poverty, injustices and social inequalities.
data has a real value and not just a monetary value, but a value in that it can solve problems and the challenges in medicine, in health care, in industry, in tackling climate change and in delivering better and more effective public services.
we need to further develop and strengthen this cooperation in all key areas such as health, climate change, digitalisation, food security, etc.
– madam president, strengthening cooperation in research and innovation worldwide is essential in tackling together global challenges such as climate change, delivering innovative solutions to them, and fostering societal progress on a global scale.
while joining forces with key non-eu partners with a strong r and i base – we have to join forces with them – but also at the same time we need to scale up cooperation with other partners that maybe don’t have such a strong base, but where research and innovation has a huge potential to accelerate sustainable and inclusive development like, for instance, in africa.
there are many positive aspects to the proposal we are going to vote on, such as multilateralism, gender equality, association with the un sustainable development goals, synergies with the ipcc or other international institutions or even a greater emphasis on small and mediumsized enterprises.
more than an abstract wish for a new right, it is a real roadmap for materializing the right to reparation in concrete actions in the name of sustainability, stimulating local economies and the possibility of keeping with us objects that we are used to and that we love so much.
madam president, organic farming can play an important role in mitigating the effects of climate change and restoring biodiversity.
we also call for the classification of organic salt, which should only be classified as such when it is produced by natural processes, without additives or carbon emissions in its production, which are characteristic of the production of sea salt.
no one, of course, is arguing for unilateral nuclear disarmament, but we can’t wait for an ideal security environment.
they denounced the heavy increase in the cost of living, whether in fuel, energy or foodstuffs.
mr president, there is no denying the role that a sustainable blue economy can play in the prosperity of the outermost regions of the european union, which, because of their insularity, are particularly dependent on certain activities such as maritime transport and tourism.
the protection of the oceans and their marine resources must also be ensured, recognising the potential for biodiversity in the outermost regions.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate and energy transition strategy, including the implementation of the union's climate and energy transition strategy, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate and energy transition strategy.
dear colleagues, in these uncertain times, we need to revise the treaties in order to build a europe that offers certainty, security and the perspective of a sustainable future for everyone.
the need for more coordination, whether political, economic or social, was recognised in order to make europe more resilient to current and future challenges, whether armed conflict, climate change, social inequalities, among others.
but we also have a clear message to convey to the commission and the other institutions and to the council: the problem is that our ability to stand together in the response to russian aggression also depends on our ability to manage the economic and social consequences here in europe, and as we increase sanctions on russia, we also know that the counter-sanctions and the effect of energy prices in europe affect our economy, affect our citizens, and we want to actually maintain european unity, because it has been a great value in the response to russian aggression, and for that, we have to actually support european citizens and businesses.
we must indeed continue to push hard for renewable energy, we must support our companies which are being affected by energy prices, but not the multinationals in the energy sector, which are making obscene profits which should be taxed, and we must certainly support the citizens who are suffering from energy poverty, from the effect of energy poverty, and all those who are supporting the refugees who have come to us.
it is this decision that europeans now expect from the european union in order to respond to the social and economic impacts of war and sanctions on their lives, on the costs of energy, foodstuffs, and in the deepening of a strategic autonomy that creates the necessary instruments.
we therefore hope that the european commission will propose the creation of a programme and the corresponding financing for the energy transition and energy autonomy, but also that it will compensate for the increase in energy costs for people and businesses.
the new priorities must not be allowed to take second place to the european objectives on climate change and digital transition.
mr president, the european union's major competition problem is now making itself felt in the pockets of all europeans with the uncontrollable rise in energy prices.
the european union did not deal with the energy transition when it had the time and the money.
it has pressured the member states, those that could be pressured, to privatize all public energy companies.
he regulated the energy market in a way that guaranteed the energy cartel oligopolistic profits.
and today it does absolutely nothing to combat those opportunistic profiteers who take advantage of a war to multiply their turnover, and this is the same commission that persecutes any state that pursues a public industrial policy, including those aimed at promoting the energy transition that the european commission talks about so much and does so little about.
in doing so, they have lost their homes, their social environment and often their financial autonomy.
the report highlights the importance of the developments already made and what still needs to be done in the energy and environmental protection sectors, among others, as well as the efforts that have been made in the fight against trafficking in human beings, arms and goods and the good cooperation in these areas with the european agencies.
i therefore call on my colleagues to take immediate action for the outermost regions, which will promote effective social and territorial cohesion through air and sea connectivity, employment and access to training, and derogations in the environmental transition, which will enable the outermost regions to adapt fully.
with subsidies and loans for common orders, the people will repay the profitability of the energy groups.
they are imposing the interests of the eu energy monopolies that do business with russia.
the exploration, procurement, production, transport and marketing of the different forms of energy must be in the public domain, under public and democratic scrutiny.
today, as always, the european union needs allies to meet challenges in the areas of security, combating disinformation, foreign interference, protecting critical infrastructure, securing supply chains, combating climate change, ocean governance and preserving the planet's biodiversity.
but today, as my colleagues have said, islands, especially the smaller ones, suffer from structural disadvantages: the islands are characterised by low population density, difficult access to energy and water, poor access to health and cultural services, dependence on transport and an economy almost exclusively based on tourism, fishing or agriculture, despite the potential of the islands.
we have many challenges living on islands: size, population pressure, exceptionalism, double or triple insularity on occasion, dependence on air transport, physical disconnection from the mainland, the costs of exports and imports, difficulties in the labour market, difficulties in being able to access education on equal terms, difficulties in accessing health and water and energy.
we need additional fiscal support to be able to have sustainable tourism.
mr president, one of the main challenges facing the eu's islands, which are becoming more frequent, is the extreme natural phenomena and frequent flooding caused by climate change, which are devastating because of the lack of sustainable management and conservation of agricultural and forestry soils.
in addition to structural disadvantages, our islands, particularly the outermost ones, are still at the forefront of the regions most affected by climate change, suffering from an increase in the frequency and intensity of natural disasters with enormous impact on their economy, their ecosystems, not to mention the cases where they even claim human lives.
the development of the archipelagos of the azores and madeira necessarily requires investment in agriculture, support for small-scale and traditional fishing, industrial development, sustainable tourism and improved accessibility, both between islands and with the mainland.
madam president, when president von der leyen announced her ambitious green agenda and her intention to put the european union in the global leadership of the fight against global warming, nobody said it was going to be easy.
we also call for a just transition to a carbon-free economy, fair to vulnerable sectors and fair to island and remote territories such as the outermost regions, which have a specific legal basis for special treatment that allows them a reasonable time to assimilate the objective, so that it is not unattainable.
i would therefore like to thank those who will be voting on the amendments on the uprs in the emissions trading directive in this strasbourg plenary, because i am convinced that this will give them the timeframe modulated and adjusted to their needs to incorporate renewable energies and to meet the objective of a sustainable, green, blue, circular and innovative economy.
more of the same: a green deal with more rules, more taxes, the corona recovery fund a well-paid cigar from its own box , which the netherlands throws away to reduce nitrogen emissions and offshore wind energy.
the dutch are getting the boot on top of car taxes, carbon taxes and airline taxes.
mr president, mr vice-president, madam minister, i begin by greeting all the rapporteurs of this package entitled objective 55. we cannot have the most vulnerable, the already victims of energy poverty, paying for the climate transition.
we have ambitious climate targets, and we have to have them, but we need to promote social justice here as well.
that's why the social climate action fund is necessary.
the committee on budgets proposes an adjustment mechanism in the event of a carbon market development that benefits citizens and member states.
madam president, mr vice-president timmermans, minister zacharopoulou, europe cannot give up its ambition to lead the fight against climate action.
we owe it to the younger generations, whose quality of life is threatened by the catastrophic consequences of global warming.
i support the unavoidable measures that aim to reduce carbon emissions by 55% by 2030, so as to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. it's the only way to stop the accelerating rise in temperature in our common home, planet earth.
measures are essential to reconcile the energy transition with competitiveness and social cohesion.
with appropriate funding, the energy transition will provide a stimulus for technological innovation and its rapid incorporation into industry and everyday life.
increased energy efficiency and increased use of renewable energy means less dependence on fossil fuels.
it is therefore essential to create the social climate action fund, financially supporting households and their energy consumption, reducing public transport expenditure and helping small businesses.
we need that fund to have a much larger financial allocation, because the climate transition has to be socially fair, respecting the values of the european union and ensuring the essential support of the citizens.
solving the trilemma of price, supply and environmental policy is not easy.
finally, as we approved in the committee on industry, the social climate fund should be available to all smes, especially those affected by the new rules on emissions trading.
is there an urgent need to respond to the challenges of climate change?
first of all, i would like to thank my friend david casa and esther de lange for what they have presented to the social climate fund.
i believe that the fight against climate change is perhaps the greatest socioeconomic challenge of our century.
we are seeing a rise in prices, particularly energy prices, which is simply threatening to many people.
my group is committed to the common goal of making our continent climate-neutral by 2050. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
but if we fail to strike the right balance at the heart of our climate policy, we buy ourselves a clear conscience at best, but we slip into a foolish nimby dependency.
mr president, the target of reducing emissions by 55% by 2030 is a very ambitious one, but also feasible, and i think most of us have taken this target on board, and i, as a romanian mep and chair of the committee on industry, research and energy, have promoted it as a key objective and will continue to promote it.
but this can only be achieved by encouraging and implementing innovative technologies in the fields of energy, environment, industry and agriculture.
what we legislate with this package will have an impact on the economy and on the citizens, and we must be careful to avoid putting even more pressure on an economy already so affected by the energy price crisis, the pandemic and, recently, russia's illegal aggression against ukraine.
we support the financing of natural gas projects as well as investments in nuclear energy.
if this is the case, a carbon tax will mean higher prices on the shelf and higher costs of living in general in regions that are already among the poorest in the eu.
in this sense, it may also jeopardise their economic development and the level of employment in these regions, and hence the importance of ensuring special derogations to allow for full adaptation and a sustainable transition.
mr president, vice-president timmermans has said here that this package for reducing emissions should leave no one behind.
i said that knowing that the insistence on perverse market solutions, which are not only questionable in terms of their effectiveness in reducing emissions but also burden workers and populations, contributing to the increase in the cost of living, as the commission itself acknowledges, justifies the creation of the social fund for climate action to mitigate the socioeconomic consequences of the extension of the emissions trading scheme.
transport accounts for about 25% of total emissions in the european union and shows no downward trend.
co2 performance standards for cars and vans have been a crucial element in limiting emissions from cars driving on our roads, but they are insufficient to respond to the climate emergency.
and the revision that the commission has proposed to respond to the calls of citizens, science and the commitments made in the climate law is a good starting point, improved in this parliament in the report we are going to vote on tomorrow.
the creation of a new trade instrument prohibiting the import and export of products manufactured or transported using forced labour, along with the rules on the duty of care for the sustainability of enterprises, is essential.
madam president, sustainable development is not a soundbite or a fad today, but rather a fundamental necessity to ensure the harmonious development of society and social cohesion across generations, geographies and communities.
the european union cannot just reaffirm a theoretical commitment to the 17 sustainable development goals, it has to put them into practice and assess their performance.
and it should assess its performance because the sustainable development goals are not a political campaign or a media figure, they are the visible face of an environmental, social and economic strategy that aims to raise the quality of life for all.
we can discuss the adequacy and timing of the mechanism, but we must not waste time that could be invested in the implementation of the national plans.
madam president, if there is a problem with the climate ambition of the recovery and resilience fund, it is the lack of ambition, not the successes.
and it's curious that those who in the past have helped to postpone climate targets in the european union are now presenting that perspective as realistic.
the one that chooses to ignore not just the scientific evidence surrounding the climate change emergency, but the very extreme weather events that we're already feeling today, that are already unfolding before our eyes, that these political forces insist on ignoring and insist on not seeing.
they also insist on not understanding that the future of the european economy depends on the acceleration of our continent's energy and industrial transition.
the first one, the war in ukraine, has not reduced, cannot reduce our ambitions as mrr in the post-covid era, in terms of climate and digital transition and more cohesive economies and regions.
it is clear today that a number of factors, some external to the member states themselves, such as inflation or the evolution of raw material and energy prices, are preventing the nextgenerationeu 2023-2026 timetable from being met.
because it was hard to imagine, say a year ago, that one of the leaders of the green party in europe, the staunch climate activist, now the vice chancellor of germany, would announce the re-launch of coal-fired power plants.
mr president, the present situation shows that the security of energy supply must not be dependent on market contingencies which, as has been seen, threaten it.
the process of privatisation and liberalisation of the energy sector, which has done so much harm to the people, is being reversed.
and hence also this need or obligation of countries to secure certain levels of energy reserves, running the risk of replacing one dependency with another and adding harmful environmental impacts.
and we provide full support to member states’ efforts in implementing the united nations sustainable development goals relevant to women’s health: universal access to sexual and reproductive care, family planning and education.
in this regard, specific social measures are needed with regard to access to housing, transport, justice and affordable energy.
this partnership goes through all relevant actors in the indo-pacific, with sub-regional dynamics and specificities, partnerships for common global challenges, such as combating climate change, preserving biodiversity, digital transition for states, citizens and businesses.
many european households and businesses will need solidarity to ensure that they have access to energy at reasonable prices, to buy fuel to heat their homes.
take the example of bulgaria: the average family of three spends a quarter of their income on energy.
the forecasts are for a 30% increase in the cost of energy to heat your homes next winter.
we need to temporarily control energy prices, as we have done in the iberian peninsula, because prices no longer reflect normal market conditions and they are hurting citizens and the economy.
we need to support european households at risk of poverty because of these energy prices.
and to finance all this effort, we need to apply in a coordinated way at european level a tax on the absurdly high profits of many companies, including energy companies, in the context of this crisis.
fighting for an increase in the employment rate and reducing the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion, promoting equality and inclusion, strengthening europe's social dimension in order to also address the challenges of climate change and the digital transition, must remain at the top of the priorities, at the risk of increasing social inequalities in the face of the current escalation of prices.
the sector contributes to the creation of quality jobs, the promotion of equal opportunities, the creation of a safe and well-adapted working environment and social dialogue.
we should also pay particular attention to promoting the social economy and put more emphasis on the flow of good practices in creating the right environment for the functioning of the social economy and stimulating its development through capacity building, providing access to consultancy, coaching, training and legal advice.
mr president, jordi, thank you for your commitment to this report, because to boost the social economy is to boost the resilience and transformation of the union: an environmental and digital transformation, but one that is people-centred.
i listened carefully to the arguments on all sides and, while i am sure that gas and nuclear have a role in the transition, i cannot identify these as sustainable.
we have just completed the corporate sustainability reporting directive, directing companies to invest in a sustainable and clean future.
commissioner, thank you very much for the fact that you have prepared a delegated document which, in the first phase, identifies green technologies, technologies that enable the production of low-carbon electricity, as well as technologies that enable the transition to a low-carbon society.
because for the first time i/we are responsible for energy security and the irresponsible energy policy in germany, put forward by my socialist and green colleagues in 2000, has led us not only to energy but also to military dependence on putin.
nuclear power is low-carbon energy.
today, 50% of all low-carbon energy produced in europe is nuclear.
i am also in favour of the expansion of wind and solar energy, but unfortunately it does not make for a green transition, and the only way to make it is to use gas for the transition period and, in the longer term, nuclear energy.
i also support the view of the committee that, unlike batteries and solar cells, they do not affect our safety during operation or during storage, which is a prerequisite for nuclear energy, even in the long term.
it is part of a process of financialization of the environment which involves, among other things, channelling significant financial flows to emerging businesses around the environment.
according to the advocates of this market approach, the virtuosity of these businesses will lead to the achievement of environmental goals.
finally, reform of the wto within the multilateral system is a necessity if we are to continue to work towards rules-based, fair and sustainable trade.
limit speculative energy prices, support households and businesses that suffer most from the price of gas and fuels.
madam president, commissioner, the eib plays a key role as the public bank of the european union: the climate bank.
i give examples: sustainable finance as an operational model, with 43% of climate-related lending; almost €95 billion on climate change, social cohesion and digital transformation; supports over 430 000 smes employing 4.5 million people; supports key research and innovation projects; in response to the russian invasion of ukraine, an emergency solidarity package was approved.
but the european parliament wants more: it wants to play a role in post-war reconstruction efforts in ukraine; it wants to invest more in energy security and in strengthening the strategic autonomy of the european union; it wants to help prevent and contain growing inequalities by pursuing policies of sustainable growth and job creation.
we have seen serious violations of fundamental rights and all this in a climate of total impunity, in fact.
we can clearly recognize, ready to make a comparison in any place, that the political choices adopted by the bolsonaro government have favored the emergence of this climate of violence and have aggravated the conditions of exploitation of the amazon forest.
human rights and environmental protection are here interwoven in an indissoluble duo, whose defence takes on the dimension of a universal, global, world interest.
i say it: the racist, xenophobic and neo-fascist government of bolsonaro is not only guilty of crimes against biodiversity.
contributing to this has been the current president's confrontational and even offensive language, antagonizing these people and these communities and generating a climate of impunity that fosters violence.
and all of this is happening after a very poor management of the pandemic, it's happening after a disastrous environmental policy in the amazon and it's happening after constant attacks on brazil's electoral system.
the devastation of brazil's natural biomes by fire, pollution and machinery, the attack on indigenous reserves and the illegal appropriation of land are mechanisms used by those who make intensive agricultural production, the capture of protected species or mining their way to accumulate wealth.
unfortunately, it is no longer enough to try to reverse the impact of climate change.
in portugal, the effects of climate change are clear.
nature and the climate, but also agriculture and animal production, are obliging us to do this.
i come from an area where we have combined on the one hand the construction of a hydroelectric power station and irrigation, which takes precedence over energy consumption, and in this way we are trying to solve problems.
mr president, sustainable forest management must take account of aspects such as economic viability, the promotion of the multifunctionality of forests and the sustainability of forest ecosystems.
timber production prices are a crucial issue in ensuring the interest and commitment of small and medium-sized owners in active forest management that defends the forest, promotes its multifunctionality, ensures the sustainability of forest ecosystems and fosters native species.
written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report (a9-0221/2022) by mr niels fuglsang, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on energy efficiency (recast) (com (2021) 0558 c9-0330/2021 2021/0203 (cod)).
– mr president, the proposal for the recast of the energy efficiency directive is of the utmost importance to our energy system for sustainability, affordability and energy security.
apart from the human tragedy that putin has caused, the war has triggered volatility, and uncertainty on our energy markets and the threat of gas disruption this winter is a scenario to be ready for.
at the same time, we have seen images of extreme weather affecting our lives and stressing our energy system, and this keeps repeating over and over again.
energy savings are the quickest and cheapest way to address the current energy crisis.
this is key, as high energy costs are hitting our vulnerable consumers and businesses most.
saving energy directly reduces our energy bills and makes our economy more resilient.
energy efficiency means saving on energy prices, investment costs and system costs.
beyond this winter, structural change at the very foundation of how we use energy every day will help end our dependence on russian fossil fuels faster and protect our economy.
in this way, energy efficiency is a strategic tool to strengthen and safeguard our energy system.
you have shown a true commitment to pushing for the highest ambition in many of the provisions to effectively alleviate energy poverty.
we then decided to increase our target of reducing our energy consumption to 40% by 2030 compared to 2007; pushed for binding national contributions, while leaving flexibility to member states for increased electrification and hydrogen production; ensuring that the public sector effectively plays an exemplary role in the efficiency of its real estate portfolio, while safeguarding the cultural heritage of cities; the commission also called on energy-intensive companies to invest in improving production processes through appropriate accompanying measures.
the present situation requires us to make the time limit short, knowing that the cheapest energy that protects the environment and makes us less dependent on third parties is the energy we do not consume.
mr president, we have no doubt about the potential for renewal and innovation in energy networks, buildings, transport and other public utilities, with a view to greater energy efficiency.
we advocated that the funds mobilised to promote energy efficiency should be excluded from the calculation of the public debt and budget deficits of the member states, so that the necessary investments could be made, but our proposal was not accepted.
we also believe that energy efficiency policies should not contribute to greater social exclusion and worsening of citizens' living conditions through higher housing costs, mobility or energy prices.
we believe that public control of the energy sector is crucial to increasing energy efficiency and to guaranteeing the economic, social and environmental rights of the people.
the commission has proposed, and rightly so, the creation of the social fund for climate action.
this fund is intended to support the most vulnerable in the transition to climate neutrality.
a fund that aims to absorb the disproportionate social impact that climate change will bring, by supporting households, micro-enterprises and tackling mobility poverty.
it can become a decisive instrument in combating inequalities in the process of building the energy autonomy of the european union.
it has created an automatic mechanism to adjust for fluctuating carbon prices.
this means that in the event of an increase in the carbon price, additional appropriations will be made available to the fund, ensuring that the appropriations available in the union budget increase in line with the carbon price.
in summary, the proposal for the revision of the mff, which will be voted on tomorrow, preserves the principle of the unity of the union budget; upholds the treaties, providing that new programmes must be fully integrated into the union budget, respecting the community method; respects parliamentary democratic control; ensures the predictability of financing and multiannual programming and safeguards the transparency of budgetary decisions in the union; consolidates the principle that new initiatives require new resources; and provides that annual reinforcements are integrated into the mff through an adjustment to the fluctuation of the carbon price.
the international community has recognized the need for us to do more, to do better, to protect our oceans and our biodiversity.
it is therefore disappointing that negotiations on the protection of biodiversity beyond national jurisdiction areas, which were aiming for an agreement this summer, have been inconclusive.
today, the crisis is not just one, it's a climate crisis, it's an environmental crisis, it's an ocean and biodiversity crisis.
however, brazil and its citizens are currently experiencing a dangerous and structuring economic, environmental and social crisis.
and so we need to implement, i believe brazilians need to implement, a national development plan that has as its pillar education, the ecologically sustainable reindustrialization of their industry, that they can distribute wealth better, fight violence, fight climate crimes and ensure the projection of this country to the nation that it should be.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about droughts and fires, we also talk about the growing impact of climate change on our lives, which is manifested in the increase in global temperatures, in the heat waves that repeatedly strike europe, or even in storms and floods, so often out of season.
climate change and its consequences are also largely responsible for the rise in food prices for europeans.
and so, looking for solutions for agriculture that do not involve coordinated action to combat climate change and a more sustainable way of life will always be doomed to failure, failure that has also been the expression that applies to the action of many national governments, such as that of portugal, governments that for many years had the conditions and the money necessary to develop better solutions for forest fire prevention, monitoring and combat, but also water management and saving systems, and very little or nothing has been done.
we need to change our model of food production and reduce our food's water footprint, because without that, we'll continue to waste water.
the member states must now act now, at a time when workers are suffering from the current energy price crisis.
the current inflation, energy, food prices will further impoverish people on the minimum wage.
only then will europe be socially strong, sustainable and resilient, especially in times of crisis.
and although we saw at that time that the union was particularly vulnerable to poverty and that there was a phenomenon of working poverty, we have never been more convinced than we are today of the need to act in the face of soaring prices and the energy crisis.
however, given the different economic environment and the different development of social dialogue in the member states, it is essential to leave the details, including the setting of the minimum wage, to the member states.
that is why i think we must vote tomorrow and i very much believe, commissioner, that we must also link this decision with measures to make the economy work, because these increases, which are now also energy, all costs, affect very much especially micro and small and medium-sized enterprises.
madam president, the so-called energy market is characterized by the subordination of the interests of the people to those of the big transnational energy companies, with dramatic consequences for their living conditions, including the worsening of inflation, leveraged by speculation on energy.
regulated tariffs and maximum prices for energy products, electricity and natural gas, reducing vat on electricity and gas and, at the same time, moving towards taxation of excessive or undue profits of all economic groups with energy production or marketing operations, demanding a structural change in the iberian electricity market, putting an end to the marginalist rule in force, since the so-called iberian exception has not changed this anomaly.
these are some of the urgent and necessary measures we are advocating so that the energy situation does not worsen in the coming months.
this is the european union's response to rising energy prices.
the mediterranean is a geopolitical imperative, a strategic partner, notably in building the energy autonomy of the european union, and repowereu is there to support new projects within the framework of this partnership.
migration and human rights, priorities set in 2021 in strengthening the mediterranean partnership, are key, but new challenges are added, the post-covid economic and social recovery, climate change, digital transition and energy transition.
we now expect the commission to show determination and to stop dragging its feet on the council's side in order to reduce the energy bills of households and small businesses.
in his presentation, he listed a number of new initiatives: a european hydrogen bank, a european sovereignty fund, a new programme for smes, a programme for mental health, new energy initiatives and additional capacity for the civil protection mechanism.
to this end, it is envisaged that between 2021 and 2027, the contribution from the european regional development fund (erdf) and the cohesion fund will be 30% and 37% respectively of the union contribution to the expenditure on climate objectives set in the budget, with the aim of making the eu economy climate neutral by 2050.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the industrial strategy must give priority to the supply of food, medicines and medical supplies.
the european industrial strategy must help us to become fully independent of putin's blackmail and attempts, while ensuring the competitiveness of sustainable european industry and businesses.
we must end the european union's energy dependence on russia, on fossil fuels, and the union and the member states must therefore increase energy savings and develop energy efficiency measures.
the profoundly asymmetrical impact of the european union's common policies on the member states confirms the need to recover national sovereignty in areas such as industry, agriculture, fisheries and trade, but also energy.
they are forced to close or go to third countries because here they are drowned out by more and more legislation, such as climate, which leaves them completely out of the game.
the commitment to pursue environmental objectives shows that the happiness of european people and citizens is not their concern.
– madam president, this week’s state of the union by president von der leyen took place against the context of the war in ukraine, soaring energy prices, inflation and supply chain bottlenecks.
now coming to smes business environment.
finally, the transition to a more sustainable way of doing business, the implementation of the green deal and digitalisation of smes.
to advise and support the smes in green transition we introduced the sustainability advisers provided through the new enterprise europe network.
the transition pathways we just discussed in the previous debate will for each industrial ecosystem identify specific constraints faced by small businesses via a set of semi-specific questions.
and then for small and mediumsized enterprises we know very well what the priorities are: the president made some remarks yesterday: we must be more timely, more relevant, not just words, but some real concrete action on the subject of energy for small and mediumsized enterprises, the subject of training of staff, the lack of it, the delay in payments.
the main task now is to help businesses exhausted by covid-19 overcome the energy crisis.
even as the economy slowly recovers from the pandemic, more and more companies are closing their operations and laying off workers because of energy prices.
smes are suffering the consequences of the war in ukraine with difficulties in access to raw materials, to certain agricultural products and with the increase in energy prices.
the measures under the upcoming package should be defined together with the representatives of smes and should deliver as soon as possible: there is no time to waste.
our smes deserve a favourable environment for their development, a skilled workforce and reliable sources of raw materials.
to this you add the usual goals of sustainability and transition that are supposed to solve everything.
yet when the eu discusses the establishment of a social climate fund, which is supposed to help reduce the negative effects of this forced ecological transition, it excludes smes.
unfortunately, despite the declarations that we often hear in this room, the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises after the pandemic and in the face of rising energy prices continues to deteriorate.
many had not yet fully recovered from economic activity and were experiencing new difficulties due to rising production costs, the impact of the international situation and the spiral of inflation, particularly in energy and fuels.
the cost of energy in certain sectors is the biggest cost driver for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, and the increase in speculative fuel prices for gas and electricity could put the continuation of the activity of some of these enterprises in question.
while the speculative profits of the energy transnational corporations remain untouchable, solutions for micro, small and medium enterprises are empty.
we support the regulation of energy tariffs, together with a fund for the support of the treasury, as urgent measures.
therefore, their enormous potential is and should be fully exploited, whether in terms of producing renewable energy, harnessing the potential of biodiversity in these regions or implementing innovative and sustainable pilot projects that change the way society deals with the environment.
it is not just a question of asking for exceptions to take account of their specificities, but also of empowering and providing the necessary regulatory and financial basis for the outermost regions to take the lead in the climate transition within the european union itself.
in the complex, volatile and fast-paced environment in which we live, there is a greater need than ever for smart policymaking and forward-looking solutions.
the proposal considers the impact of russian military aggression and provides responses through a series of flexibilities, which concern several key aspects that also affect the outermost regions, such as madeira and the azores, such as the cohesion policy programmes for 2021-2027 that should strengthen the competitiveness of local economies through the development of tourism and agricultural production or responses to the basic needs of citizens through financing, housing, water supply, waste management, renewable energy and health infrastructure, as well as training and education.
different chargers just brought us tons of e-waste, preventing us from using our old chargers or borrowing from a friend and filling our drawers with useless cables, as alex showed us here today.
it has been more than demonstrated that industry would never create a common charger on its own and that innovation must be guided, as we have done here today, in the direction that benefits people and the environment.
from 2024, we'll have the innovation we need, upgrading the charger whenever there are faster or more energy-efficient solutions.
madam president, the variety of living beings on earth is one of its greatest treasures, and biodiversity is a fundamental asset that we all have a duty to preserve.
we cannot tolerate the constant attack on the planet's biodiversity by those who want to keep endangered species as pets just for fun.
we need to involve the people of the regions, the living forces, the municipalities, we need to create jobs - we all know this - public services, access to very high-speed internet networks, innovate in mobility, preserve the landscape, biodiversity, promote economic activities.
but i have not heard you speak about a very important issue at the moment, which is precisely the freedom of navigation in the red sea and the gulf of aden, which is crucial for energy flows, for european energy security and for the stability of security in the region.
and the action is first done with support for the ukrainians political, economic and military support , but it is also done with more sanctions that weaken the russian economy and its war machine, permanently stopping the purchase of energy, confiscating the assets of the oligarchs and putting them at the service of the reconstruction of ukraine.
enhancing sustainable development in the european union's trade agreements is a longstanding ambition of the socialists and democrats in the european parliament.
the european union must have a clear strategy in the fight against forced and child labour, in the defence of universal human rights, including gender equality, and of social, labour and environmental rights.
we know very well that what has happened is the result of the climate change we are experiencing and the importance of combating this climate change.
in the face of the numerous examples of extreme situations that climate change is placing societies in, with increasingly catastrophic results, as is the case in pakistan, the european union needs to lead the global movement to adapt our urban structures and prevention plans to these types of threats.
we would like to see the plans of many more countries come off the page, because with the energy crisis caused by putin's war, we risk seeing poverty increase instead of decrease.
so it is our responsibility, more than ever, at european level, to find solutions, particularly to combat the price of energy.
rampant inflation and the energy crisis risk raising that number dramatically.
the council discusses proposals to combat the energy crisis, discusses price caps, levies on extra profits, market reform.
we don't have time to waste.
these are the war profiteers, and in the energy sector, with energy prices this high, that's certainly happening.
this was equivalent to 21% of the eu population, and the risks are growing with the current energy crisis and inflation rate.
this is a real blow for workers and businesses, already suffering from the energy crisis and inflation.
they do not accept the degradation of wages, the degradation of pensions, the attack on public services, the speculation in the prices of essential goods and energy.
at the same time, billions of euros are being accumulated in the profits of economic groups, food, energy, large retailers and multinationals.
and let us do so in a cohesive and fair way by building a single energy market, buying and transporting energy together across europe, stopping speculation in energy markets together and looking for resources where they are.
and this is what is happening to the socialist government, the same government which opposed, and will only be dragged along, until the last minute, the taxation of the extraordinary profits of the energy companies and which has just now decided to reduce the taxation of the large companies.
the increase in the price of food, energy or transport is throwing families into despair, families who have a large part of the month left over at the end of their salary.
but there are already many people who cannot afford to heat their homes, living in situations of real energy poverty.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
the money has to go to the people who pay for the energy bills, the record inflation, the drought, the aftermath of the pandemic and putin's war.
member countries are rich and the union has money to make us all better off, but we must stop corruption and all the crimes that plague us, including environmental crimes, from illegal logging to waste trade.
the effect of the pandemic and of the war in ukraine have led to rising inflation, rising energy prices and falling purchasing power across europe.
our political group has pushed for increased resources of around eur 300 million on energy—related measures, including research, investment and the development of green energy, designed to protect citizens against increased energy prices.
inflation and rising energy prices have an impact on all budgets, especially those of our institutions and agencies.
we have to tackle the climate catastrophe that we are on.
and we need to mitigate the huge impacts that energy prices and overall high inflation will have on our citizens’ life.
unfortunately, this goes also for humanitarian needs regarding climate change.
to be able to react to more severe impacts on climate change, although there should also be increases in the parts of the budget that invest on fighting climate change and speed up our efforts.
now, if we want a european response to the impact of war, to rising energy prices, to rising interest rates and food insecurity, to mitigate the social impact, to create a winter solidarity package, how?
if we want capacity to react to the immediate consequences of war, support for refugees, fair burden sharing between member states, support for neighbouring countries; if we want to build a strategic autonomy for the european union, then energy autonomy first.
if we want science and innovation to contribute to these goals, to accelerate environmentally and socially sustainable investment in renewable energy, energy efficiency and saving measures, sustainable technologies that support an industrial policy compatible with the paris objectives; if we want to keep the european single market functioning properly and prevent its fragmentation; if we want to follow up on the proposals that president von der leyen put to us in the state of the union debate: without a review of the mff, we may want to, but we will not be able to give an answer.
– mr president, vice—president šefčovič, colleagues, i’d like to thank the commission for its strong work on the assistance for ukraine, the sanctions against russia and the measures responding to the disruptions in the energy markets.
the renewed strategy for the outermost regions, published in may 2022, sets out the priorities for eu action to support the recovery and sustainable growth in its outermost regions, realising their growth potential and helping to close the quality of life gap between these regions and the rest of the union.
we saw this happen in the negotiations of the legislative package fit for 55 and it is up to the co-legislators the european parliament and the council of the european union (eu) to ensure that these regions are protected, as well as to ensure that the potential of the climate transition is realised in them, leaving no one behind.
it calls for better consideration of specificities in future legislative proposals in areas such as the environment, economic governance, digitalisation and others.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we know that the challenge of climate change is enormous and must be met.
for this reason, this parliament has been the most ambitious european institution in demanding the climate transition.
as we know, europeans are doing the most to combat climate change.
this is also why actions by activists who do nothing more than damage art and heritage are nothing more than media spectacles that we should condemn and that have no practical consequence and no gain for the planet or the environmental cause.
it is not by destroying cultural heritage that we preserve environmental heritage.
we know our priorities for this cop 27. the unjustified russian invasion of ukraine makes the european energy transition even more urgent.
in addition to the death and destruction he is spreading, putin is damaging the european and world economy and is one of the main responsible for the prolonged operation of coal-fired power stations and their consequences on the environment.
but our autonomy can be guaranteed and energy prices can be brought down with investments in renewable energy.
the repowereu plan further increases the eu's climate ambition beyond the ongoing reductions resulting from the european climate law and may go beyond the 55% emission reduction targeted by 2030. we therefore ask the council and the national governments what is lacking, apart from political courage, to endorse parliament's positions on this matter?
and the european political leaders who are now blocking energy interconnections, particularly with the iberian peninsula, must be denounced.
and we have to say, there are european leaders who are blocking energy interconnections with portugal and spain so that they can sell more expensive energy to the rest of europe and thereby block solutions that would help people get access to cheaper, renewable energy.
we need to meet the targets for public and private investment to slow down and adapt to climate change, with consequences as severe as those we have seen across europe.
the poorest countries must be supported in their transition to clean energy and we must rapidly and strategically increase investment in innovation and clean technologies.
cities, as the territories where a large proportion of the population and greenhouse gas emissions are concentrated, need to play a more relevant role in mitigating and adapting to climate change.
the climate crisis is very much present in our daily lives, and while there are signs that call for more action, we have been putting off efforts that we can do today until later.
we need to control energy prices and buy it together, as we did with vaccines, to make the use of european funds more flexible, to strengthen public services, to make public transport cheaper, in short, to improve social responses, as we are doing in portugal.
madam president, commission, council, we were pleased to hear president von der leyen list the measures which are now leading to a reduction in the energy bills of europeans and the gradual building of the energy autonomy of the european union.
are we heading for the necessary union for energy?
we recognize the developments, albeit late, in the energy files, but we are seriously concerned by the demonstrated inability to maintain a united front in support of ukraine with regard to macrofinancial support.
the support for european households and small businesses that suffer from energy costs must also be given a certain amount of attention.
my political family, through its leader iratxe garcia pérez, has just presented a winter solidarity plan for european families, with 15 concrete proposals for action that go far beyond the control of energy prices, although it is necessary.
mr president, the repowereu proposal was presented as favouring the energy transition and the energy independence of the european union in relation to other territories.
in fact, apart from the advertising, what we have is a proposal that is very small in terms of resources and funding, which is actually guaranteed by issuing more pollution licences, the first contradiction, and by changing the already weak guarantee that we had approved during the recovery and resilience fund, that it would not cause significant damage, which basically disappears and opens the door, perhaps better said, to the return of fossil and nuclear energy.
and so, while the european commission is talking about the magnificent european commitment to combating climate change in egypt, here in brussels we are doing the exact opposite, changing the dependencies and bringing back everything we said we were going to avoid.
madam president, commissioner, repowereu is a key instrument in the immediate mitigation of the effect of the galloping increases in energy prices.
it is an instrument for speeding up the internal energy market, which will not be achieved without meeting ambitious interconnection targets.
for example, investment in energy interconnections between portugal, spain and france is necessary.
the final energy deal with the iberian peninsula is urgent.
repowereu is an instrument, it has to be an instrument, to accelerate the green transition and energy decarbonisation.
it is a tool to support renewable energy.
finally, the socially inclusive chapter we have achieved in repowereu will have a significant impact on the lives of citizens and businesses and on preventing and tackling energy poverty.
the updating of member states' recovery and resilience plans is necessary following the invasion of ukraine by the russian federation, and the resulting energy crisis, which has demonstrated the need to ensure energy independence and significantly increase the use of renewable energy in the european union (eu).
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states.
in this process, the european union's climate and biodiversity objectives stemming from the european green deal, which coincide in every way with the eu's need for energy independence, should not be forgotten.
it will also be important to ensure, as far as possible, respect for the principle of 'do no significant harm', especially in the choice of projects to be funded in the future, with a clear priority to be given to renewable energy projects rather than fossil fuel-based ones.
the latest un emissions report worryingly acknowledges that we are not on track to meet the goals of the paris agreement, and national commitments to reduce emissions and avoid fossil fuel infrastructure should be increased.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
madam president, unlike many, we believe that profitable private investment is key to funding the climate transition we need and to which we are committed.
and to do that, we need capital markets and investors large and small to channel their resources to sustainable investments and to promote economic growth that respects the planet.
but for that to happen, investors need more transparency about companies, allowing them to know the impact of the company's activity on the planet, but also the impacts of climate change on their bottom line.
transparency and sustainability are the two key words.
and this is a transformative vision where large companies are not just reporting their financial results, but they're also reporting their environmental, social and governance results.
this legislative change represents a new paradigm in corporate accountability and, while enhanced reporting on sustainability may not be enough on its own, it is an important incentive for more sustainable corporate decision-making and governance.
mr president, another conference and the prospects for a serious and effective fight against climate change are not encouraging.
how can they discuss reducing emissions, an energy transition or stopping the destruction of ecosystems without getting to the bottom of the matter?
because of these temperatures, there are outdoor stadiums with air conditioning at a time when the world is grappling with a tremendous energy crisis.
they are certainly hungry, cold, and lack energy.
especially when it's tough economically -- with the pandemic, with putin's aggression in ukraine, with inflation and the climate crisis -- we need resilient, strong companies in the european union, and we're only going to get there if those companies finally get women on board and driving.
this is a clear waste of human capital.
while the advancement triggered by voluntary initiatives was much slower and less sustainable.
and this is a step that will benefit all europeans, because we cannot waste talent.
the european union wants to take the world into its own hands through legislation and regulation, through anti-money laundering legislation, sustainability rules such as the csddd and gender provisions.
this directive is not only good for women, it is good for the progress, the sustainability and the success of our european companies and economy.
the example i gave on medicine, i think it clearly shows that it is possible for women to choose a career and to make a career in a specific type of environment they would like to seek to make their career.
the deal we have reached reflects our common priorities, in particular addressing the consequences of the war in ukraine, the severe energy crisis combined with the historically high level of inflation, the disruption of global supply lines and the enduring post-pandemic recovery, all in addition to fighting climate change and fostering the eu’s green and digital transition.
the rapporteurs have already explained the reinforcements for parliament’s priorities, with emphasis on ukraine, moldova, tackling the energy crisis, building solidarity lanes, strengthening erasmus+, life, smes, eu4health, creative europe, rights and values programmes, as well as the european solidarity corps, reinforcing migration funds, providing funds for military mobility, supporting the eastern and southern neighbourhood, the key global europe programme and strengthening the asylum agency and eu—lisa – just to list a few agreed reinforcements.
it would also support the ongoing sustainable recovery from the coronavirus pandemic by maintaining and creating jobs.
the priorities are very well defined, including the political priorities of my group: horizon here we use article 15 of the financial regulation, connectivity energy and transport, small and medium-sized enterprises, eu health, creative europe, clean energy transition and the eastern partnership.
if we want a more united and stronger european union, that provides adequate responses to the war in ukraine and to managing the effects of the pandemic, that truly protects european citizens in the context of runaway inflation and the energy crisis, or that lives up to our common expectations, we need a more ambitious budget.
we negotiated until the last minute to protect european programmes and policies that are essential for our citizens in the current context, we managed to get additional funds to combat rising energy prices for the transport sector, for smes, for education, for young people, for the environment or for culture.
we will have to face many challenges: consequences of the war in ukraine, consequences of the pandemic, energy and economic crises.
so we have a more ambitious budget for health, for energy, for climate, for defence, for transport, for managing our borders and for helping our ukrainian neighbours.
we also need to prepare for climate change, to limit its effects.
that is why we voted here in strasbourg for an ambitious climate package.
– mr president, dear all, europe is facing multiple crises with the war in ukraine, the fossil energy dependence, the inflation and the growing climate collapse.
that is why it was so vital that we reach an agreement on making the eu more resilient to the challenges we currently face through the eu budget for 2023. and our 2023 budget shows focus: focus on helping people both in european union and in the rest of the world; focus on supporting citizens affected by the economic downturn; focus on restoring nature affected by climate change; and focus on those who are most affected by war.
we have made substantial reinforcements for the environment and climate, energy and health policies, and we also have strengthened the support for our eastern and southern neighbourhoods, and we also have increased the budget for humanitarian aid.
the council should approve them in the necessary timeframe, already approving the emissions trading scheme and the border carbon adjustment mechanism as new own resources of the european union budget.
in the future, when these instruments are exhausted, how will the financing be provided for the investments needed for europe's strategic autonomy, the climate transition, the digital transition, without avoiding the fragmentation of the internal market?
on the one hand, china's size and the role it has and can have in the world make it important for us to cooperate on common challenges such as the climate crisis, global food security or the promotion of global peace and security.
we need to develop a sustainable and holistic approach based on the obligatory solidarity between all the member states in sharing their responsibilities in the light of international law, whether in the matter of rescue or in the matter of international protection.
we need direct support to the families most affected by energy poverty.
mr president, the climate emergency cannot be separated from the biodiversity crisis, where we are seeing the degradation of ecosystems and the accelerated extinction of species.
we therefore need an agreement that is binding against degradation and in favour of restoration, recognising the value of areas of high biodiversity, such as the outermost regions of the european union, whose biodiversity is linked to sectors such as tourism, agriculture and fisheries, among others.
this is why it is important that we ensure a strategy and funding that promotes the sustainable development of these regions and the recognition of one of their greatest assets: biodiversity.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
issues such as territorial balance, technological sovereignty, the efficiency of public services and administration, energy sustainability or social cohesion are also at stake.
it is through economic reforms and education that we create sustainable development for the future and not through inefficient bureaucracy that creates waste.
and the portuguese young people have asked for the four commitments that my colleague joão albuquerque spoke about, but they also ask for: investing in energy independence through renewable energy; promoting the professional retraining of those who lose their jobs due to the digital transition; cleaning up the oceans; protecting biodiversity; the ratification by the european union of the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and a european strategy on mental health.
at the same time that we've increased our productivity and our gdp, we've been able to reduce our emissions.
we can do more, like in electricity interconnections and the energy union.
but in this cop27 we have seen the lack of results on the most important of the issues - and the vice-president of the commission has just mentioned it - namely the reduction of emissions.
what is the point of funding the poorest countries to combat the effects of climate change if the most polluting countries continue to pollute and exacerbate the problem?
in europe, we have shown leadership in raising the 2030 targets for reducing emissions.
we are the main funder of the fight against climate change in developing countries, but we have not been able to have a mobilizing agenda with the biggest polluters: china, the united states and india.
our climate diplomacy has not been producing the necessary results and this is an important reflection that we must make without delay with the commission and the council.
a profound transformation must be initiated and the intrinsic links between the climate crisis, the biodiversity crisis and the oceans crisis must be recognised, through the end of fossil fuel subsidies and investment in renewables, ensuring accountability of the textile sector, tackling the plastic pandemic, misinformation and unsustainability.
but most importantly, renewable energies can bring industry and employment and rebalance the economic driver back into our rural areas.
we need to create the right environment.
it’s the heart of our food production system and is central to protecting our biodiversity and building a sustainable environment into the future.
this justifies the interest and importance of drawing attention to a response that attempts to address these difficulties, including through the recognition of their enormous potential in areas of major importance: food and agricultural production, renewable energy production, protection of biodiversity, among others.
we agree on many things: we need to accelerate to meet the renewable targets - no question.
we also need to talk about energy efficiency, renewables and savings.
in the case of biogas, we have to recycle waste, obviously, and not rely on building corn power plants.
unfortunately, the epp wants to eliminate a few environmental laws in this whole legislation.
dear markus pieper: it is not only environmental associations that are hindering the expansion, but also excessive distance regulations in some federal states such as bavaria.
because the only effect that these sanctions are having at the moment is that we here in europe and the people in europe are feeling that energy is getting more and more expensive and soon it will no longer be affordable.
the failure of energy policy in recent decades has led to the fact that people are no longer able to heat their homes, and that we, for example, are no longer able to heat our three sites, which we so badly need.
but one thing remains: we will not be able to meet the energy demand for 2030, 2035, when we know that electric mobility will increase dramatically, with wind turbines.
the directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources has already been amended twice.
we will therefore support the acceleration of the authorisation procedures for renewable energy projects, a better definition of access areas, criteria for the establishment of sites of public interest.
in parallel to our legislative work, the european commission has proposed a new temporary council emergency regulation to accelerate the implementation of renewable energy production under article 122. and even though we have serious reservations about the far too frequent use of article 122, the european parliament has taken account of and is coordinating its position with this commission initiative.
we firmly assure european citizens that we will work effectively with member states, with the support of the commission, to have the best legislation, to find solutions to the current price crisis and to achieve our ambitious climate targets.
the european parliament, together with the member states, is serious about developing renewable energy.
if we reach 45% renewable by 2030, we can save 200 billion euros that we don't have to invest in fossil fuels.
i am glad that we have discussed and agreed broadly here in the house, but also in the council, on the simplification of procedures which we need in order to have more renewable energy and to develop it more rapidly.
no more environmental audits for biomass power plants: it's dangerous, it doesn't make sense and it doesn't help anyone.
it would be much more helpful in the states to abolish unnecessary renewable waste land in federal states such as bavaria.
madam president, europe is undoubtedly in need of a complete transformation of its energy system, which requires key decisions on energy policies, the pace of decisions on an efficient energy transition and energy independence.
the implementation of repowereu will accelerate the deployment of renewable energy sources in europe, encourage further enhancement of energy efficiency as an important component of the whole system and ultimately lead to increased energy savings, energy security and independence.
in ten years, nuclear fusion might power a completely decarbonised energy system.
shall we keep pouring water on conventional nuclear plants and sweep their waste under the rug?
this is the cheapest and fastest way to decarbonise the energy system now.
and we need to accelerate because the climate crisis does not wait for administrative procedures to be done.
citizens are actually the power that our renewable energy system is built on.
madam president, this strategic plan proposes to intervene in the energy system, reacting to developments in this sector since last year, aggravated by the consequences of war and sanctions which, in accordance with the agenda of the united states of america, are sacrificing the peoples of europe.
as in the past, household consumers will bear the cost of the so-called single energy market, while the large economic groups, which exploit the sector and resources, rub their hands and accumulate profits.
we believe that it is necessary for the states to intervene in the exploration, supply, production, transport and marketing of the various forms of energy, which should be in the public domain, under public and democratic control.
this is the socially and environmentally sustainable way.
we encourage the creation of a legal and political framework for respect for social, labour and environmental rights and for fostering support for civil society organisations in the region, countering the shrinking of civic space in several asean countries.
at the next council, energy solutions and economic responses must go hand in hand.
we need to extend the iberian mechanism which has already enabled portugal to reduce the energy bills of households and businesses by eur 360 million compared to the scenario without this mechanism.
that is why the socialist and democratic group is proposing an energy emergency package, earmarking money for this from the european budget.
we hope that the outcome of this council will alleviate the energy problem we are experiencing, so that european citizens can start the year 2023 with the hope of better days.
it is good to see the energy interconnections item on the agenda and here i would like to highlight the portugal-spain-france agreement, which is so important for ending the iberian island, so important for promoting and deepening the internal energy market and the energy union.
families, especially the youngest, are facing escalating food prices, significant instability in energy prices and a tremendous rise in housing credit.
the commission regrets the consequences of speculation in finance, distribution and energy, but it does nothing to stop it, and governments like mine freeze wages and pensions, imposing a definitive cut to all people who have lived or live by their work, while offering tax breaks to capital income.
madam president, in portugal food products increased by 18.9%, bottled gas by 19.5% and energy products by 27.6%.
meanwhile, big business in distribution, energy and banking is making record profits at the expense of speculation in the prices of goods and services, low wages, precariousness, increased exploitation of labour and the impoverishment of the people.
unexpected challenges have come to the eu budget: support for ukraine in its different dimensions, support for people and businesses to mitigate the economic and social consequences of the war, the impact of energy and food prices, or the effect of rising inflation.
the current mff, as it stands, is not equipped to finance emerging policies such as climate transition and compliance with the paris agreement, increased defence cooperation, the creation of a sovereign fund for strengthening the strategic autonomy of the european union, the building of energy autonomy, where repowereu has to become a key instrument, the implementation of the integrated circuits regulation, the social climate fund, which must be in the budget of the european union.