even for this sustainability, the fight against climate change were not for david one of the many paragraphs to be inserted into a speech about europe.
i heard him speak last summer in montepulciano about the sustainability goals with renewed strength and vision, with a new vision that fascinated the younger generation and led them to understand immediately that for a green and sustainable future we must want a stronger europe, because the national level is not enough.
every blow we take today to european integration pushes further away the goal of sustainability, further away the promise of a world still habitable a hundred years from now, still as beautiful as today.
beyond the health emergency, he never lost sight of the defence of the rule of law, on our continent and elsewhere, this defence that he carried throughout his mandate, as well as the climate and migration issues, campaigning for a new common pact, for a stronger ambition.
and that's not always natural in the environment that we're in.
a second topic i would like to touch on briefly is the issue of sustainability, which is also a priority of your presidency.
sustainability, for me, means not living at the expense of future generations.
to return to the age of austerity and rigorism - as some in the council and here would like to see it - means to stop the enormous investments in a new model of growth which is more environmentally sustainable and more socially equitable, in order to build the kind of europe you have mentioned.
paris has put businesses on the path to sustainable development.
now is the time to put these rules in place at european level to ensure the sustainable management of companies and their value chain.
investors themselves are calling for clear and transparent rules on corporate sustainability.
is paris prepared to ensure that the brussels effect will now occur after the paris effect on sustainable business practices?
will the french presidency make rapid progress on the upcoming sustainable corporate governance initiative?
it is clear that progress and growth can only be generated by a reliable and affordable energy supply.
it is therefore particularly welcome that you, mr president macron, in contrast to many other heads of government, are facing reality and are clearly committed to modern nuclear energy.
the only way to reduce the climate and at the same time ensure a high standard of living is to have reactors of modern design.
it is not a question of ideology but of technology which form of energy supply is green and sustainable.
without nuclear energy, ambitious climate targets cannot be met.
if you look at the number of topics which we’ve been discussing today, ranging from the hard security challenge to the east of our borders, to issues of social fairness, economic and climate policy, and migration, down to the economy and the need for strategic autonomy, all this just testifies to what kind of crucial times we are living in, and in what kind of a crucial time, mr president, your presidency is arriving to head the european union.
we adopted a commitment to be the first continent in the world to be climate neutral, and we are working a lot and delivering in the area of defence.
it will make it possible to establish obligations at european level for european companies along their value chain, concerning respect for human rights and the environment, which will allow me to return to another question raised later, and companies will be subject to a reporting obligation.
on topics, especially energy, migration, it is important.
as far as i know, there has never been a cult, a myth or an objective of zero debt or zero deficit in our texts, not least because in the current interest rate environment this would be counter-cyclical macroeconomically.
we are all saying: we must invest in climate change.
and so, this mass of public investment, if we want to remain independent, ambitious on the climate, ambitious on the military, social, industrial level, we have to take it on.
if we want to achieve the decarbonisation targets set by the european green deal, we cannot ignore the fact that the implementation of the ets will reduce emissions by 10%.
i understand that france will not work very hard on the ff55 package, but even so i welcome the french presidency of the council's objective of persuading the member states to adopt a customs duty on the amount of co2 emitted to the atmosphere for the production of goods imported into the european common market, in other words, the implementation of the so-called carbon border adjustment mechanism (cbam).
i was particularly interested in the areas of digitalisation, the automotive industry, energy, the recovery plan and budgetary policy.
france's six-monthly presidency of the eu council comes amid a backdrop of overlapping crises (geostrategic, energy and health).
the digital revolution is great, the fight against climate change is uplifting, but let's first lift europe out of the specter of war, poverty and infection!
i was disappointed by the absence in mr macron's speech of any reference to the revision of the stability and growth pact and of any clear proposals on energy.
mr wieland, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the online environment has been created and developed by young people who are driven by innovation, who have used their imagination and knowledge in a completely new field.
as we have an innovative approach in the online environment, we need a flexible approach in the legislation in this area.
you can vote until 3 p.m. the results of the second round of voting will be announced at 4 p.m. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
as regards direct support, cities under the 2021—27 cohesion programme period, 8% of the european regional development fund, so around eur 17 billion, are ringfenced for sustainable urban development projects selected by the cities themselves.
and our new european urban initiative will finance experiments in making urban development more sustainable and more participative.
we hope that the new european powerhouse initiative aiming for inclusiveness, sustainability and aesthetics in the places where we work and live will also be of interest to cities, and i hope that we will see cities embark on this transformational challenge as well.
the commission’s renovation wave and the affordable housing initiative will support local actors in their efforts to increase energy efficiency for a fairer transition.
we agree, too, that future cities must be sustainable.
i have already mentioned the ring-fencing for sustainable urban development within cohesion policy.
as you know, the eu supports cities through various other initiatives, including the intelligent cities challenge, the urban mobility framework, the 100 climate neutral and smart cities by 2030 mission or learning cities to ensure cities are sustainable, resilient, innovative and inclusive.
as the epp group responsible for this resolution, i first highlighted that post-covid economic recovery and urban development will be considerably hampered by rising energy prices.
i have therefore asked the commission to take measures to strengthen the resilience of the european energy market, to reduce its dependence on external factors and to ensure energy at reasonable prices.
in addition, i have called for the encouragement and funding of massive building insulation and rooftop solar programs to increase the energy autonomy of public and private buildings.
– urban areas are facing a triple crisis in the wake of the pandemic: tackling the health impacts of covid-19; dealing with the climate and ecological emergency; and addressing social and economic inequality.
although it is too early to know what the longer—term legacy of the pandemic will be for urban environmental sustainability, it is clear the unprecedented eur 1.8 trillion stimulus package agreed by the eu will reshape cities in fundamental ways.
the infrastructure investment will play an important role in stimulating urban economic activity after the crisis, creating an opportunity to align the recovery with climate, environmental and social equity agendas in cities.
this is because this is not a humanitarian crisis caused by conflict or by climate or by a natural disaster, as david miliband told the senate foreign relations committee last week, this is a catastrophe of choice.
the impact on farms in various regions of the country puts the need for irrigation, with the inevitable increase in production costs, in the context of the rise of other factors such as energy and fuels, and the crushing of production prices and reduced incomes.
the energy crisis in europe forced fertiliser factories to reduce their production and inevitably led to higher prices.
the increase in energy prices generates price increases along the entire supply chain, directly affecting not only farmers but also consumers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we now have four times higher energy prices and shrinking energy stocks, and this crisis in the european union has deeply affected vulnerable consumers and the european union's economy.
i think in the medium and short term, it's essential that the european union buys gas stocks for all the member states and we also have to think that the transition to green energy is essential, but before we give up what we have now, we have to be prepared for this step, so that it doesn't produce the shocks that we are experiencing these days, because they produce real drama among the citizens of the european union.
véronique, the french minister for agriculture, said yesterday in the environment committee that the reference to the who was not necessary.
we have to make it a priority to decouple from strategic dependencies that can be used against us: energy, strategic natural resources, advanced technologies, especially when those dependencies are on non-democratic states.
and, returning to putin and ukraine, we must take on with concrete resources and commitments an increased presence in the black sea region, a region of strategic importance from the point of view of security and energy.
at least for the moment, the solutions for european security are: accelerating the process of gaining energy independence from russia, deterring russia militarily and economically, and ending political compromises in favor of russia.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the enormous energy crisis we are experiencing has caught us by surprise just as we are moving towards the green deal.
this is absolutely necessary, but it is also imperative to commit programmes to the maintenance of long-term and sustainable development objectives.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european energy charter is a step in the right direction, and it is a step which will be taken in the near future.
and secondly, the visible reduction of structural inequalities and fair socio-ecological conversion are crucial for cohesion and resilience in the eu.
exactly as we reacted when covid occurred, we should see where we can introduce more flexibility, where we can eventually amend the co—financing rate so that member states can use the money on the ground where it is needed, including to alleviate the consequences of increased energy prices and help the most vulnerable people affected by the increase of energy prices.
the pandemic that followed has had and is having a severe impact on our population, but also on our economy, and the war in ukraine will affect not only the energy market, but the economy as a whole.
we are talking about a period in which we will have to overcome challenges as best we can, and this can only be achieved through close cooperation between the authorities, those who have to program the cohesion funds, civil society and the economic environment.
my other comment is in relation to certain members that referred to the need to stop the dependence from russia in relation to energy.
cohesion funds are supporting very much renewables, as we all know, and climate targets.
the investment must be in the real economy and in line with the climate and social objectives of the union.
we want to create an environment where fair competition is a real attribute.
the third challenge is energy.
it's important that we don't finance the aggressor and achieve energy independence from russia as soon as possible.
we need to act together in building energy infrastructure, in joint purchasing, as well as in developing renewable resources.
it will come and they are already starting and they will be harvesting the fear of people, they will be fuelling the fear of people, because there will be increased crises and there are already increased crises of energy.
not just because of war, not just because of rising violence, not just because of rising conflict, not just because of climate change, not just because of corona, not just because of the shortage of manpower, not just in the nursing field.
we must therefore maintain this political will for a new approach to a common policy on asylum and migration with a fair distribution key, for an independent energy union and a social union, for a common foreign, security, defence and development policy.
the proposals approved by the european commission to promote our energy independence are certainly a first step forward, but we need european, not national, ceilings on energy prices, but we also need a plan for food independence.
funds to support enterprises facing increased sanctions burdens, common migration policies, common industrial and energy policy, common defence, green transition and raw material storage infrastructure.
in this particular case, however, of a war between the union's main energy supplier, such as russia, and the union's main supplier of corn, rapeseed and sunflower seed, such as ukraine, the consequences can be devastating.
but we also need to think clearly about how we can collectively respond to that investment to accelerate energy independence, something slightly different from what we've done with the new generation eu.
we have been through a pandemic which presented a challenge but also an opportunity to relaunch our economies and society, while accelerating the dual transition to green and digital in a more sustainable, resilient and inclusive manner.
now, an irresponsible act of aggression of an independent country is creating a humanitarian crisis, an energy crisis and most certainly will reflect in economic and social consequences dire for the european union.
then there was the energy crisis, which still weighs on the shoulders of european citizens and puts all member states to the test.
as difficult as the situation is, it is essential that in these times we have the capacity to coordinate our policies so that we can support the business environment, provide it with a predictable and stable framework, act with a lot of responsibility, because only through investment can we create new jobs, we can offer our citizens more security.
and that is precisely what is contained in the 8th environmental action programme which we are voting on.
pressure from the european parliament has ensured that the ambitions for environment and sustainability are higher than in the commission's original outline.
at the same time, we have ensured that there is a holistic approach, where climate and the environment are not seen as being disconnected from the economy or from the way we should be structuring our societies.
the eu must be climate neutral and circular, and biodiversity must be increased.
with the 8th environment action programme we are taking another important step towards a more sustainable world.
a world where we're free of pollution and dangerous chemicals, leaving behind a greener planet than the one we've taken over.
we cannot delay managing the crises we face, we cannot stop the efforts to reduce emissions, pollution, protect biodiversity and human health.
at this point, the warnings from the scientific community about the climate crisis are getting more and more dire.
the effects of climate change will wreak even more havoc, throwing the world into food insecurity, storms, fires, heat waves, floods.
we can't continue to fund putin's military and war - you heard right, yes, we have funded this - through energy dependence on imports.
it's not going to be easy, it's not going to be popular, for many of the member states, but not implementing climate action will come at a cost, eventually.
the climate is changing as a result of human activity, and the change is accelerating because we're doing nothing.
we all know that the industry has to transform, that it has to become greener, more circular and sustainable, take full advantage of digitisation and push reuse, recycling and waste reduction.
president, sustainable, green, conscious, recycled polyester ... as you walk through a clothing store, these terms are increasingly appearing on labels and posters.
and this exploitation behind a false facade of sustainability must end.
it is simply cheating at the expense of those who want to do what is right, and at the expense of people and the environment.
i think it is time for action, action against greenwashing, action for a sustainable sector, one that benefits people and the environment rather than being the butt of it.
madam president, the new strategy for sustainability in the fashion industry should, first of all, address the needs of consumers.
it is time because textile consumption in europe helped to leverage the fourth highest impact on the environment and climate change from a global lifecycle perspective in 2020. after food, housing and mobility, the clothing industry has one of the highest impacts on the planet since it represents 11 kilos per citizen in textiles and it produces about 20% of global wastewater and around 10% of global carbon emissions.
in this regard, i insist that it is also important to support actions at eu level in order to increase the effectiveness of extended producer responsibility schemes by establishing an eu level definition for obligated producer and an eu level classification for when textiles become waste.
we must ensure that the future will lead from fast fashion to sustainable clothing, meaning that we cannot accept half of working practices, overextraction of raw materials and high energy consumption.
but the effects on the population of the european union have been seen for a long time, in the increase in unemployment among textile workers, mostly women, when factories were relocated to areas in asia -- as i said earlier -- where workers' rights or the impact on the environment are less regulated.
so far no one has taken into account the environmental costs of these relocations, but with the green deal we need to assess the impact of pollution on the products we consume in the eu, even if they are produced elsewhere, if we want to talk about fair competition.
but for food security, we need even more measures, well calculated, such as: adapting national strategic plans to the new reality, postponing provisions that may reduce production, increasing the percentage of advance on subsidies, viable solutions for total independence of european production, aid for producers affected by the energy and fertilizer crisis and above all support for states that can fill the gap left by ukraine on the agri-food market.
with a fixed zero euro budget for agriculture in the pnrr, romania needs the reopening of the plan, without changing the amount allocated, to invest in sustainable water management systems and agricultural product storage facilities.
a severe recession presented the new government with very difficult tasks: socially sustainable structural reforms, greening of the economy including energy production, the rule of law, the fight against corona.
the war in ukraine has made it even clearer that the european union's energy dependence on russia must be drastically reduced as soon as possible.
we must all agree that our energy resources cannot be left to the aggressor in war for the long term.
the war-induced spike in energy prices is not only dealing a severe blow to the economically most vulnerable in society, but we are already seeing that european agriculture, producers and the business sector are also being affected.
we must therefore explore all possible options to enable the european union to meet the repowereu plan and reduce its energy dependence on russia by one third by the end of the year, while avoiding energy price impoverishment.
a key element is the increased diversification of energy sources.
nuclear energy will continue to be needed, but the transition to green energy produced in the eu must be accelerated in parallel.
the development of innovative new green technologies and the more efficient use of renewable energy sources will be needed to meet our energy needs adequately while meeting our climate change objectives.
in conclusion, i would like to emphasize the reduction in energy taxation as a necessary step by the member states, which is essential to ensure affordable energy for all.
the escalation of the arms race, the policy of economic, commercial, financial, cultural and sporting sanctions, the authoritarian drift and the imposition of a single thought do not serve the cause of peace or the interests of the peoples, they serve the profits of the military industry, the speculators, the direct beneficiaries of the redirection of energy dependence, new attacks on labour and social rights, reactionary and anti-democratic concessions.
mr vice-president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the last year more and more families have been unable to pay their energy bills, their heating bills.
we see how the price of energy is becoming a burden on people's budgets every day.
the very tense relations with russia make it even clearer that the european union must have a common european strategy in the energy sector, but above all it shows us that it is time to think about a strategy for household consumers.
now that we've established that we're going to go to renewable energy, it should only be a matter of organization, funding and the will to make all homes energy independent.
the energy that a family uses every day can and should be produced at home by solar panels, by mini wind turbines, by any other means that ensures energy independence of the homes.
mr president, commissioner urpilainen, ladies and gentlemen, the creation of an interconnected energy infrastructure at eu level is a prerequisite without which we cannot speak of a common energy market.
the objectives of the european green deal can only be achieved if we take into account the development and adaptation possibilities of regions and member states in the energy field, enabling them to replace their current energy sources with others that pollute much less, whatever they are.
it's technology neutrality that will give the field the freedom to make the necessary innovations, and we need to make sure that we support solutions based on reducing pollution levels, not based on the fuel used.
– madam president, honourable members, thank you very much for your support for the agreement, but also for your further comments and reflections on the current situation of europe’s energy market.
the commission shares your concerns and the responsibility in swiftly coming forward with concrete solutions that will help us accelerate our transition to climate neutrality, but also the phase—out of russian fossil fuels, while our security of supply is guaranteed and prices are kept under control.
it will allow us to focus on accelerating the offshore grids and replace natural gas by hydrogen and other renewable and low—carbon gases.
if you have heard that sicily can only supply itself with renewable energy, try to do it where you are co-government, in germany.
the energy crisis since autumn 2021 and the war in the european union's neighbourhood have clearly highlighted the weaknesses of europe's energy infrastructure.
climate goals are important, but the priority now is to maintain a secure, diversified energy supply for our countries.
we must not allow irresponsible proposals which, for various ideological reasons, would jeopardize europe's energy supply.
we have a financial crisis, energy bills, inflation, health problems.
so to those colleagues who say that greendeal has to be stopped because we need energy resources now, i say no, the opposite.
we need to accelerate our green transition to renewable energy.
first of all, the challenges we face - the war, the sustainable fight against covid-19, energy prices, but also the security of energy supply in southern europe - will only be tackled together if we are all willing to find compromises and make a contribution.
we don't have time to waste to see who has turned a blind eye in the european union and who has gained from the member countries since the annexation of crimea.
data-sharing has huge potential to inform and improve policy, from healthcare to energy efficiency.
however, what is needed is the intervention of the authorities, public support from funds that do not require the efforts of european citizens, citizens who have not yet recovered from the economic crisis and who have also been affected by the energy crisis.
the challenge is twofold: to create a sustainable single market and to increase the purchasing power of europeans.
i welcome the commission's proposal with confidence and hope that it will lead to less waste and more consumer satisfaction and that we will indeed be able to use our phones for a little longer than two years.
ensuring the right to repair means products used for longer, but also developing a complementary economic sector, that of repair services, means innovation, independence for many micro-enterprises and can make a major contribution to reducing waste.
madam president, this week, the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) highlighted that we need to reduce emissions now across all sectors.
consumers, of course, want to be empowered to make decisions based on the environmental and the overall cost of a product.
and there is a demand from consumers, we all know of the polling, such reports like this we have from numerous results; they want more information when purchasing – information on the durability, the ability to repair and the environmental impact of the production, use and disposal of the product.
– madam president, honourable members, i would like to thank you for this debate, which is very encouraging for the commission because i am pleased that we are so aligned on the aim for a more sustainable consumption.
so it’s high time we do more for more sustainable consumption, which is more environmentally friendly.
only such an approach can reconcile all related aspects and interests with the overall aim of more sustainable consumption and effective consumer rights, as well as the interests of the manufacturing industry and the retail and repair business.
it’s even older than me, and it’s very sustainable.
your resolution is a most valuable input and support for our common political aim to achieve more sustainable consumption.
on befhalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (itre).
– madam president, as coordinator of the european parliament’s negotiating team on the gas storage proposal, and on behalf of all colleagues from the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), i would like to request to refer this file back to the itre committee for negotiations.
but right now, with the aggression and the crisis that is caused by russia, with the energy prices going up, we might have second pandemics.
i want to bring up a subject that should concern us more, because the food crisis that is coming is being generated in part by the rising cost of energy.
and for us, the challenge is to cultivate our own self-sufficiency, of course, the transition to a green economy, the sustainability, the resilience of our system.
to reorient our economy, our infrastructure and build our own energy union and the self-sufficiency and resilience of our system.
madam president, madam commissioner, it was necessary for putin to demonstrate to us that gazprom is more efficient than the red army in order to discuss the need for energy autonomy in europe.
one of the most vulnerable segments right now, because alongside this war-generated crisis, we have the energy crisis, is tourism.
our quality of life is indisputably dependent on environmental protection and a consumer-centred agriculture.
increasing agricultural productivity in europe, more direct subsidies to farmers, vat reductions on essential foodstuffs and ambitious measures to encourage sustainable production are essential.
this is something that we can deal with, but these assumptions are based on the condition that there is no disruption of energy supply to europe.
secondly, i guess it’s economically rational to react with domestic, social and economic policy, especially on high energy prices.
but at the same time, instead of building a permanent support mechanism, we should speed up the introduction of renewables and energy efficiency.
the bulk of the price deviation is food and energy, unlike in the united states, for example.
it is important for them to enjoy a fair, safe environment and procedures in the host countries.
second—round effects of the war will entail higher energy costs, fiscal impacts, cyberattacks and disruption of supply chains as we head towards an 8% to 22% increase in food prices alone over the next two years.
i know that the problem is that not all member states want to accept energy sanctions for their own selfish reasons.
it is clear that the cessation of energy imports will hit us, but so will this war and much harder.
the socioeconomic impacts of the invasion of ukraine are becoming increasingly profound and cross-cutting, affecting not only the european union but the whole world, affecting the most vulnerable populations, territories, economies and societies and affecting the global system, its structures and its sustainability chains.
where there is a need to resist and support people in concrete ways in the face of the effects of inflation, rising energy and commodity prices, the reception of refugees or defence against manipulated information, such support must combine resistance and transformation.
only one european joint undertaking has not changed its name: the iter and thermonuclear energy joint undertaking.
our control system ensured the protection of the union budget also in the challenging environment brought about by the pandemic.further on, we have designed, together with the member states, a robust control system for the disbursements under next generation eu, and in particular the recovery and resilience facility.
more is under development, for example methodologies to better evaluate the contribution of the various eu spending programmes to enhancing both gender equality and biodiversity.
on biodiversity, we will monitor compliance with our spending commitments in this area for the 2024, 2026 and 2027 budgets.
we also have begun working on a pilot basis on methodologies to gauge the overall impact of our spending on climate and digital transition.
citizens expect markets to respect their privacy, protect their data, fight climate change and ensure sustainability.
competition law should now be inspired by it and recognise data protection and climate protection as competition problems.
new needs were appearing, and of course we will do the same when we follow the use of the temporary crisis framework that we have put in place to answer the war that we have in europe and the energy crisis that has come with it.
europe and citizens still rely on this house to set the rules of the game when it comes to social, when it comes to environment, when it comes to how we deal with things, and within that democratically legitimate framework, then to go compete in a single market that we will do our best to preserve every day.
the second point raised by andrea caroppo and marc angel is the question of energy prices.
we have spoken very clearly about this with commissioner breton in the committee on the internal market and have called for an integrated internal energy market.
it is not yet in the report, but i believe that this would be a decisive step towards harmonising energy prices in europe in the long term and towards the resilience that mrs pereira mentioned.
it will take some pressure, but an integrated internal energy market would greatly benefit europe and its citizens.
the eu remains fully committed to facilitating a comprehensive, peaceful and sustainable settlement of the transnistrian conflict.
this will support smes and the economy, important reforms in the energy sector, including energy efficiency, as well as justice reforms and capacity building.
under the latter, we expect to mobilise around eur 3.4 billion of public and private investments for the five flagships focusing on smes, trade facilitation, energy efficiency, connectivity and human capital development.
and yes, the almost total energy dependence on russia puts a huge pressure not only on the economy of the republic of moldova, but also on the security and political stability of the country, and we cannot leave it out of the energy sustainability solutions that we are thinking about and will be implementing at the european level.
russia has an abiding interest in destabilising moldova and the kremlin has now chosen the means of external interference in moldova through propaganda, military presence, energy blackmail and direct interference in political processes.
we have to help moldova to get rid of this near-total dependency on russian energy.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states.
in this regard, i call on the european commission to use the emergency funds to quickly connect the republic of moldova to the union's electricity grid and to support it by all means to cope with external pressure on energy supply.
we know how deeply the combination of the covid pandemic, the ‘weaponisation’ of energy supplies and the kremlin’s full—scale war against ukraine have affected your country.
history and our own transition experience has taught us that the sustainability of democratic achievements is closely linked to economic development.
over the past nine months, the government and the parliament have been working together to improve the business environment.
with your help, we started building up our energy security and resilience.
the dramatic increase in energy prices is the main reason for a historical surge in inflation – 27%.
the measures that we are taking to build energy security will show results only in a few years.
we were informed that the council cannot be attending this part—session in brussels, and therefore the council and commission statements on the prosecution of opposition and detention of trade union leaders in belarus, the fight against impunity for war crimes in ukraine and european solidarity and energy security in face of russia’s invasion of ukraine and recent cuts of gas supply to poland and bulgaria, are changed into commission statements.
moreover, the title of the commission statement, scheduled as the third item on thursday morning, is changed into repowereu plan – european solidarity and energy security in face of russia’s invasion of ukraine, including the recent cuts of gas supply to poland and bulgaria.
our report mentions a good number of key transformations that the country must go through: justice and anti—corruption, the banking sector, energy security and diversification, and economic convergence, administrative reform.
i want to reassure you that the commission remains fully committed to moldova and will continue to provide help and assistance for its pressing needs while continuing our long—term reforms mentioned in your report, including in the justice, energy and public administration sectors.
we remain fully committed to facilitating a comprehensive, peaceful and sustainable settlement of the transnistrian conflict.
at the same time, moldova is completely dependent on russia for energy.
the eu also must help moldova increase its energy security by creating new connections.
i didn’t do it in the first round, but i want to thank them really for how they’ve handled the numerous emergencies that moldova has put on the table in the last couple of months, from energy supply alternatives to urgent budgetary support.
so the country has delivered tangible and sustainable reform, with the adoption of a number of significant legislations in the areas of the population census and the efficiency of the judiciary.
for example, croatia may ask you to solve the big problem of plastic pollution in the adriatic sea.
in this way we have three complementary instruments: micro-credentials, a tool that must be public to recognise short periods of learning; individual learning accounts, a way to contribute to continuing training; and education for sustainability, to create citizens who are aware of the protection of the planet.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our vision for the european education area is to support recovery, to stimulate system modernisation in the context of the ecological and digital transitions, and to build inclusive and resilient education and training systems.
many of these have synergies with other eu policy frameworks and are co-created with multiple actors in the education ecosystem.
furthermore, with regard to the sustainable environment, a broad societal commitment to climate and the environment is essential for a sustainable europe and for the success of the green deal and the european climate pact.
repowereu is europe's way of taking the decisive step towards energy independence, but also the immediate response to the blackmail of putin's criminal regime, which has turned off the gas tap for two member states.
my country, for example, now has a real chance to fill the gaps in the current recovery plan and to start the investments it badly needs: in offshore, in distribution infrastructure and in green energy sources.
with its resources, romania will make a real contribution to european stability by becoming one of the main energy suppliers of the union.
energy independence will have to be achieved as soon as possible with what we have now and with new money, so that europeans' fears disappear, energy poverty becomes a thing of the past and no one ever tries to blackmail europe again.
that's why we need energy autonomy, and i think it's time to stop the waste of money that we're making, that we're basically funding the war machine.
that's why i think we need to focus on this energy autonomy.
in line with the eu indo-pacific strategy, the strategic compass is very clear about the willingness to build sustainable and proactive partnerships to enhance our presence in this region.
the rich cultural diversity that each island brings to europe will be extinguished and biodiversity severely damaged.
it is right that in our european policies, too, when we talk about digitalisation today, we think about the connectivity of these islands, e-health, how to use digitalisation in tourism, the energy challenges - we will talk about the fit for 55 package this week - also give an opportunity for renewable resources and all this must be given special attention on the islands, as well as higher co-financing.
they are dependent on an often inadequate connection to the mainland for transport and energy, and economically mainly on seasonal unsustainable tourism.
the pilot project on the island's energy transition has proven that islands can be leaders in the process of green transition at european level.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and on the implementation of the union's policy on the environment.
the islands may be far away from many of us, but they can be a benchmark for climate change and the measures we take to combat it and at the same time for social welfare and the effectiveness of the programmes we develop.
we need to find ways to increase economic, social, cultural exchanges, and last but not least, we need to take into account the specificities of these island regions when we think about measures for energy independence, for agriculture and local consumption, for pollution reduction.
the sharp rise in inflation has a more significant impact on the prices of fuel and energy or basic foodstuffs.
the climate crisis, the covid pandemic and the consequences of the war in ukraine.
the world is struggling with a shortage of oil, natural gas and coal, the traditional sources of energy.
we will vote on decisions that must pursue three priorities at once: decarbonisation, energy security and competitiveness.
the energy transition must be fair, otherwise we will lose the trust and support of the citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are at the beginning of summer and we are seeing the price of fuel and energy rise by the day.
the energy crisis affects us all, especially since we already have so many people and households who can't pay their energy bills and won't be able to afford to heat their homes.
energy poverty is a real problem.
in the urban environment at least 5 million romanians have experienced real drama every month, because they could not afford to pay their bills.
we have a tremendous opportunity, with border carbon adjustment, to finally have a climate policy that matches our carbon footprint by taking into account imports.
our industry is going to innovate, innovate in low carbon.
potentially, we're going to re-industrialize, create jobs around fighting climate change.
but for that, we have to be up to speed in implementing carbon adjustment at the borders.
and, mr vice-president, you know it yourself, the commission knows it, the court of auditors knows it, these free allowances have been rotting our climate ambition for years and years.
they're eating away at the ability of industry to innovate, to have revenue to fund the climate transition.
we must vote as the environment committee did on the 2030 deadline for the end of free quotas.
let us rise to the challenge, let us stand with the european commission and, i hope, with the council at some point, on an ambition that is up to the climate challenge.
the transition must be more than just sustainable.
ladies and gentlemen, we are in a situation of war, of great geopolitical turmoil, an energy crisis and worryingly high inflation.
the proposal for the carbon package would have protected eu companies that produce green and therefore more expensive in five commodity sectors against foreign companies that produce in environmentally harmful ways at lower prices and thus gain an unfair competitive advantage.
carbon is a pioneering proposal, so first, we'd need a long enough trial period to see what works and what doesn't.
madam president, dear vice—president, dear colleagues, the eu effort to protect the environment and climate has already lasted for decades.
increasing climate risks, global agreements on one hand, and technological improvement of development on the other hand, requires urgently speeding up our effort.
so from the green deal, we have got to climate law as a binding commitment for us and to implement this commitment fit for 55. we went through very intense debate about all the packages and now it’s time to vote.
let me mention a large group of people that we haven't talked about today, who are absolutely critical to achieving the climate goals: these are the workers who make sure that carbon-free products are made, that industries become carbon-free.
in the committee on the environment, our liberal and epp colleagues have unfortunately rejected the strengthening of the rights of workers in the ets system.
with the social climate fund, which the european commission has thankfully proposed, we are now making sure that we leave no one behind.
let's vote tomorrow for an ambitious climate law package.
scientists are screaming desperately at us, because we have the highest carbon dioxide level in the last four million years.
yes, putting a price on carbon is no easy task, but europe has two decades of experience with it.
commissioner, in theory we are ambitious, but the reality is that in recent years we have spent only 13% of the eu budget on climate change.
let's be truly climate leaders.
madam president, this week will vote on key legislation to reduce emissions and to build a just transition.
but let’s be frank, with us and with the citizens: all in all, this package will not allow us to reach our climate targets committed under the paris agreement.
the social climate fund is a glimmer of hope in this package.
in the light of war-driven energy prices, it is more important than ever to share the cost and to make this transition fair.
i am therefore pleased that, for the first time, we propose clear eu wide definitions of energy and mobility poverty.
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, in the current context of alarmingly high energy prices and inflation, the social climate fund is more important than ever.
the energy transition will only succeed if all europeans can make the transition, not just the lucky few who can afford it.
that's why we need a social climate fund, which will be one of the tools to ensure that everyone is able to make the energy transition and stop depending on russian gas and oil.
in addition, it is essential to take into account the different starting points and the wide-ranging reforms that member states need to carry out in order to contribute to the european union's climate objective.
for romania, my country, it is very important to support the financing of natural gas projects together with nuclear energy, as they are essential for the replacement of coal.
ambitious measures at european level must be fair, sustainable and socially acceptable and not deepen economic disparities between member states.
we have millions of europeans who cannot make it from one month to another due to increase of energy, food and fuel price.
one of the main causes of this crisis is von der leyen’s social—engineering, utopian, unrealistic and unfactual—based plan to combat the so-called carbon emissions.
and i quote: ‘emissions must have a price that changes our behaviour’, ursula said in this plenary in 2019. we see now that her objective from the beginning was not to combat carbon emissions, but to change our behaviour through higher taxes and higher prices.
mr president, mr vice-president timmermans, reducing carbon emissions has become an obligation for us and i think that if you do not understand what the planet is exposed to, you are not advocating the objectives that the commission has set itself and you do not understand them.
i voted against the report which provided for the phasing out of free allowances for sectors covered by the future carbon border adjustment mechanism.
i welcome the rejection of it in the plenary vote and the referral back to the enabled committee on the environment for a thorough analysis based on impact studies and realistic forecasts.
in the form proposed, european industry would have been doomed to practically disappear, as the environmental objectives did not take into account the economic and social impact of the measures planned in a completely unrealistic timetable.
in this context, i welcome the initiative of the rapporteur on the carbon border adjustment mechanism (cbam) to withdraw his own report from a vote which would also have been a losing one, following the outcome of the ets vote.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, many people are concerned about the climate, and so am i. i'm seriously worried about that, too.
i support the paris agreement, and i also voted for the green deal to be climate neutral by 2050. we must also reduce our dependence on energy imports as the european union.
what the war in ukraine is showing now is that we cannot provide energy ourselves and that we are dependent on countries like russia.
so we need to invest in renewable and sustainable energy such as wind and solar and hydro, but also, for example, biogas from agricultural manure, and nuclear energy.
we need to encourage innovation to ensure that companies produce more sustainably with less carbon emissions.
companies are still faced with importing products that are not as clean, that are not as sustainable, but that are sold cheaply here in our market.
and that's why i'm a big supporter of a new system, the carbon border adjustment mechanism, to close that gap.
climate action costs money.
i want to see innovation that gives people the ability to drive and do something about the climate at the same time.
this proposal will ensure that the 20% of european co2 emissions caused by road transport can be greatly reduced.
the co2 emissions from the transport sector are still growing.
if we want to make the transport sector climate neutral by 2050, we need to act now.
and because the average life of a car is 15 years, we have to do that in 2035. so we're not just doing this to do something about climate change, but when we invest in clean and zero-emission cars, it's also good for the air quality in cities, but also in rural areas.
this is a very important tool to ensure that we are less dependent on fossil fuels and energy imports.
the european parliament has decided by a large majority that we want to combat climate change.
tomorrow is a super important day, and i want to call on you to take that responsibility tomorrow and also to stand up for the promise to do something about climate change.
this week's theme is the triad of meeting our climate goals, the living conditions of future generations and the competitiveness of our economy.
by 2050, we want to be climate neutral, which means reducing co2 and removing co2 from the atmosphere.
the use of sustainable raw materials in products extends the storage time.
i want to promote this positive climate effect, empower our agriculture and forestry to do more to protect the climate and fight climate change.
what i don't want is to create a climate policy that looks good on paper but will only shift emissions.
everyone and everyone talks about carbon leakage, but it's also about wood and food leakage.
we want to replace fossil products with sustainable ones, so we want to promote a bio-based economy.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
– mr president, it is good that europe is ambitious in climate policy.
carbon leakage must be avoided to preserve european competitiveness.
environmental, economic and social sustainability must all be taken into account.
if implemented correctly, the fit for 55 package can both reduce emissions and also generate growth.
we need technology-neutral legislation which encourages investments in all kinds of viable clean energy solutions, such as nuclear and bioenergy.
this is the most efficient way to reduce emissions.
carbon sinks play an important but limited role in the process.
at the same time, we must enable sustainable use of forests and recognise also the possibilities of bio-based solutions in replacing fossil based materials.
mr president, madam representative of the council, mr first vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the itre committee, i would like to reiterate the position it has largely supported on the issue of car emissions.
firstly, from an environmental point of view, measuring exhaust emissions is not relevant.
it does not allow for an overall reduction in emissions.
instead, it is the balance of emissions over the life cycle that must be taken into account.
maintaining the minimum threshold of 90% ensures a better balance between our environmental, social and economic imperatives.
commissioner timmermans, the increase in energy prices started long before the war in ukraine.
they don't hear that nuclear energy is safe, nor do they notice the geopolitics that clearly show that our competitors are not giving up their fossil fuels.
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, scientists give us three years, three years to avoid rising temperatures, three years to avoid rising costs, but above all air pollution.
either we let the earth burn, or we're up to the climate challenge.
this is an exceptional challenge, which is in line with the climate challenge, the social challenge to develop the sectors.
tomorrow, be proud to vote for climate and jobs.
mr president, madam secretary of state, dear chrysoula, mr executive vice-president timmermans, dear colleagues, in the effort to slow down or even stop climate change we all have to contribute, because this change affects us all.
some member states have already taken a number of measures to reduce pollution, while others still have to recover in economic and social development, in the construction of infrastructure of various types.
we need to strike a balance between environmental measures and economic and social development in order to have the support and involvement of the population, economic operators and local authorities.
environmental measures must be able to be seen and approached as a progress that will help communities, and not as a burden, as an obstacle to the well-being of europeans.
farmers and forest owners must become our true partners in the transition to climate neutrality and for this reason it is absolutely necessary to establish new business models and new sources of income for farmers and forest owners interested in carbon cultivation.
basically, carbon farming will financially reward practices that either reduce greenhouse gas emissions or capture those gases in agricultural soils and forests.
in this context, in my amendments to the proposal for the revision of the lulucf regulation, i asked the commission to present a legal framework that allows for the combination of public funding, such as the common agricultural policy, with private funding from companies that want to reduce their carbon footprint, to ultimately ensure an attractive source of income for farmers and forest owners interested in growing carbon.
carbon cultivation generates positive effects on climate and the environment along with numerous related benefits for farmers.
specifically, a buildup of carbon in soil in organic form makes it more fertile and resilient, requiring less fertilizer, water and pesticides, and ultimately producing a richer, healthier crop.
that said, two basic considerations on food security and energy.
similarly, on the environment and energy issues we must start from the mistakes that have been made in the past, because if we have a dependency today, obviously there have been mistakes that need to be corrected today, and a series of choices that this parliament and the commission are proposing in parallel, i think of fit for 55, risk appearing to be in contradiction with the effort and the objective that we must put in place.
the solution lies in bold and rapid investments in the energy transition.
but if we leave them out in the rain, mrs von der leyen, we will not create acceptance for the energy transition.
and so to stop the price explosion in the energy sector, we need an energy price cap now.
the republic of moldova is in an energy blackmail zone and needs to be extracted from the pressure to abandon its euro-atlantic orientation.
our industry must look for alternatives to russian energy supplies.
the eu remains committed alongside the government and its partners to building sustainable peace, deepening democracy and ensuring protection of the fundamental human rights of all its people, including the right of worship and freedom of religion or belief.
after all, there is a war in our neighbourhood, a severe recession is looming, energy prices are going through the roof… why start a long and complicated political and legal procedure now instead of seeking fast and effective answers to the most pressing questions?
the past decade has shown us that a stronger, faster and more united europe is needed to answer challenges during economic crises, health crises, in areas like border protection, defence, climate change and energy security.
we can certainly have a successful convention if we allow ourselves sufficient time to seek pragmatic consensus – if we avoid ideologically driven, dead-end debates and do not waste our energy discussing issues that are completely irrelevant for the majority of citizens, such as transnational lists, and if we do not pursue the nuclear option of forcing the will of the majority on all, at any cost, by abolishing the unanimity rule.
protecting our environment, wildlife, and the associated consequences of demographic pressure is one of the greatest challenges of our time, and it all comes down to forests.
in the spirit of sustainability, we must work to make our forests healthier, while maintaining the forest as a full-fledged industry and providing livelihoods for the communities that live there, as it has done for centuries.
in the european internal market, timber and other sectors based on it should also be subject to appropriate rules that respect biodiversity and guarantee that timber coming into the eu is derived from legal sources.
the food crisis, aggravated by the drought in southern europe, inflation and high energy prices are seriously damaging our families and businesses.
after years of fatigue, let’s fuel new energy into the enlargement process.
mr president, commissioner gentiloni, in a recent white paper, the un explicitly emphasised the crucial role of companies in accomplishing development goals, wealth distribution and sustainable economic growth.
multinational enterprises can contribute to the sdgs by conducting responsible research and innovation with the maturity of innovation ecosystem.
all in all, there is a need for a decentralised approach to sustainable development.
in that direction, the eu could also encourage interactions across different power levels and smes could actively participate in local processes of sustainable development implementations.
and here i think the european union has a special role to play both internally and at global level, because of our leadership on the climate transition and because of our ambition on our other sdgs, i think we can give a strong contribution to restart the progress which was halted by this double crisis.
that’s why i think it is so timely that we have this conversation today, that we have a conversation that’s based on the reality that, unfortunately, this agenda has really fallen off dramatically, and it’s really time that we bring it back onto the agenda, because fundamentally we cannot achieve our paris climate targets without the sdgs.
the covid pandemic has significantly impacted the achievement of the sustainable development goals, especially in developing countries.
we need to implement a responsible and forward-looking policy that is decisive, not just for our economy and our environment, but also for our security, putting equality and resilience at the centre.
i would like my colleagues on the left, instead of wasting their energy on political strife, to strengthen solidarity and unity in times of war.
since the adoption of the sustainable development goals at the new york summit in 2015, with the ambition to implement them by 2030, the european union has shown itself to be a global leader in sustainable societal transformation, as reflected in the european green deal and all subsequently proposed and adopted policies, plans and directives.
but recently, because of the energy crisis caused by the russian aggression against ukraine, we are witnessing worrying reversible processes, even in european countries that have been at the forefront of sustainable energy transition.
i believe we can and must do better and that we really need to turn this great crisis into an opportunity for a faster and better sustainable transition and a more effective implementation of the sustainable development goals, particularly the 7th, 9th, 11th, 12th, 13th and 15th.
we will demonstrate that europe's commitment to sustainable transition in these times of crisis can be a positive example at the global level of implementation of the un sustainable development goals.
the six pillars have been translated, for example, into an ecological target of 37%, which we will follow very closely to make it real, something that at the moment seems to be in doubt, and into a digital target of 20%, which has been far exceeded with the plans presented and we are almost at 30%, thanks to which smes, public services or the health sector are benefiting.
the impact of war is translating into millions of refugees we have to take in, into very high inflation rates, into skyrocketing energy prices.
and this is why if member states intend to make investments in improving energy efficiency, reducing dependency on russia, investing in renewables, in new sources of energy, in energy infrastructure in the member state, in a way in which this helps the whole european union, i believe we should facilitate this.
we would like to see more cross-border projects, particularly in the area of energy, because this will help us to bring the energy from where we have it to where we need it.
commissioner, we will also work with the commission and with the governments of member states to make sure that the loans which were not yet accessed by some member states will be accessed and preferably in areas which are linked to reducing the energy dependence.
the current situation in ukraine is having a heavy impact on energy prices and the need to strengthen this energy security.
all these elements can be achieved through repowereu, a necessary instrument, which member states will be able to add in their planned measures to achieve energy sovereignty and independence.
but the recovery mechanism was created at a time when the brutal russian invasion of ukraine, which created new socioeconomic consequences that certainly, to be able to deal with at this time when societies are really suffering through the energy crisis, the precision and inflation, probably needs a new social recovery fund.
in today's fast-changing environment, with the many challenges associated with the impact of the war in ukraine, as well as other socio-economic impacts such as price increases and inflation, it is necessary that member states have sufficient flexibility and the possibility to submit amendments reflecting their needs.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, the crisis we are experiencing and the volatility of the current economic environment mean that the recovery and resilience plans approved last year are no longer fully responsive to our needs today.
whether it is agriculture or health, education or energy, pensions or social benefits, the list of priorities has changed profoundly in many european countries.
we as a european parliament want to make sure that the money which was not yet accessed by member states from their loan component from the recovery and resilience facility will be accessed, will be made good use of, particularly in the area of energy efficiency.
the project, which is lagging behind, is a scandal from the financial and environmental point of view, since it would have already damaged the area around the tara river, which is recognised by unesco.
we must make our policies, and especially trade policy, part of the common objective of achieving the un sustainable development goals by 2030. and the overcoming of poverty, the prosperity of the african continent is a self-interest of the european union.
we are therefore called upon to make efforts to jointly build value chains within africa, including modern and environmentally friendly technologies, in support of the african union's vision of a sustainable industrialisation of the continent.
we respect the ambitions of the project, which secretary-general wamkele mene assured us were aimed at sustainability and the creation of well-paid jobs, including the introduction of free movement of people in africa, and thus go far beyond a normal trade agreement.
at a time of mounting insecurity and threats, wars, terrorism, uncontrolled migration and environmental degradation, trade policy can contribute to fostering stability, common values and essential human and social rights by building strategic interdependencies between the eu and african countries.
your draft report rightly insists on sustainable development.
the commission shares this priority and is promoting sustainable development through its dialogues under economic partnership agreements, the sustainable cocoa initiative and the recently—started negotiations on sustainable investment facilitation agreements.
the funding under the eu africa global gateway investment package of eur 150 billion will also help to meet sustainability objectives, while using a team europe approach.
this will allow us to reap the full benefits of our trade and investment relations while promoting international environment standards in line with the eu green deal and the universal values of human rights, including labour rights, which the eu strongly promotes globally with all its partners.
that was in 2020. the report supports trade based on agricultural products which show respect for biodiversity, and fighting against overexploitation.
it also promotes resilient and sustainable agriculture, recognises the strategic importance of african rangelands and also their massive importance to carbon sequestration.
we also need climate partnerships.
many african countries are suffering from the dramatic effects of climate change, which is largely caused by the industrialized countries of the north.
it is therefore our duty to support african countries in combating and adapting to climate change.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the ukrainian crisis has finally made the european union realize how important its relationship with africa is, a continent which is home to 24% of the world's arable land, huge reserves of natural resources and energy, and a population which will soon exceed two billion, a quarter of the world's population.
what you are proposing to them are partnership agreements tied to the achievement of goals of ecological and digital transition or gender equality, which have little to do with the real urgencies of an underdeveloped and hungry continent, demonstrating once again how the strategy of the european union is clouded by ideology and detached from reality.
the european union and the african union have repeatedly stated their commitment to a joint vision, a vision based on a strategy that is a partnership for sustainable and inclusive development.
the comprehensive recommendations in this report in this context therefore contribute to mitigating the negative impacts that the ongoing war in ukraine is already having on sustainable development, wealth creation and the well-being of the people.
taking into account the new global challenges, this commission is adapting its trade strategy with africa, including the need to promote more sustainable trade and investment, both between our continents and within africa.
new partnerships on energy supply, access to and sustainable management of critical raw materials, and food security for africa should be prioritised in this context.
but even so, trade and sustainable investment facilitation agreements remain the main platforms of our engagement with african partners.
climate change, you might add, is the destruction of the environment.
finally, but necessarily certainly now, by preventing climate change and preserving biodiversity and making the most intensive joint efforts to get this started.
climate partnerships, that is, eu investment activities - you mentioned the global gateway again - require the equal involvement of decision-makers on the african continent, at all levels, at national level, at the level of the african union, but also at local, regional and stakeholder level.
we are in favour of a thorough reform of the energy charter treaty so that it actually complies with the principles of sustainable development, the european green deal, the defence of human rights and makes it possible to put an end to the transition from fossil fuels.
foreign direct investment also plays a key role in achieving our open strategic autonomy and our access to essential inputs such as energy.
eu investors, more than any other foreign investors, decisively contribute to the sustainable development of the host countries, notably in the eu neighbourhood and africa.
the draft resolution welcomes the eu’s reformed approach on investment protection, but also calls for further adjustments to address new challenges, in particular climate change.
notably, our investment agreements include commitments on sustainable development taken by both parties, for instance on matters such as responsible business conduct and the respect of environmental, human rights and labour standards.
they are also explicit about the right of governments to pursue legitimate public policy objectives, including the fight against climate change.
eu investors face difficulties when investing abroad, and investment is necessary to reach the sustainable development goals, as well as for the eu’s open strategic autonomy.
some 40% of europeans believe that the war has affected their living standards and want the european union to intervene to keep energy and food prices at acceptable levels.
russia’s war is a blatant disregard of international law and has global repercussions on food security, energy and the economy.
romania needs to take rational steps to ensure its energy independence for the coming winter.
before we can give up on energy sources that work, we need to have a truly viable alternative.
russia's invasion of ukraine and the interruption of gas supplies to poland and bulgaria remind us of the need to diversify the eu's energy supply from a single supplier.
eu countries need to promote measures to enhance energy efficiency.
when filling their storage facilities, member states should aim at diversifying their gas suppliers with a view to reducing their dependence where this may jeopardise the security of energy supply or the essential security interests of the union or the member states.
the operation of new lng terminals in cyprus and greece, as well as the eastmed pipeline, will make a significant contribution to achieving this objective and to the eu's overall energy independence from russian energy sources.
it is important that the european commission, which is steeped in green ideology, has finally recognised the role of natural gas storage in protecting against energy price shocks.
sadly, this insight has had to be brought about by the worst energy crisis in decades.
on the one hand, it was possible to prevent the brussels plan, which would have made the countries with large storage facilities, such as hungary, pay the price of european energy security.
hungary and europe's secure energy supply is a red line for us in all proposals.
we are at a critical moment when we must be able to guarantee europe's energy security for all citizens.
madam president, i believe that the recovery and resilience mechanism is a very useful tool and has been received positively in all member states, because after the public health crisis, we are now facing other crises, such as the humanitarian crisis, the security crisis, the crisis of rising energy prices and the effects this has on the economy.
madam president, commissioner, the commission's proposal on the sustainable use of plant protection products is not only not based on an impact study, but it is also putting farmers in romania and other countries who already use chemicals far below the european average on the back foot.
sustainable production could remain a dream, food a luxury, and thousands of farmers at risk of bankruptcy.
a realistic proposal should start from the simple premise of not destroying ourselves and from a question: do we really want to fill the gaps left by our farmers with imports of questionable standards and with a greater impact on the environment?
madam vice-president, madam commissioner, in this mandate we have faced many challenges, and the european union has had to rethink its way of acting to deal with the challenges, from the european green deal to brexit, to the covid-19 pandemic, the war in ukraine and the energy crisis or the price rises.
the demographic mega—trend of ageing in the european union highlights the challenge of ensuring access to high—quality, affordable, long—term care while securing its adequate and sustainable financing.
it takes a comprehensive approach to care, from childcare into long—term care, and covers the challenges of availability, accessibility, affordability and quality, while also stressing the need to ensure fiscal sustainability.
through an alternative text, we propose to give priority to supporting the family, which is the irreplaceable natural environment where life and affections take place; to give options for choosing solutions adapted to each moment and each situation; to propose creative ideas, to offer economic resources and to favour tax advantages that allow the dedication of a family member or professional services that are of quality and qualified on the basis of a specialty, whether domestic, educational or therapeutic; to recognize the incalculable and indispensable value of those who offer their dedication.
this ensures the most appropriate environment for the cared for, for which the state should provide all conditions and assistance.
climate, energy, purchasing power.
the choices made in each of these three policy areas clearly have an impact on the other two measures taken to combat climate change.
they have an effect on energy supplies and will affect, and probably even affect, the purchasing power of the citizens.
but equally, securing energy supply by, for example, turning to gas and coal power plants has an impact on climate objectives.
we are strong supporters of a sustainable energy transition, but one which also places prosperity and competitiveness at its centre.
if we want to keep electricity prices under control in the long term, with a stable energy supply and to meet climate objectives, europe has no choice but to opt for nuclear energy.
this week parliament has the keys to finally recognising nuclear energy as a sustainable source of energy.
the rise in energy and commodity prices has widened the scope of inflationary pressures.
the war and geopolitical tensions that are going on are raising questions about our energy dependence, about the speculation in the market that we have to combat and about the ceiling on gas and oil.
i would like to refer to the social climate fund, which we recently launched in this house.
i am beginning to wonder why the german chancellor in particular - who is doing nothing in his own country to combat this crisis, who has launched a relief package that does not deserve the name, which does not include pensioners and students - why is this chancellor in particular campaigning for the climate and social fund, which has already been reduced in comparison with the commission's proposal, to be reduced again?
now, not later, we need to create opportunities for them in the entrepreneurial environment.
she cannot – in a market where demand for energy is increasing – get cheaper energy by closing down sources of energy.
nevertheless, the european parliament must stop the insane, and support the creation of energy from nuclear and gas that, along with renewable energy, can provide sustainable and cheaper energy, which will make the cost of living affordable for all europeans.
i think the last speaker referred to a letter from the ukrainian minister of energy, and i want to thank the minister for the statement he made and i will quote the letter where he says, ‘i strongly believe that the inclusion of gas and nuclear in the taxonomy is an important element of the energy security in europe, especially with a view to replacing russian gas.’ and i don’t think we should second-guess this letter.
i hope we have enough respect for each other in this chamber to say that that is not the case, that this is, in fact, a realistic proposal to deal with great urgency, the matter of our transition towards a more sustainable future.
we need to invest immediately more money in the renewable energy sector, but we also need to be realistic and accept that we will need to invest in gas and nuclear in transition.
families at home are divided on these energy sources.
if this delegated act is rejected – and i stand in front of this house and will accept fully the vote of this house as a former member and will watch it very carefully – it means that we have nothing to say on these energy sources.
i urge all of you who took a pragmatic and realistic approach to the climate delegated act, which is now law, which i thank you for, to take the same pragmatic and realistic approach to this issue, the complementary delegated act, and reject this motion of rejection.
in june, however, the european parliament's committee on economic and environmental affairs voted against the commission's proposal.
in the financial world, taxonomy means the classification of economic activities according to whether investments are sustainable or not.
the taxonomy of sustainable finance is voluntary for market participants.
the commission has proposed to classify investments in natural gas as sustainable as a transitional measure.
in the case of nuclear power, nobody says that nuclear power plants emit carbon dioxide.
but at the same time, everybody knows that nuclear fuel is not renewable fuel either.
the question is whether or not to consider it sustainable.
in the current energy crisis, i consider it necessary to classify investments in nuclear energy and natural gas as a transition fuel as sustainable.
the choice to include gas and nuclear in the list of environmentally sustainable activities of the green taxonomy risks undermining the entire credibility of the whole regulatory framework aimed at the green economy.
gas is a fossil fuel that emits co2, a climate-changing energy source that makes us dependent on russia and other third countries.
nuclear power stations pose very serious problems of safety and management of radioactive waste.
while we are aware of the energy supply problems facing europe and the world, we believe that those who want to help combat climate change and protect the environment and health must make bold, non-retardable choices, focusing on renewable sources and not diverting large investments from clean energy.
in the midst of the energy war, some want europe to shoot itself in the foot.
the objection put on the agenda of this plenary session is determined either by the inadequacy of the new geopolitical reality or by the individualism of states lacking natural resources, so as not to suspect other implications... the vote in the european parliament, however, leaves a clear path for the european commission's delegated act, which allows investments in natural gas and nuclear energy to be funded from eu funds as transition activities to replace coal and oil.
after all, coal mines are being reopened in the eu to cope with the energy crisis, and some are repulsed by the less polluting gas and nuclear power!
on the economic front, the eu and kosovo are facing common challenges: increase of the prices of energy and other commodities, inflation and concerns about the future.
the energy sector remains a cause for concern, especially after the difficult winter kosovo has been through.
kosovo should finalise its energy strategy for the next ten years and begin its transition towards decarbonisation and green energy sources as soon as possible.
kosovo needs to redouble its efforts to take full advantage of the unique opportunities offered under the economic and investment plan and ipa iii, not least in the energy sector.
when it comes to the belgrade—pristina dialogue, the adoption on 21 june of a roadmap for the implementation of past energy agreements is a major step forward.
the rapporteur, mr van den broek, has already said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
and fifth, we call for a result-oriented multilateralism, for the challenges that we all know today that require cooperation, especially: climate change, which by its very nature forces and pushes us to cooperate - and not to compete - economic governance, which is now widely condemned; the need to cooperate in the field of taxation or also gender equality; and, of course, global health, which has been one of the lessons, without a doubt, of this pandemic.
at the start of the year, the un secretary-general spoke urgently about what he called a ‘five-alarm global fire’ covering covid, inequality, climate emergency, abuse of technology and violent conflict.
but even as we do so, we cannot lose sight of overarching priorities such as agenda 2030 and the sustainable development goals.
from climate change to war on famine, we need to act our values stronger and we need to work closer with those who think like us.
especially for those who for more than two years have worked only from home and have known colleagues only in the virtual environment and have lost the social contact so necessary for a healthy person.
secondly, helping vulnerable, import—dependent countries build sustainable and resilient food systems.
and third, easing tensions on global agricultural markets and promoting an open, transparent and predictable trade environment.
now we are going to demonstrate with those same elements that we are able to win against putin, to win against the consequences of his cruel war, the energy crisis and the food crisis that is beginning to be generated.
although affected by the energy crisis, the explosion of food prices and the prolonged drought, which made the danube, an important transport route, unviable, my country is doing everything in its power to help its neighbours.
you cannot on one side close down supplies of energy and on the other side increase the demand and expect that the price of energy is going to go down.
i am pleased that today this parliament rejected the proposal to stop the nuclear and gas energy and i hope that in the future we will support such proposals, because we clearly need cheap energy and sustainable energy, and nuclear energy and gas energy are the solution to this problem.
the tragic event in marmolada is just the latest example of the disastrous risks linked to warmer temperatures and thus to climate change.
climate adaptation, disaster risk reduction and disaster preparedness are paramount.
we need a grand invasion plan that has two purposes: to provide water for citizens and agricultural activities and to create a large-scale clean and renewable energy project through the pumping system and floating solar panels.
satellites, drones and other military-derived technologies eliminate waste and determine the water requirements of different types of land cultivation.
we have to stop pumping carbon into the atmosphere now.
but these are not unexpected natural disasters, but direct and severe consequences of man-made climate change.
it is therefore essential to direct our efforts and resources towards eco-sustainable actions, emission reductions and agricultural practices that waste less water and, more generally, towards actions to protect the land in line with the new climatic conditions.
we need to invest in a system of water storage and storage, and try to use these systems also to produce hydroelectric power or renewable energy.
even the right wing is forced to admit, after years of denial, that climate change is right in front of us today, it's undeniable.
after this very heavy heat wave, we see the risk of a drought, the worst in decades, which dries up rivers and water reserves with very serious damage to the environment, agriculture and citizens, we see it in italy and we see it in europe.
the climate crisis is not coming, the climate crisis is here.
much worse are the effects of the climate crisis in north africa, where people are actually starving and don't know what they're going to eat tomorrow.
we need to limit co2 emissions.
and we also have to realize that it's not just agriculture that's affected, but also the disappearance of forests in europe, which is also contributing to climate change.
cycling undoubtedly presents a huge potential for climate change mitigation, offering a cheap and accessible alternative to motorised trips, in particular in cities.
the aim of the report is to boost the supply and demand for sustainable aviation fuels in the eu, in line with the goal of reducing aviation’s environmental footprint, which is huge, to achieve the eu's climate targets.
it is imperative that european planes use the greenest and most sustainable fuels to help the eu become climate neutral by 2050. and it is important that we invest much more in the development and deployment of sustainable fuels made in , in order to decrease costs.
the sustainable aviation fuels report strikes a balance between what we want and what we can do in the short term, but also in the medium and long term.
that is why i supported this report and i congratulate my colleague from vilnius, søren gade, on a balanced report which supports both the environment and aviation.
we continue to face the consequences of climate change.
(the order of business was thus established)
the next item is the debate on the report by ulrike müller, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on a new eu forest strategy for 2030 – sustainable forest management in europe (2022/2016(ini)) (a9-0225/2022).
the report on the forestry strategy which we are discussing today focuses on the close to nature and sustainable management of our forests.
it is designed to enable our forests to fulfil their multiple roles: climate resilience, carbon sinks, habitat for plants and animals, provision of wood for work and fuel, and work and recreation for people.
on the one hand, they are suffering from the effects of climate change: drought, extreme weather.
they are climate protectors by capturing and storing co2, but also by providing sustainable materials.
they provide a habitat for biodiversity.
this requires balanced, sustainable management.
secondly, sustainable forestry is the most typical and promising approach to forest management to achieve the various objectives in a balanced way.
it is important that sustainable forestry is not misunderstood as a fixed, outdated system.
they know their forests like no one else, and they have a natural self-interest in sustainable healthy forests through decades of extensive management periods.
the strategy must create policy coherence in the spirit of these four guiding principles, particularly in climate and species protection, but also in the spirit of the bio-based circular economy and green growth.
multifunctionality, sustainable management, ownership as a pillar and locality.
the new eu forest strategy adopted in july 2021 is the flagship initiative of the european green deal that provides the framework for the forests to deliver on their share to our environmental and climate ambition and to secure livelihoods in rural areas and support a sustainable forest-based bioeconomy.
at the core of the strategy is the recognition of the multifunctionality of the forests and the balance between their economic, social and environmental functions.
other equally important elements of the strategy are ensuring that forest ecosystems are restored, resilient and adequately protected, the contribution of forests and the entire forest-based value chain for achieving a sustainable and climate-neutral economy and adequate forest monitoring and planning.
they are essential for biodiversity, climate change mitigation, water replenishment and regulation, recreation and health services.
we need to improve the quality and resilience of existing forests through restoration and adaptation to climate change.
to this end, the commission will propose a new eu framework for forest monitoring and strategic plans to develop an eu-wide forest observation framework that provides open access to detailed, accurate, regular and timely information on the condition and management of eu forests and to the many products and ecosystem services that forests provide.
in the new eu forest strategy, the commission announced its intention to enhance the governance for forest-related matters to make it more inclusive and interdisciplinary, and to reflect all objectives of the new eu forest strategy and their interlinkages with other eu policies such as climate change, biodiversity and many more.
forests are part of our landscape, our cultural and natural spaces, they are economic spaces, conservation areas, recreation areas, the core of biodiversity.
our forests are under pressure from climate change, poor management and pests that are increasing many of our forests.
if forests are to provide building materials such as cement or steel and energy, they must also be used sustainably.
only then can the forest rejuvenate and adapt to climate change.
we must use them, and then we can make a significant and decisive contribution to a sustainable circular economy.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their exemplary collaboration in finalising this report on the forest strategy, in which we have managed to strike a balance between all three functions of forests: environmental, social and economic.
we're going to need forests as a source of biodiversity and health, but also as a resource.
sustainably managed, forests can help us achieve our renewable energy goals and energy independence.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after two years of the pandemic, after the energy crisis we are all experiencing, after the shock of war at the doorstep of the european union and the wave of refugees from ukraine, european citizens are facing a new challenge: inflation, the galloping rise in prices.
it is therefore imperative that the commission's vision of solutions to the energy crisis be complemented by a financial package to prevent and combat unemployment, an extension of the sure programme so that financial aid reaches those who could lose their jobs, or a supplement to the social climate fund, which must be calibrated to the new reality.
mr president, commissioner, climate change is a fact!
climate change is evident, even if some colleagues in the european parliament are determined to deny it to the electorate.
reality shows that we need to accelerate pollution reduction measures and act at union level to ensure that we are taking steps in the right direction.
climate change can only be slowed or stopped if we take positive action, if we focus on solutions and not prohibitions.
the union's food security and environmental objectives cannot be achieved without rapid, effective support for farmers in all member states affected by climate change.
in just one year, in my country, romania, meat has gone up 20%, bread has gone up 25%, oil has gone up over 50%, and i don't even want to talk about energy, electricity and gas prices.
the truth is we have done a lot since the beginning of the invasion of the russian armed forces into ukraine in the area of energy.
firstly, in the short term, capping energy prices, including prices of gas imports from russia, is a needed measure firstly.
and, secondly, a coordinated approach on the unreasonably high profits of energy companies.
for this, we need to invest in renewable energies.
we have enough wind, enough solar, enough water in the european union and nuclear capacities for those countries who want to use them, including my own country, plus adjust the recovery and resilience facility repowereu to allow for investment into energy efficiency, energy connectivity and reducing energy dependency.
madam president, as chair of the employment and social affairs committee, i would like to underline to commissioner simpson the profound social dimension triggered by the war in ukraine and the energy crisis.
indeed, winter is coming, dear colleagues, and we need immediate action on the energy market, as you all well suggested, but also a plan to empower and shield our citizens and entrepreneurs.
this plan can exist right now under the form of repowereu, which is focused and targeted for energy independence.
this is why i am suggesting the european energy transition investment shield as a scheme for micro—investment grants, for energy efficiency and energy alternatives that can be done in forms of vouchers – and we have the experience of fead.
madam president, the people who sent us to the european parliament are asking why the commission is not able to save them from the torment of huge energy prices.
and now it can effectively address and manage the energy crisis.
firstly, a strong fund must be created which can withstand the energy crisis and support all those households which will suffer enormous consequences from the energy crisis.
secondly, the european union must immediately give a strong impetus to the development of renewable energy sources, so that it can effectively replace liquid fuels and natural gas.
thirdly, and most importantly, it must develop those areas where there is a future prospect of supplying energy to the european union.
the european union must exploit this region and invest heavily in energy if we are to be able to supply the european union with natural gas and end any energy dependence.
i have heard the calls for more energy solidarity and for progress on the joint purchasing of gas on international markets.
i also agree on the importance of increased attention to energy poverty.
i welcome the stress many of you put on the fast deployment of renewables as the only structural response to europe’s energy security and competitiveness.
i want to underline again that it is key to quickly adopt our proposal on permitting and authorisation, together with a revision of the renewable energy directive.
tomorrow, the commission will present a proposal for an extraordinary and temporary intervention to address high energy prices.
president von der leyen will also outline in her state of the union speech how this fits in our broader political strategy on energy.
the council will keep the situation on the energy markets under constant review.
to this end – and as i said earlier – the next extraordinary energy council meeting will take place on 30 september.
whilst trilogues on several climate proposals have already started, from the energy side the council stands ready to start trilogues on the renewables directive and the energy efficiency directive as soon as possible.
since mid-2021, the union has experienced an increase in energy prices.
after russia's invasion of ukraine, energy prices have reached record levels.
energy prices are the main component of inflation.
the european union is working to reduce its high energy dependence on russia and to stem the rise in energy prices.
in this respect, we socialists were the first to call for strong and coordinated measures at european level, to put forward proposals to tackle high energy prices, to secure supplies and to protect consumers, especially the most vulnerable.
europe is facing an unprecedented energy crisis.
high energy prices are also driving inflation.
this includes the reduction of revenues for energy producers that do not use gas for production, such as companies producing energy from renewable sources, and thus produce energy at a much lower cost.
their profits would be frozen at a certain level and the surplus from the sale of energy could be used to support those in the most difficult situation.
another instrument would be a solidarity levy, which would in turn be levied on fossil fuel energy suppliers.
these are good proposals, but we also need diversification of energy sources, new gas supply channels and alternative sources.
citizens expect solutions from the union to overcome the energy crisis and for this reason, since the beginning of russia's aggression in ukraine and the energy crisis, the european parliament has been cooperative, has supported the measures put forward by the commission and has allowed them to be adopted as a matter of urgency.
we will continue to do the same with the new solutions proposed by the commission, such as taxing energy companies with extraordinary profits, reducing consumption or capping prices, measures that can help to partially resolve the crisis.
i still think the best measure would be to limit energy prices.
because the price of energy affects all other products, and even if a percentage of the price of energy goes back to the consumer of energy, from the rising prices of all other products, nothing goes back.
limiting energy prices is the most effective solution to help citizens cope with inflation.
since mid-2021, the union has experienced an increase in energy prices.
after russia's invasion of ukraine, energy prices have reached record levels.
energy prices are the main component of inflation.
the european union is working to reduce its high energy dependence on russia and to stem the rise in energy prices.
in this respect, we socialists were the first to call for strong and coordinated measures at european level, to put forward proposals to tackle high energy prices, to secure supplies and to protect consumers, especially the most vulnerable.
– it is wise to support measures, effective at european but also at local level, that strive to contain the high cost of living, starting with energy.
measures must be calibrated together, at all levels of the energy spectrum through government action, private sector collaboration and coordination between member states.
the model should be that of an economic war conducted to secure and maximise energy supplies while stabilising prices.
capping of energy prices would have to happen across the board, not just for natural gas from russia.
it impacts the lives of ukrainians, the future of the people that depend on the food and energy supply from ukraine and russia, and also of the citizens in our own countries.
the long-term consequences of the war are still unpredictable, but the short-term impact we all experience – the need to help the ukraine, to care about the support to third countries and in our region, the all time high energy prices, the historical inflation levels and the fears of our people about their future.
we are living in unprecedented times and in a very complex and difficult geopolitical and economic environment.
today, budgets at national level are also struggling to cope with this perfect storm with high inflation levels and an energy crisis.
the council has proposed a cut of eur 45 million to the programme for environment and climate action, so-called ‘life’, which is dedicated to the green transition.
under heading seven, the council has rejected the proposal to use the flexibility instrument to offset the impact of high inflation and soaring energy prices on the administrative expenditure of the institutions.
the very high bills for energy and inflation are consequences of the unjust war that russia is leading in ukraine.
by reading the czech presidency’s position, i hope health and energy are important to you, just as they are important to us.
we also don’t want to choose which people we will be able to help: the ukrainian citizens, the refugees, the poor eu citizens who are the victims of the energy crisis and inflation.
at the border, refugees are dying every day, fracking, gas and nuclear power are suddenly sustainable, and you routinely delete your text messages about the billions in payments to pfizer.
but the war is also affecting our citizens and businesses: high inflation, horrendous energy prices, households with no room for manoeuvre, firms cutting back on production, insolvencies are the order of the day.
this is as true of our energy supply as it is of our food supply.
solutions like building infrastructure that better connects us, that allows us to achieve that much-needed energy independence.
and the latest: the madness of sanctions in the war between russia and ukraine, where instead of making efforts to bring about peace, money and arms are being sent and european citizens are being pushed into an emergency situation with an energy crisis, where they are being told: no more bathing, no more showering, no more heating.
in the energy sector, for example, the measures you have proposed have been requested by the socialist group for several months.
we see soaring food, energy and fertiliser prices, and we cannot afford to wait any longer to take action.
in the name of solidarity, romania understands and accepts that countries that have more energy should reduce their consumption and give to those that have less.
gerb is determined to reverse the negative effects of petkov's mismanagement and a company with a clear pro-european agenda, solidarity with ukraine, compensation for high energy prices, accelerated completion of infrastructure projects that were stopped by the petkov government.
we don't know how to deal with the energy crisis and what we need to connect to it.
fourthly, the solidarity fund should be reformed and funds should also be made available for climate adaptation and for responding to crises caused by climate change.
and fifth, we need to put climate change more at the centre of this, even more than we are doing now.
and climate change and climate change adaptation should be clearly separated, so that it is really visible what can be done in which areas.
the energy supply crisis, which is affecting all regions and particularly the border regions, must now call for a number of new proposals to be considered.
and we must consider that crossborder energy projects of european interest are probably part of the solutions we must seek for our energy sovereignty.
madam president, madam commissioner, i agree with you that cohesion policy is more necessary than ever, especially now, in times of crisis, economic transition, ecological transition, which also has a social impact.
in the face of natural disasters and the energy crisis, integration between border regions is necessary.
it has served to correct, to mitigate the differences in this union of at least two speeds with a war at our doorstep, a major energy crisis and the climate crisis that is increasingly hitting us; now, more than ever, is the time to strengthen these policies.
we are here to discuss the future of cohesion policy, direct access to finance for cities, gdp which can no longer be the only indicator, the revision of the stability and growth pact, and we should here firmly declare to the commission and the council that cohesion policy is fundamental to the energy transition of our regions and our municipalities.
the commission is now suggesting, in the wake of the energy crisis, that member states mobilise resources already insufficient for cohesion to finance repowereu, diverting funds to serve the interests of large economic groups.
union policies and actions, combined with national and regional ones, are, as has been said here so many times, key to enabling rural european citizens to meet the challenges of demographic loss, lack of access to basic services, lack of quality employment opportunities, climate pressures, reduced connectivity and limited access to innovation.
mr president, we voted today to adapt the energy efficiency directive to the ambitious targets set out in the 'fit for 55' package.
in the context of the crisis caused by the colossal increase in prices, we must ensure that energy is no longer wasted in outdated buildings that are not adapted to current requirements.
we also need to ensure that new buildings meet the highest energy efficiency standards, because only then will the eu's measures have a real impact.
we also have a duty to combat energy waste, to combat energy poverty and to fight with all our might to achieve the climate goals we have set ourselves.
mr president, the european commission, including through the pnrr packages, has proposed measures to effectively tackle the energy crisis we are all going through, so that we can be well into the winter.
what is the romanian government doing with these energy infrastructure investment opportunities?
where does the country's project for energy independence and self-sufficiency lead?
mr president, europe is at a turning point and in a green, energy, digital and social transition.
the reason is clear: the wrong response to the war, namely, the fall in energy prices due to the sanctions imposed by brussels.
finally, the ets tax on corporate carbon emissions should be suspended.
we must alleviate where we can and we must support, also with a view to reducing electricity taxes, the horrendous prices, which are also there in terms of the procurement of raw materials, in terms of energy supply.
if we're going to have a very advanced sustainability and climate change policy, we need to have a coherent industrial policy: the panels, the batteries, and everything else that's needed to make that policy work.
of course, we need to make major changes so that the way we produce doesn't add to pollution and even, where possible, soaks up greenhouse gases from the air.
in our effort to reach net zero emissions, we must have industry and all european citizens on our side.
the next item is the joint debate on:– the report by joanna kopcińska, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 851/2004 establishing a european centre for disease prevention and control (com(2020)0726 – c9-0366/2020 – 2020/0320(cod)) (a9-0253/2021), and– the report by véronique trillet-lenoir, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on serious cross-border threats to health and repealing decision no 1082/2013/eu (com(2020)0727 – c9-0367/2020 – 2020/0322(cod)).
in contrast, the growing number of violent conflicts across the world undermine the bonds that can support common efforts to address global problems such as climate change, the respect for all human rights, as well as the implementation of the un 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
madam president, the council has announced a package of measures to say it is holding back energy prices.
what is needed is to intervene in price formation, to set maximum prices for electricity, gas and fuel, to regulate the market, to regain public control of the energy sector.
madam president, we are talking about energy crisis thinking and looking for solutions to reduce our dependence on russian gas.
but it's incredible how mayors who find innovative solutions, like my colleague clotilde armand, the mayor of sector 1 bucharest, to create green energy, entrepreneurs who come up with new ways to produce renewable energy locally, get into little political disputes.
dear colleagues who are so vocal here at the european parliament, convince your colleagues at home that the good of the people comes first, that projects that solve the energy and pollution solution at the same time must be supported, no matter what political group or party they come from.
it is clear that we are all focusing on the energy crisis at this time and trying to help the european citizens.
250 million euros a year in savings for consumers, 11,000 tonnes less electrical waste for the environment.
we need uniform standards and rules for all that are sustainable because consistently focused on the recycling of necessary raw materials.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner dalli, in recent years the european union has tried to invest a lot in creating, through new legislation and good practice, an accessible ecosystem which would allow all citizens, regardless of whether they have a disability or not, to live their lives and to enjoy their interpersonal and social relationships with the greatest possible degree of freedom and independence.
transport, services, workplaces, websites, procurement, the built environment: all tailored to the needs of each individual.
let's not waste this opportunity to create inclusion and move forward in that direction.
therefore, the aim of the european union must be to identify and to overcome all gaps and inconsistencies in the current legislation and standards, and to create an accessible environment for all.
madam president, following the adoption by this parliament and the community institutions of rules establishing an ecosystem to promote accessibility and integration of people with disabilities, the adoption of the european disability strategy, which gave a mandate for the creation of this eu accessibility centre, took place.
this will reduce the capacity of the union to deliver on its commitments under the green deal for the management of ozone-depleting substances and control and reduction of fluorinated greenhouse gases to prevent climate-relevant emissions.
in the 21st century, everyone must have access to tap water, clean drinking water, adequate sanitation, waste collection services, electricity, gas, transport and digital communications.
mr president, commissioner, europe is facing a major security crisis and a major energy crisis.
putin's real allies in brussels are those who destroyed european energy; those who destroyed the coal mines; those who destroyed our independence; those who made the european union dependent on russian hydrocarbons; and those who fund the russian economy.
it is deeply regrettable and unacceptable that, for political reasons and due to internal political games in some member states, romanians are deprived, romanians, and romanian citizens, and the business environment are deprived of a right conferred by the european union treaties.
solidarity in the face of war for refugees and migrants, solidarity in the face of the energy crisis.
delaying accession to the schengen area costs companies, carriers and citizens money and is a waste of time.
plus the environmental cost of thousands of trucks sitting in traffic for tens of hours.
however, the fact that romania is outside schengen has caused major damage to the business environment, not only in romania, but in all the countries that do business in romania, including the netherlands, the country that has so far opposed my country's entry into schengen, but which, on the other hand, is among the top foreign investors in romania.
the requirement of sustainability must not be limited to terrestrial space.
stm is not just a technical matter that needs to be addressed to avoid, so that we can also in the future make a safe and sustainable use of space, stm also has a clear strategic and geopolitical dimension.
the winter preparedness package provides for member states to give priority as regards energy gas availability to relevant sectors, including fertilisers.
moreover, as part of package of emergency measures in the energy sector, the commission has proposed a temporary solidarity contribution on surplus profits generated from activities in the main energy segments.
these funds of up to eur 114 billion could mitigate the high energy prices to households and energy intensive industries, including the fertiliser sector.
the member states’ cap strategic plans are, and will be in the future, the key tools to support sustainable farming and incentivise reduced use of fertilisers.
in the draft plans, we have recorded 28 interventions in 17 member states whose main practice is nutrient management using either eco—schemes or agro—environmental climate payments.
our fertiliser industry is itself well under way in its efforts to switch to the production of low carbon ammonia and other circular nutrient sources.
we must support its efforts, as it is crucial for food security to have a viable and sustainable fertiliser industry in our member states.
on our way to a sustainable future, we will ensure that food security is maintained, including in the global context.
but of course, as you said, commissioner, it also has to do with exploding gas prices and exploding energy prices.
the effects are fatal, on the one hand, at the level of farms, where costs are rising very rapidly and where there is a combination of high costs of fertilisers combined with high costs of energy, but also on the consumer side.
for this reason, the eu must urgently come forward with an integrated approach on food security, looking at it not only from an agricultural production perspective, but also from an economic, environmental, trade, regional and international partnership perspective.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the midst of an energy crisis whose outcome is difficult to predict and in the face of a cold season which could create new and serious problems, europe must learn to save on heat, electricity and water.
this is the price it pays because for more than a year, despite repeated warnings and requests, the union has hesitated to intervene firmly to combat anomalies in the energy market.
the crisis generated by the war, the energy crisis, inflation have put huge challenges on the table of european decision-makers.
and the consequence of the energy crisis is that this food crisis is getting even deeper.
and the energy crisis is exacerbating this shortage, because the production of these fertilizers is very energy intensive.
russia’s war of aggression against ukraine and the weaponisation of energy supplies have driven energy prices to an unprecedented level and created a very difficult situation for many households and companies.
a) the energy supply.
first, we are taking all possible measures to avoid energy shortages this winter.
we see that the price increases weigh more heavily on low-income families whose energy needs account for a higher percentage of their budget; without government support, many cannot afford that.
the explosion of energy prices is also hitting smes and energy-intensive companies hard.
in order to address these challenges, energy ministers at the end of september reached an agreement on allowing to offer regulated electricity prices also to small- and medium-sized enterprises, not only households and micro-enterprises.
on the social front, the czech presidency decided to dedicate the informal meeting of employment and social ministers a few days ago, on 13 and 14 october, to a discussion on the impact of energy poverty and the ukrainian crisis.
on 7 october, a new regulation on emergency measures to reduce energy prices entered into force.
the regulation introduces measures to collect and redistribute the energy sector’s surplus revenues to households and small- and medium-sized enterprises.
we do not know what the future holds or how long the current conflict will last, but we will certainly maintain our resolve to seek collective and articulated responses to ensure a sustainable cost of living for our citizens.
families and businesses face a surge in food and energy prices there are the financial and monetary implications.
lower-income households are worst hit as they spend proportionately much more on food and energy.
businesses are also affected by rising energy costs, higher financing costs and lower consumer confidence.
first, we need to work on the root causes of inflation in the energy markets.
this requires action to secure alternative sources of supply, to reduce our energy demand and to address the current situation in electricity and gas markets.
member states have agreed energy consumption reduction targets and exceptional measures while we prepare a broader review of the functioning of the electricity markets.
honourable members, the more successful we are regarding energy, the stronger the economic and social position will be.
however, the public sector must protect those most exposed to high energy and food prices.
to achieve that, our support must be targeted, temporary and retain incentives to reduce energy consumption.
it would fuel inflation, bring even higher energy prices, and potentially further weaken the economy.
i am aware of a green paper from the european commission in 2000 which already considered the creation of a purchasing community in the energy supply sector.
we know that this cost of living crisis is being driven by war, the energy crisis and profit overruns, driving inflation to levels that we have not seen in europe for a very long time.
we european social democrats have concrete ideas on how to support families and businesses, how to reform the functioning of the energy market and strengthen social welfare in a fair way.
first - and most urgently - we need a european union winter solidarity package, including rent transfers to mitigate the impact of higher energy prices.
we cannot ask for solidarity from the families, from those who are most in need, and not apply that solidarity to those who are actually filling their pockets with the benefits that this energy crisis is bringing about.
finally, europe urgently needs to put forward a thorough reform of energy markets to diversify our energy sources and to reduce our dependence on putin and fossil fuels in general.
70% of the soaring inflation is driven by high energy prices.
because of the self-sufficiency of the us energy, china will continue to have access to russian gas and raw materials.
furthermore, a thorough reform of energy markets is needed to reduce our dependence on russia and fossil fuels in general.
i would first like to express my support for the european commission's proposal to make cohesion policy more flexible and to give member states the possibility to allocate up to 10% of their national allocation for the period 2014-2020 to measures to mitigate the impact of the current energy crisis.
the €40 billion thus made available to member states is badly needed in the current energy context and will allow them to strengthen their interventions to support vulnerable households, grant working capital grants to smes, and measures aimed at employment and job creation.
as we know, under the current eu market organisation, the price of electricity is set by the producers with the highest production costs - currently those producing electricity - based on natural gas, which is a barrier that needs to be removed immediately to allow european consumers to benefit from the low prices of electricity produced from renewable sources.
second, we have a major energy crisis, with a very high price that we are paying.
on all the energy bills this winter should appear the face of vladimir vladimirovich putin, because people, all europeans, suffer and suffer because of him.
so parliament is proposing over €533 million, more than half a billion for energy, through aid for energy bills, aid for renewable energy sources and climate change adaptation.
this money must be supplemented, of course, by the repowereu programme and other money, so as not to let the european economy fall because of energy.
citizens must have access to cheap and safe energy this winter, and if we have learned anything as europeans from the pandemic, it is that together we are much stronger.
the severe energy crisis, combined with the historically high level of inflation, the enduring post-pandemic recovery and the disruption of the global supply chains have fundamentally changed our economies.
all these developments have led to a large number of new needs: relief to ukraine, humanitarian aid, food aid to third countries, support for refugees, cost of strategic autonomy, and measures to face the energy crisis.
the council recognises that horizon europe is an essential instrument to support a successful digital transition, and to contribute to the union’s economic recovery, the green deal and a climate neutral economy.
regarding the expenditure for natural resources and environment, the council acknowledges the crucial role of the life programme, but it’s difficult to understand the european parliament’s intention of frontloading this expenditure with the proposal to increase the allocation for 2023 by more than eur 100 million, compared to the council position.
– madam president, minister, honourable members, first, i really would like to express my regret that i miss, due to this scheduled debate, the parallel college debate where we will discuss and decide about a long list of necessary measures related to the energy crisis and of course, some of them with some financial implications.
second, parliament proposes more money for a number of programmes for 2023. this includes research and innovation, energy independence and the twin transition.
first there was the covid pandemic and then the brutal russian aggression against ukraine, with its global effects, such as the food security crisis and the energy crisis.
all this has dramatically increased humanitarian needs and, most importantly, put the sustainable development goals at a critical juncture.
in this regard, the situation is of particular concern with regard to the climate emergency objectives and the need to support our partner countries in implementing climate change adaptation and mitigation actions.
we cannot afford to waste more time in not spending the money that we have, for the well—being of our citizens.
first, the multiannual european financial framework that we adopted in 2020 was not designed to deal with the successive crises we face: pandemic, war, high inflation, high energy prices, refugees, food insecurity and humanitarian crisis.
joint energy investment, research they will facilitate further.
some of them are: the digital tax, which is in the air after the oecd agreements; the need to review some form of taxation in the single market, linked to the oecd agreement as well; and perhaps also the solidarity contributions from the energy sector which we have approved, which we have promoted through this commission and the council, and which we should, in some way, help to consolidate in the community budget.
we know the problem of the energy crisis, which creates energy poverty, deprivation of people, causes a decline in economic power, the competitiveness of our economy.
from the point of view of parliament’s budget, this context of war and high inflation implies the need to respond to the increase of expenses due to inflation, in particular the rise of energy costs; the need to strengthen our capacity to respond to the increasing cybersecurity challenges, including additional specialised human resources, and the need to be prudent in our building policy.
we have this energy crisis.
the energy bills are the consequence of the european union turning a blind eye to putin's abuses and accepting his poisoned gift, which was not a gift at all, it cost dearly.
and that's because the tricksters in the suit didn't care about the cost of energy and its consequences.
so we really need to take stock and really make sure that the next repower eu is a renewable-only repower eu.
but what we’ve also seen is that the climate impacts are stronger and more intense than ever before.
what we're seeing here again, i think, is not so much a climate crisis, because the climate on this earth has been around for five billion years and has been changing for that long, but we're seeing a crisis of reason.
what we are witnessing here is once again an attempt - a naturally misguided attempt - by the european union to save the climate, the world climate.
we must ensure that this irresponsible energy policy we are witnessing here does not go further in the wrong direction.
the main effect of this exaggerated energy policy is that we are destroying our economy in europe and, of course, jobs.
the climate crisis has already hit, and the ones who will suffer are our children.
let's not deviate from our common and international goals and let's not let other crises put climate chaos in second place.
so i want to encourage you, commissioner, to represent our children at the sharm el-sheikh summit, to fight for them, to fight for their climate and for the future of this planet.
it is responsible for the multiple crises facing the european continent, starting with the security crisis, the humanitarian crisis and, of course, the energy crisis.
what's been happening in ukraine for over eight months, to see millions of people fleeing their homes, to see tens of thousands of people dead, to see hundreds of children killed, to see these days an energy system, of a peaceful country, that is being destroyed, is terror and that is terrorism.
we see how the most vulnerable classes, but also the middle classes in our countries, are suffering from the rise in the price of energy, of fuel, from the rise in interest rates which, in my country, portugal, is a very serious problem, from the increase in poverty, which has also become a fact in portugal.
and at the same time france, which president macron says is europe's greatest friend, continues to boycott the construction of energy interconnections between the iberian peninsula and the european continent.
and the last time i checked, 80 percent of inflation comes from rising energy prices, and the measure that had to be taken was to not have these exceptional profits.
faced with families struggling to pay their energy bills, faced with companies forced to stop production, faced with mayors facing the new poverty, good intentions are not enough, we need the unity that has made us win the pandemic and that tomorrow will allow us to win the selfishness that, despite us, risks being more dangerous than war.
war in ukraine, energy crisis and the highest rate of price increase in decades.
it is a good example where the european council plays a role in providing a platform for warring parties and supports the dialogue towards sustainable peace.
we need price limits - yes, of course - for minimum quotas of energy.
this combines reliability for consumers, businesses and energy-intensive industries with incentives to save.
these groups need to be assured that they will not be cut off from gas and electricity during the energy crisis.
the only thing that is repeated on this list of priorities is the rise in energy prices, which a year ago was a nascent threat and which today is a reality that worries millions of european citizens as winter approaches.
we have been in an energy crisis for almost a year and many things have been proposed, but the bill has not stopped rising.
we have spent a lot of money on energy subsidies that have gone anywhere but to the homes of european citizens.
since the beginning of russia's brutal war of aggression against ukraine, we have been asked: what measures can we take to keep energy affordable in europe and to keep our homes warm this coming winter?
the pandemic and the energy bill were just the last straw in this anti-european war.
and this will only be possible if agriculture is both sustainable and also intensive and productive.
that is why we need an agriculture which is at the same time progressive, knowledge-based, sustainable, intensive and productive.
but in the medium and long term, we must think about a coherent investment policy first and foremost, recognising that just as we in the european union have a diversity of agricultural models, so too do we have in partner countries, and recognising and integrating this diversity into our cooperation and partnership policy, and at the same time ensuring that we have coherence between our european policies, between agricultural policy, environmental policy.
we need to allow farmers to produce and think about sustainability, but trade policy and food chain policy must be consistent, otherwise we will not achieve our goal.
but the energy war has also reached the rest of europe.
this energy crisis is, in fact, a gas dependency crisis.
it is a crisis of wrong political choices: wrong political choices denying the reality of the dangers of climate change; wrong political choices, denying the reality of the dangers of being completely dependent for fossil fuels on a dictator –a dictator who wants to destroy our freedom and our democracy.
the only answer can be to build a system that is reliable with energy that is cheap and sustainable: wind and solar.
because despite this crisis, we are still wasting valuable energy every day in badly insulated housing and this costs households money and keeping warm in winter should not be just for those who can afford it.
and it is a key pillar of our climate action and our responsibility to lead with when it comes to cop27.
and here, the predicate is this: romanians, energy is expensive because the european union is blocking the supply of hydrocarbons from russia.
your excellences, if the blockage of romanians at the schengen border had also occurred in the field of data traffic, energy trade, communications engineers or doctors, the workforce in many countries of the european union would have been less qualified.
just when we thought the worst was over and we could return to a certain normality, putin orders an invasion of ukraine and causes a geopolitical, humanitarian, food, energy and inflationary crisis to which we have had to react and respond through different instruments.
with repowereu we want to achieve three specific objectives, which we share with the commission: to become energy independent from russia by diversifying energy suppliers, to save energy and, in addition, to accelerate the ecological transition.
and we must encourage investment in renewable energy and encourage the substitution of fossil fuels in industry and transport.
that brings me to another proposal which we have also included in our report: that the fight against energy poverty and support for the most vulnerable households be added as one of the objectives of this new chapter.
but i would like to discuss our position on a point relating to the principle of not causing significant damage to the environment.
we are well aware of the urgency of cutting off energy supplies from russia, especially some countries, but we must not forget that we are also facing a climate emergency.
so what we are proposing is that only for gas, only if the project is critical to ensuring the security of energy supply, only if there is no viable alternative project with clean energy and it is really urgent, only when all these circumstances are present, can a derogation be requested from the european commission.
i believe that, with all these conditions and limitations, we have managed to find a balance between the energy emergency we have and the climate emergency.
we have seen how our energy dependency on the russian federation can be a risk to our societies and to our economies.
and, secondly, improving our energy efficiency – the more efficient we are, the less energy we need to reach our objectives and that also means that we are less dependent on foreign sources.
to improve our infrastructure and to better connect our countries and our regions, because this will allow us to move the energy from where we have it to those countries and those regions who would really need it, from an lng terminal to a country that needs gas from a different, more reliable source as it reduces its consumption of russian gas.
infrastructure, energy efficiency, reducing the dependency on russia, and also the transition to a green economy to renewables, these are our priorities.
we need to create an energy union.
more transparency in accessing these funds properly involving local and regional authorities, as for smaller energy projects at local level – their involvement is beneficial.
we will invest in our continent to make it more sustainable and green for our next generations.
now we compliment this work with repowereu, allowing governments to improve their recovery plans with extra investment for more energy efficiency, for tackling energy poverty and for green energy resources.
ambition is when we find sustainable solutions for this winter, not only for the distant future.
and smes that are scared about this winter – and they’re already struggling with their energy bills – need micro—investment schemes to become more energy efficient now, not later, to reduce their energy bills now, not later.
we struggled to find together the proper balance between the pragmatic projects that our citizens need right now and the green and sustainable society we want to leave behind for our youth and children.
ambition, transparency, flexibility – this is how we can emerge even stronger from this new crisis and build a truly resilient and energy—independent europe.
madam president, this proposal falls far short of the answers needed in the energy sector.
more constraints on energy policies and national development strategies.
madam president, the new anti-people eu regulation on repowereu is channelling additional funds from the european recovery fund that will be 'squeezed' by the energy and construction groups as they enjoy a huge range of provocative immunities, for the construction of pipelines, renewable energy generation infrastructure and energy storage.
with the invoking of the european union's 'green race' with russia, the usa and china, against the backdrop of the imperialist war in ukraine, and while contradictions are intensifying even within the european union, even the preliminary regulations of the green deal are being removed, as is the so-called obligation to apply the principle of not causing significant damage to the environment.
the people are being offered the familiar crumbs of some temporary rebates on the unbearable energy bills, already paid for by the people, since, in the name of saving, they will again be frozen out or left in the dark.
with the impetus of the major strikes and demonstrations in greece, belgium, france and spain, the people are opposing the eu's strategy of precision and impoverishment, demanding wage increases, collective agreements, cheap energy, the abolition of taxes.
the first is that, as i said in my speech, we must be able to balance the energy emergency with the climate emergency and i think that, in this respect, the proposal made by this parliament with regard to the principle of 'not causing significant damage' is quite balanced.
it's very good that we saw that we have a strong position of the european parliament on the content of this programme and how we relate to lifting citizens out of energy poverty, how we can have more sustainable energy sources and not be dependent on russian gas.
the context generated by the russian invasion of ukraine and the effects of the covid-19 pandemic led to the increase in energy prices in the european union, thus underlining the importance of using renewable energy.
hydrogen, which is based on nuclear energy, will play an important role in replacing natural gas.
nuclear energy is a viable solution for achieving the european union's energy independence and climate neutrality objectives.
romania will receive eur 1,39 billion for investments in energy efficiency and investments in renewable energy sources.
tomorrow's vote marks an important step forward in addressing some of the structural problems that have piled up and surfaced with the energy crisis.
i am thinking in particular of the need to invest more in the development of new energy infrastructure, such as for the production of renewable energy and hydrogen, but also to overcome energy supply disruptions.
to mitigate the effects of the energy crisis, we have asked for and will continue to ask for more funds, because the challenges of the current energy crisis are much greater than the funds already allocated.
the challenges are many: the fragility of our families and households; energy poverty; the competitiveness of our businesses; and the very social cohesion of our societies.
but financial resources alone are not enough: to have a long-term sustainable response to the crisis, energy market reform measures temporary and structural are needed.
i would like to express my support for the establishment of the repowereu programme, with the objectives of ensuring our energy security in these turbulent times, diversifying our energy supply sources to democratic partners and accelerating the achievement of energy independence in the european union.
of course the commission supports the video games sector, which is considered, for all the reasons i have just mentioned, as a strategic sector, which is part of the rest of the audiovisual ecosystem, and which therefore benefits from the media programme under creative europe.
in addition, we are currently implementing a pilot project entitled 'understanding the value of a european video game society', which aims to capture the contours of the economic and societal value of the entire video game ecosystem, and whose conclusions we also expect to present before summer 2023. that is what i wanted to say to you before the debates that are to follow.
it's very important to realize that these games are not just a waste of time, as some people call them, for the new generation.
that is why i voted with all my heart and i believe that strict regulation is absolutely necessary to ensure a secure and trustworthy digital environment and to guarantee all european citizens the services essential for the functioning of the digital single market and critical infrastructures, because it is absolutely important to avoid any hostile attack by state actors.
we have the security crisis triggered by the russian federation and we have an energy crisis that was also triggered by the kremlin in order to blackmail the european union.
we need new mechanisms to support member states to support citizens to cope with these unprecedented price increases and, of course, to create new mechanisms to protect the internal market and, of course, solutions that will allow us to be fully energy independent in the future, not to be dependent for a moment on energy sources coming from the russian federation.
the hungarian government has made 17 comprehensive commitments in line with the expected expectations and has created the legal environment for them.
it’s key in providing support to high—risk, deep—tech start—ups with a unique mix of grants, equity investments and innovation ecosystem services.
we here in the european parliament have set out certain directions for the use of these funds: digitisation, sustainable development, focus on environmental aspects, but also the prioritisation of renewable energy.
it also extends the scope to eleven sectors, including energy, transport, banking, financial market infrastructures, health, drinking water, food, digital infrastructure.
and that's a waste of talent and knowledge.
together we can continue our mission to tackle generational inequalities, to fight crippling poverty, to keep us safer and ensure our security, to ensure equality of opportunity, to fight discrimination, to stand up for women, to show our lgbtiq community that this truly is a freedom zone, to create a framework for prosperity and economic growth, to beat climate change, to help create jobs, to ensure dignity to all.
and we now see exactly the same happening in this energy crisis.
it is europeans who see that the energy markets are international, not national.
that energy prices are being used as a geopolitical weapon.
it was already the case before the energy crisis broke out.
in 2019, 90% of europeans thought it was also europe’s task to guarantee the security of energy supply and to keep energy prices under control.
still more has to be done together with you – from the european green deal, to energy security and transition to migration reform.
i am thinking of several essential pieces of legislation: for the ecological transition, with the 'fit for 55' package; for the reform of the schengen area, which is so valuable to our fellow citizens; for the european union's role in the world economy, which is a vital part of the european union's future.
the european union is committed to the conquest of our sovereignty, our energy, digital, technological and strategic sovereignty, by implementing the versailles agenda.
resources and energy: the commission has already made a number of proposals.
we fought together with those who were shadow rapporteurs here, with whom we were a team, to get more for europe and for europeans, and we got one billion euros more, for three directions that correspond to the directions that people have asked us for, and these are energy and lower bills.
we got an extra 80 million for horizon europe, an extra 100 million for facilitating connecting europe which finances energy and transport networks.
an additional 30 million for the life program which is not just about the environment, it's also about energy.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
we should simultaneously work on our industry redeployment as we work on energy independence.
russia, our biggest energy trading partner, is bombing civilians every day.
this will enable citizens to experience the benefits of accession throughout the process and not only upon its completion to reward sustainable progress.
finally, at the berlin process summit that took place in the beginning of this month, we announced a substantial energy support package of eur 1 billion for the western balkans.
this will help the region to mitigate the increase of energy prices and their impact on the vulnerable households and smes over the immediate term.
the package will support the energy transition and security in the western balkans over the short and medium term.
we are convinced that, together with the implementation of the eur 30 billion economic and investment plan, this package will help the western balkans in addressing the immediate consequences of the energy crisis and build resilience and independence.
at this hour, as we debate in parliament, ukraine is under attack, the entire energy infrastructure is under attack.
it costs us biodiversity loss, loss of grasslands and mountain landscapes.
my dear colleagues, instead of shouting at the moon about how we should eliminate the threat of wolves and bears, let us concentrate on prevention, cohabitation and education, which are necessary for a europe that cares about the environment.
the next item is the debate on the report by martina dlabajová, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the 2030 political agenda road to the digital decade (com (2021) 0574 c9-0359/2021 2021/0293 cod)) (a9-0159/2022).
this is very important to enable us to achieve what we need to achieve by 2030 in the digital field, because there is no digital decade and no resilient europe without the excellence of our engineers, without better connectivity throughout europe, without smes also having all the necessary infrastructure, without competitive and sustainable processors and increasingly, it is hoped, made on the european continent.
there will be an absolute need for programmes and projects that teach citizens to use digital tools, create and live in a digital environment.
war in europe, inflation, climate change, the economic and energy crisis are creating a massive sense of insecurity; the european year of youth has not changed this.
in times of multiple crises, the assault on europe and geopolitical change with unpredictable outcome, we simply cannot afford to throw away almost a third of european citizens, and especially those people who provide us with food and preserve our traditions and environment.
i am thinking of the current challenges, such as the energy crisis and food security, but also of the strategic sectors that affect their economic development.
it is also useful that the strategies launched at european level in the framework of the green deal have a realistic and non-ideological approach, combining economic and environmental sustainability.
today, inflation, energy poverty, the cost of fuel and the risk of power cuts are still the biggest challenges facing our rural areas.
but it is they who can give us an answer to the major challenges we face, whether it be food security, energy independence or, of course, environmental issues.
but i am convinced that rural areas can also be at the origin of the modernisation of european society, if we invest enough in these areas and lock young people into the rural environment.
we are entering the new financial perspective with a budget that is 8% smaller than in previous years, and the sector is facing unprecedented challenges: the reform of the cap and the new conditionality of payments, the effects of the pandemic, the galloping prices of production costs, mainly energy and fertilisers.
rural areas are an important part of our natural, identity and cultural heritage, they provide us with vital raw materials, they play an important role in energy production and environmental protection, and they play a vital role in ensuring food security, being crucial in making the social, green and digital transition.
last but not least, i call on the european commission to present an integrated approach to rural development financing based on a strengthened synergy between pillar 2 of the cap and the cohesion funds in order to provide the necessary financing for sustainable rural development that guarantees a high quality of life for its inhabitants.
however, the time has now come to help ukraine in terms of its energy system and its stability, so that it can at least have reimbursements for its energy network.
also, across the big border that we have with ukraine, to try to help supply ukraine with energy that should be at least partly paid for by the european union.
ukrainians, despite their heroic resistance, now feel the cold, the deprivation, the lack of energy for their lives.
but it is reasonable that the commission should assess, as the conflict continues, the sustainability of those measures which may have the effect of worsening the supply and food crisis, particularly in the countries most in need of food supplies, such as, of course, those on the african continent.
when we talk about a cultural strategy for the european union, we need to take into account the creation and support of a cultural ecosystem that is less fragmented and focused on balance than on the protection of copyright and the importance of access to culture for all citizens.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the need for a dedicated budget to make the child guarantee a reality - an urgency in times of energy and food crisis (2022/2996 ((rsp)).
together with the energy crisis, it has also fuelled spiralling energy and food prices, leading to increased costs of living.
high food and energy prices made access, in particular, to healthy meals and adequate housing more difficult.
the debate is also about energy, food, inflation and, of course, the challenges posed by the influx of refugees.
the crisis of energy and food will worsen the already dramatic life of andre, maria, luis and alice unless they are lucky to have governments that care about them.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the pandemic, the energy crisis, the security crisis, the refugee crisis has brought us face to face with a new reality, and clearly this tool is a hugely important one, because it gives us the chance to do more to help children in vulnerable areas, and any serious analysis we look at shows us how policies for child welfare and development can generate a fourfold return on investment at the societal level.
to have romania and bulgaria outside of schengen, in the middle of an economic crisis, energy crisis, with a war on the borders is not only discriminatory, but absolutely stupid.
mr. president, europe is facing a serious energy crisis.
with energy sanctions, europe has shot itself in the foot.
according to a survey by the german chamber of commerce and industry, 8 percent of german industrialists plan to relocate production outside europe because of unbearably high energy prices.
because of the energy crisis, gas prices are six times the long-term average.
this european parliament will be very closely monitoring the full and sustainable implementation of the milestones.
i would also like to leave a message to the president of the commission on energy interconnections.
this is a major deadlock in the creation of a new energy link between the iberian peninsula and the european continent.
many smes can't pay their energy bills and have to close.
at the same time, energy companies continue to speculate to enrich themselves in outrageous ways.
that is why we must lower energy prices, protect citizens by raising the minimum wage and guarantee a minimum income for the most disadvantaged.
madam president, dear commissioner, minister, emissions must have a price that changes our behaviour.
commissioner, people cannot eat or burn carbon credits.
i call on the european commission to stop blocking the use or any investments in coal, nuclear or gas power plants, so we can keep up with the demand for energy and produce affordable energy.
we have to stop allowing a permissive environment for foreign interference in our democracy.
it is a fact that the fight of some against nuclear energy, for example, has had the effect of increasing our dependence on russian gas.
together with increasing threats to their physical and online safety, legal threats and abusive litigation adds to an environment where hostile activity against journalists is growing and can have a serious impact on their willingness and ability to continue their work.
furthermore, the macroeconomic environment is also more challenging amid rising inflation and interest rates.
finding a strong and common response in this challenging environment requires deep reflection about the future of the union budget and our joint efforts as europeans.
the commission will carefully assess the sustainability of the expenditure ceilings and subceilings of the current mff, because the union budget must continue enabling us to deliver on our policy priorities.
imagine: one in five europeans is suffering at the edge of poverty in this multiple crisis that we are having today – energy, inflation, and a potential economic crisis as well.
these numbers will grow at the same pace as inflation and food and energy prices increase across the eu.
because we noticed from the beginning that we don't have the money for energy, we don't have for moldova, we don't have for ukraine as much as we need.
now on the subject of the petitions: a large number of those were related to the public health emergency triggered by the outbreak and spread of covid-19; fundamental rights, health and environment were the most important topic of the petitions.