the programme, unsurprisingly, features the renewal of europe and reindustrialisation to support the ecological and digital transformation.
france has taken over the rotating eu presidency at a turbulent time not only for the union as a whole, which continues to struggle with the coronavirus pandemic, with high energy prices, but also for president emmanuel macron himself, who will probably have to deal more with the election campaign than the european agenda.
paris aims to bring to a successful conclusion the contradictory legislation on digital services, as well as the introduction of a so-called carbon tax, which should help member states in the necessary transition to a greener economy.
france and slovakia also share a common interest in preserving nuclear energy as a sustainable, greener energy source for as long as possible, even through the so-called taxonomy, and paris will certainly try to make this happen despite the opposition of countries such as germany, austria and luxembourg.
in the eu, we have to take into account the different conditions in each country, while slovakia needs to invest not only in renewable sources but also in gas and, for a long time, in nuclear energy to decarbonise successfully.
mainstream media initially reported that the protesters in kazakhstan were just ordinary people who were bothered by the ten-cent increase in the price of energy and gas.
madam president, the eu strategy for offshore renewable energy is an opportunity to support investments, and the eu has the potential to be a global leader in this sector.
we have to make sure that the deployment and investments in offshore renewable energy will be cost effective.
we need to safeguard our climate and energy but also the diversity of targets, which is crucial for balance between large—scale deployment of offshore and the protection of biodiversity.
fossil fuels and especially fossil subsidies should be phased out as soon as possible, but the different starting positions as well as the different potential of member states to produce renewable energy should be respected.
in this context, it is fair also to allow at least some member states to use decarbonised gas and nuclear energy for a very, i would say, transitional period under very strict emissions and safety requirements.
tobacco can be harmful, the wrong diet can be harmful, being overweight can be harmful, too much sunbathing can be harmful, environmental factors are harmful.
this is why the implementation of the sustainable chemical strategy is going to be a really crucial element in fighting cancer in europe.
we need to eliminate pops, the worst of the worst chemicals that contaminate the waste stream, and we need to prevent these hazardous chemicals from spoiling the circular economy.
we need the chemicals used by the society to be sustainable and safe by design.
we also need to encourage the sustainable production of toys and to put a sustainability label on toys.
the rules must also be consistent with our other objectives, which are to combat climate change and conserve our resources.
a single market based on harmonisation from above is good, but managed in a fair, responsible and ecological way.
barriers, particularly in the services sector, are holding back the potential of european companies, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises operating in a cross-border environment.
thanks to the european green deal and because of the coronavirus crisis, there is more emphasis than ever on sustainability and local production.
we have many rules which are also important, which serve to protect workers, the environment, etc.
so while we are addressing the barriers, we must also respect the right of member states to ensure proper environmental protection, consumer protection or workers' rights.
this is a considerable asset, which we must now fully exploit and put to the service of our new priorities: strengthening our strategic autonomy and propelling europe to the status of a model in the ecological and digital transition.
you will recall that the last report on the social economy which i put to the vote in this parliament was in 2008 or 2009. but things are changing, thanks to the commission, to the work of commissioner schmit with the social economy action plan, to the words that commissioner schinas said tonight, to the commitments that he has made, and to what commissioner breton is doing with the social economy ecosystem as well.
look at hungarian prime minister viktor orban as he was at peace, constructively negotiating in moscow about cooperation, about cheaper energy prices.
the fact that young people are organizing global climate protests and have concrete ideas for the sustainable transformation of our societies should be taken for granted, as should the humane, solidarity-based treatment of refugees.
let us create functioning mechanisms for sustainable participation and inclusion in policy-making, not just on climate and environmental protection, but in all areas.
if we create more opportunities for cross-border learning and cultural exchange, we will give more weight to europe, the eu, sustainable economic reconstruction and solidarity already in school with the same content everywhere.
because it's happening here and now, it's not going to wait for us to solve the pandemic or the climate crisis or the economic problems.
the european union has a chance to be a leader not only in digitisation and information technology or the environment, but also in the fight against racism.
please, let's not waste this opportunity.
if we now motivate them to return by debt, we could get into trouble at a time when we in the eu will lack public resources not only to maintain the jobs created by the state, but also to remedy today's crises, demographic developments or climate change.
even before russia invaded ukraine, our citizens and european businesses were already experiencing the explosion in energy prices.
we must ensure that energy remains affordable and that our homes throughout europe do not get cold in the future.
i think the commission must allow, for example, that the energy taxes levied by the member states can be suspended altogether, that is to say not only reduced but also - in such a dramatic situation - suspended altogether.
i think the russian war of aggression is a political turning point, and we also need to re-think the issue of energy taxation.
we are discussing today a question for an oral reply from parliament to the commission, which asks, among other things, what measures could be taken to control the political pressure in this difficult, crisis-ridden political situation with the exploding energy prices.
start the energy revolution in full swing.
we need to promote energy efficiency, because the cheapest gas is the one we don't use.
remove the obstacles to green energy development by citizens and businesses alike in a way that is environmentally sensitive.
not waiting for the climate crisis to get worse.
that's where the climate check helps, which puts the emissions fees on people, not polluters.
putin won't cut off our green energy or raise our price on the stock market.
it's ours, it's the energy of freedom.
mr president, today, we have to talk about both the energy prices hike and energy security.
first, ets emissions allowances.
however, we should not forget about our own energy security.
the council welcomes the economic priorities proposed by the commission in the 2022 annual review of sustainable growth, which aims at a sustainable and equitable recovery.
however, in this difficult and uncertain environment, we have economic, social and environmental challenges to address and work to do.
supply disruptions and other factors aggravating inflation, such as higher energy prices, are also likely to intensify due to the current geopolitical situation.
we therefore invite member states to regularly reassess the use, effectiveness and adequacy of support measures and to be prepared to adapt them, if necessary, to changing circumstances while preserving the sustainability of public finances.
we will see overall higher inflation, more pressure on energy and food prices, and market volatility.
with its very large investments in energy efficiency, decarbonisation and renewables, as well as in the resilience of vital infrastructure, the rrf is a powerful tool to reduce our energy dependency and build europe’s future stability.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
now we are facing the climate and biodiversity crisis, the – hopefully – post-pandemic recovery, but also the security and energy threats that culminated with the russian invasion of ukraine.
the new deal, including the acceleration of the green energy drive, that we need to do to cut our strategically dangerous dependence on russian fossil fuels, needs to be properly reflected in the semester’s monitoring framework.
true sustainability, fitting the eu into planetary limits, needs to rest on three pillars: the economic, the social and the environmental.
we need to ensure that we are coherent in all three of them, and that means from an energy perspective that we need to further integrate the eu’s climate, environmental – including biodiversity – and social objectives in a more comprehensive manner.
economic indicators are not enough in times of need to reduce our ecological footprint.
we need to check properly the alignment of the recovery and resilience facility (rrf) and multiannual financial framework (mff) with the climate and biodiversity spending targets, but also policy objectives.
we need a semester that looks at progress towards sustainability as a whole, not just part of it.
i also welcome the efforts of this report which sets out a common set of rules for sustainability, safety, labelling and information related to the use of batteries.
the report also defines the requirements for the collection, treatment and recycling of waste batteries.
in this way, we strengthen the functioning of the single market, promote a circular economy and reduce the environmental and social impact throughout the life cycle of batteries.
ladies and gentlemen, the future will increasingly be powered by energy stored in batteries, and it is up to us to lay the legislative foundations that will make them environmentally acceptable and, of course, economically viable.
as the eu moves from the coal and steel union to becoming the world's first climate-neutral region, electrification is the big key.
it is therefore important that the sustainable transition also becomes sustainable.
the whole life cycle must be sustainable.
our batteries must be produced with full respect for human rights, with sustainable production methods and with as much recycled material as possible.
i am therefore pleased with the progressive mandate we are taking today in the battery regulation, with five clear increases in ambition: 1. higher targets for the recycling of portable batteries; 2. all car and industrial batteries will be collected; 3. clear labelling of the carbon footprint of batteries throughout the manufacturing process; 4. more common standards for chargers; 5. manufacturers must ensure that standards of social and environmental sustainability are met.
their extraction must respect human rights and environmental standards and must not endanger protected areas.
equally important, the law extended the duty of care of economic operators for human rights and our environment to the entire value chain, that is, to all batteries, all materials, including waste treatment.
in the fight against climate change, we cannot be blind to the loss of biodiversity and to the need to protect soil and water.
to be sustainable, you have to think holistically.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the ideology of the green deal gives europeans the blind illusion that the ecological transition of our one, tiny europe can save us from the so-called climate crisis, while everything out there around us is leading to serious shortages of strategic raw materials.
the commission should open its eyes to this reality: the objectives and timetables for achieving climate neutrality are not realistic and to think of achieving them by relying entirely on electricity will not only go against the principle of technological neutrality but will make us even more dependent on third countries, with the blessing of the much-vaunted energy sovereignty.
we know that today only 12% of aluminium, 22% of cobalt and 16% of nickel are recycled, and 52% of waste is actually collected.
that is why the inclusion of a duty of care is so important to ensure that the batteries we use do not cause environmental or social damage.
but more batteries means more potentially hazardous chemicals that will need to be replaced by more sustainable alternatives, as required by reach legislation at present.
only then will the transition be sustainable.
if we protect nature at home, we can't destroy the environment for our own needs where we can't see it.
in this context, let me mention the european battery alliance established by the vice-president of the european commission, maros šefčovič, is a good example of how to decrease both dependency on foreign countries and emissions at the same time.
current regulation has to be used to demand stronger sustainability and performance requirements and clear targets for waste collection and recycling efficiency.
we must make europe more attractive for the development of sustainable raw materials projects, while respecting the highest environmental standards and protecting public health.
madam president, when i see the impact that some of these sanctions are beginning to have on the european economy, how some of the basic raw materials are beginning to be lacking, how factories are ceasing to produce, how the big car manufacturers are closing down, how the prices of energy and food are skyrocketing, i have to ask you whether the aim of these anti-russian sanctions is to punish the russian federation or to economically devastate europe, because many of these sanctions are really very badly prepared to the detriment of europe.
madam president, one of the effects of russian aggression is related to the environment.
we know from studies that higher spending on armaments is associated with higher greenhouse gas emissions.
based on your questions and remarks, i understand you share the commission’s concerns that our efforts need to focus on the three main issues: ensuring affordable energy prices for european consumers; security of supply – meaning that we are fully prepared for the next winter season regardless of what happens; and diminishing and eventually completely removing our dependence on russian fossil fuels.
we said it, as did the european commission, in the introduction to this debate, and this has been widely relayed in the trade: there are indeed two types of crises that are cumulating today and that result in a very significant increase in energy prices.
in any case, in this debate we must not only uphold the acquis of the internal market, and certainly strengthen our energy interconnections - which is imperative in the light of the tensions today - but also better protect our consumers, with regulatory tools that must be reconstructed or devised.
the second type of response, which is intended as a reaction to the structural problem of dependence i mentioned, is, in essence, that of energy sovereignty.
we see the need for this even more clearly - and i repeat, this was also mentioned in the debate - since the european project has been based precisely on energy sovereignty from the outset.
today we need to set common climate targets at european level - this has been a given for just over two years now - for 2030 and 2050, and together we need to accelerate our transition.
this is the subject of the legislative package on adjustment to objective 55 which we are seeking to push forward in the council under the french presidency, with the aim of developing green, affordable, stable and sovereign energy sources, with national choices which may differ, but which in our view must include both renewable energy and nuclear energy, both of which meet these criteria.
it is also - as the vice-president and many other speakers have just said - the reduction of our energy consumption whenever we can, because european dependence is also a fact of energy consumption which we must control better.
with these tools for accelerating, diversifying and reducing consumption, i believe we have in our hands the tools for european energy independence, which, as you know, france has been defending for a long time, and which this council presidency has put on its agenda, but which, because of the tragic events we are experiencing - the russian invasion of ukraine - requires us to act even faster.
the eu is working tirelessly to address russia's high energy dependence and the associated price increases, as well as to ensure energy security and supply.
we in the socialist group in the european parliament believe that solutions are needed to deal with the rise in energy prices, particularly electricity prices.
the solutions are to accelerate the deployment of indigenous renewable energy and short-term measures to decouple the price of gas from electricity, while eliminating our excessive energy dependence on russia.
energy isolation from russia is a necessity for our future and a moral obligation towards ukraine.
the solution is not only to diversify the suppliers of the current energy mix, but also to change the overall mix, and in particular to innovate to increase energy efficiency.
each country has and will have its own energy mix, but the fundamental goal of our independence from russian raw materials is shared.
cooperation in the energy sector is essential, particularly in the field of energy storage and joint energy purchasing.
once again, the european union has set itself objectives without really asking itself whether they are feasible or what the consequences might be: the commission is demanding energy independence in the shortest possible time to tackle a problem which has been known for a long time but which has been ignored until now.
further increases in energy costs or energy rationing would have a devastating impact on our economy, already weakened by the years of the pandemic.
i would like to conclude by reiterating that the greatest risk is that citizens and businesses will pay for the consequences of years of wrong energy policies, characterized by compromises and green mania.
following the breakthrough of the european union's coordinated and solidarity-based response to the pandemic, the response to the impacts of actions to support ukraine and the guarantee of access to sustainable, affordable and secure energy for european consumers must be achieved also by following a coordinated, fair and solidarity-based course of action.
the commission communication repowereu opens up lines of action for emergency support to households and businesses, for regulation and joint action in the market and for strategic restructuring of the energy market, in particular through increased focus on renewable energy and interconnections.
the next item is the debate on the following items: oral question to the council on the state of play of the modernisation of the energy charter treaty [2022/2510 (rsp) ], by bernd lange, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-000009/2022 b9-0009/22), and oral question to the commission on the state of play of the modernisation of the energy charter treaty [2022/2510 (rsp) ], by bernd lange, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-000008/2022 b9-0008/22).
in this context, the commission has published an initial proposal for the modernisation of the energy charter treaty.
the energy charter treaty has agreed to published after each round a common public communication.
so the commission remains of the opinion that the best outcome is to have a reformed energy charter treaty in line with the eu’s sustainable development and climate action objectives, rather than having an unreformed energy charter treaty applying to the eu and member states during the 20 years sunset period triggered by unilateral withdrawal.
beyond the eu, a reformed energy charter treaty will leverage a larger collective, positive impact by all contracting parties.
this is very important considering that sustainable development and climate action are global challenges that the eu cannot tackle alone.
but as i said also in my introductory remarks, if we cannot achieve these objectives, we will consider other options, including withdrawal from the energy charter treaty.
it is preferable to have a modernised charter that covers other countries and could apply its requirements adapted to the paris agreement, the ecological transition and the end of fossil fuels.
crucially, europe must speed up a policy of zero dependence from the kremlin, disentangle europe from russian energy supplies, implement binding embargoes and stop indirectly funding these bombs.
the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) report that was presented today, again demonstrates how big the challenges humanity’s facing.
and the war in ukraine has only increased our sense of urgency because now nobody can find an excuse, in my view, to not speed up the end of the overuse of fossil fuels, to not speed up europe’s stronger reliance on its own energy production, which has to be solar, wind, biogas, geothermal, if we have it.
we cannot be in a position to be blackmailed, but especially also because that’s the only way we can fulfil the pledges we’ve made in fit for 55. that’s the only way we’ll get to a reduction of at least 55% by 2030 of our emissions.
and this is the only way we have a shot at climate neutrality in 2050. now, the other reason why i believe we should stick to our plans and perhaps even revisit them, is that the only way we can convince others in the world to do more, who need to do much more than we do, that’s also crystal clear in the ipcc report, is if we show the way how it can be done.
so from my point of view, a little bit about climate adaptation: i think it's extremely important that we support our foresters to reforest climate-friendly forests, that we maintain and support sustainable forestry in europe.
and that, in my view, is a central idea, a central point in adaptation to climate change.
it is clear that we must act quickly to halt at least part of the climate change and at the same time become more independent of energy imports from russia.
the solution is renewable energy and energy efficiency.
and we have to be more involved now because of russia, but also because of climate protection.
but if we get our 55 percent and the americans get their target, then the americans still have more than twice the per capita emissions.
and we need to -- this is what the ipcc says over and over again -- have a carbon price with social compensation in all parts of the economy and really focus more on the negative emissions now.
we can't waste any time here.
it's no news that we're busy fighting the climate crisis.
the shocking thing about the un's sixth climate report is how many people are already affected by climate change.
so, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the middle of negotiations on the eu's climate policy.
we can still do a lot for the climate and for future generations.
but we must not try to solve our problems in a way that ends up creating new climate problems in the future.
– madam president, we are discussing here now the working group iii contribution to the sixth intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) assessment report.
yes, the climate is changing.
now, from a climate perspective, but also geopolitically, it’s more clear than ever that we should stop our expansion on fossils.
i’m talking about renewables and energy efficiency.
in europe, about 30% of our population is affected by water stress, which is a situation where there is insufficient water of sufficient quality to meet the demands of people and the environment during an average year.
as the climate crisis is deepening, the situation is expected to worsen.
moreover, water is a crucial input for hydroelectric and thermoelectric energy production.
with 1 300 gw installed capacity in 2019, hydropower became the world’s largest single renewable energy source.
therefore, minimising the risk to water security from the climate crisis will require a full systems use that considers the direct impacts of mitigation measures on water resources and their indirect effect to our efforts to tackling climate change.
the third part of the sixth assessment report makes one thing very clear: the climate crisis is not waiting for us to act, it will continue if we do not act.
i would like to begin by thanking all the scientists around the world who are increasing our knowledge of climate change with these reports each time, and who are not being diverted from their course by scientific deniers and critical governments who deny climate change.
with the third progress report, we now have everything we need to take decisive action on the climate crisis.
the cost of renewables has fallen by 85% since 2010. our carbon budget is gone in ten years.
not a single country is meeting its climate goals.
the national climate plans that have been submitted are putting us at 3.2 degrees.
we must protect our forests and we must - and i am coming to the end of this - above all ensure that we do not grow more energy crops and food on the scarce land.
the extreme weather we are experiencing in slovakia and across europe is caused by climate change.
man-made climate change.
the climate crisis is here, and we're heading for a climate catastrophe.
reducing emissions is not just about green energy and ending waste.
it's also about ending our dependence on putin's murderous regime and lowering our energy bills.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
the next item is the report by mr zdzisław krasnodębski, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on guidelines for trans-european energy infrastructure and repealing regulation (eu) no 347/2013 (com ((2020) 0824 c9-0417/2020 2020/0360 ((cod)) the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament.
mr president, dear colleagues, ten-e is a key to connect our energy infrastructure within the eu.
without robust investments into infrastructure and interconnections between member states it will not be effectively possible to decarbonise our economy and achieve our climate and energy goals, nor decrease our dependency and increase our autonomy.
if europe wants to decrease or even cut off dependency on russian gas and strengthen its energy security, then cross-border energy infrastructure is crucial.
in this context, i welcome the repowereu plan of the commission to urgently reduce eu demand for russian gas, including measures to respond to rising energy prices, replenish gas stocks for next winter, diversify gas supplies, and above all speed up the rollout of the renewables.
we should not forget about the countries like mine, slovakia, that have worse conditions for renewables such as photovoltaic or wind energy.
if we want to increase our autonomy, we need solidarity within the member states and infrastructure to distribute green energy and ensure no one is left behind.
madam president, europe's energy infrastructure, as the climate crisis and the terrible war in ukraine show, is no longer just about connectivity, but is the infrastructure that will enable us to meet our climate goals and guarantee our security.
what's destabilizing our climate, what's threatening our security and ultimately threatening our future and our survival is fossil fuels, and this infrastructure needs to enable us to disconnect from fossil fuels.
when you were working to undermine the european energy system and signing various green pacts while continuing to buy russian oil and gas, were the nationalists guilty again?
and let’s be honest about the reasons behind this long—awaited decision: it was never about the ecj ruling or the commission’s guidelines, nor some recent transgressions in hungary, because these have been documented for over a decade; it is about the massive toxic influence of one non-democratic leader on the entire eu political system, poisoning everything from values to energy policies, to our security and foreign policy choices.
in countries like my own, slovakia, this poverty can be further exacerbated by the consequences of sanctions on energy resources from russia.
madam president, the proposers wanted to help the environment with this proposal, and that is a good goal.
however, when extending the life of products, we should not only take into account that if old products have a longer life, we will not harm the environment by producing new products.
we should also take into account that, according to expert studies, repaired old products often do more harm to the environment than new products of the new ecological generation.
it is therefore important that such designs are analysed now and in the future and that their environmental impact is precisely quantified.
i do not think that it is necessary to increase the number of meps at a time when we are facing many crises (russian aggression, high inflation, rising energy prices, the coronavirus pandemic ...), which will make it increasingly necessary to rapidly optimize public spending.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr martin hojsík, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending annexes iv and v to regulation (eu) 2019/1021 on persistent organic pollutants (com (2021) 0656 c9-0396/2021 2021/0340 (cod)) the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
– mr president, as the rapporteur for the review of the waste limits for the persistent organic pollutants, i’m very proud of what we have achieved in the envi committee, but also of the great support from all the major groups.
i would therefore like to thank all my colleagues who are supporting low, responsible limits for the content of the pops in the waste.
a recent report from the scientists, who concluded that the chemical pollution has now passed the safe limits for humanity, is indeed and should be a global wake—up call.
therefore, what we decide during this review, and with the other co—legislators, will have an impact on public health and environment.
it will have impact beyond national and european boundaries, as the waste limits also influence what we dispose in third countries, especially in developing countries.
it is also why african countries are desperately asking eu to adopt low limits, because they see this as a light at the end of the tunnel to limit pollution to their own environment from the waste that we dump there.
the limits that we adopt decide whether to allow those dangerous chemicals to enter our lives through waste.
adoption of the envi report means a clear ‘no’ the toxic economy, clear ‘no’ to toxic recycled material, because these are waste limits.
but dumping of waste, think of resource for the circular economy.
so i hope that tomorrow we will defend the result from the environment committee, and it will help to free our economy from pollution, increase the trust of our citizens in recycled materials and products.
as a step forward towards toxic—free future, my envi report proposes to adopt a limit of 200 mg/kg on some of pbdes, brominated flame retardants, with a review to lower it further in next 5 years; 200 mg/kg for the hbcdd, with a review to decrease it to 100 mg in 5 years; considerably lower limits for dioxins and furans; thresholds for the pfoas to reflect the commitment in the chemicals strategy for sustainability to reduce the contamination by the pfas that sadly many people are affected with; limit of 420 mg/kg for short—chain chlorinated paraffins; and we are also adding a new group of perfluorinated substances that will be soon listed – and by soon, i mean early june – to the convention; last but not least, we address the incoherence between the classification of all waste containing old and new pops to ensure effective treatment of all pops waste.
i am pleased to see that we agree on the need to increase the scope and the stringency of our control on persistent organic pollutants in waste.
in doing so, we will ensure tighter and better waste management.
it will mean destroying greater amounts of these pollutants in waste and ensuring that what remains is managed in a sound way minimising emissions to the environment.
the commission too would like to go further, but when we proposed these limits, we did so on the basis of the best information available and on the basis of a balanced assessment of what is feasible from a technical, environmental and socioeconomic point of view.
we need to find a base that allows recyclers and other operators to continue and even accelerate the essential work they do in reducing the presence of persistent organic pollutants in waste.
i myself was in the arctic more than 20 years ago to witness the toxic pollution there.
i was on the agbogbloshie dumpsite in ghana, where computers with pbdes from europe are ending and polluting the local environment, and i witnessed the measurements of mountain goats from the high tatras in slovakia, polluted with pops chemicals.
we really need to clean up our economy of the toxic chemicals, of the worst toxic chemicals, which the pops are, to start proper transformation to a sustainable circular economy without the toxic chemicals, with the trust of the consumers, and with the future that fits the planetary limits.
we need the stronger, more robust digital infrastructure that you mentioned, the ecosystem of excellence, the ecosystem of trust, an ai industrial strategy with sustainable investments, but also clear regulations for ai in the area of security and stronger cooperation, including cybersecurity, etc.
at the same time, we must strike a balance between the need to implement new technologies and the implementation of environmental policy.
we have seen unprecedented european coordination, solidarity and unity against this war, and this must remain the blueprint for us going forward, be it on further sanctions, on sending aid to ukraine, on disentangling ourselves from energy dependence on the kremlin, helping the millions forced to flee, or building a new security and defence union.
we must build our future in a sustainable manner that protects the next generation.
in terms of responding to people’s demands on policy changes in health, climate, security and more, no suggestion for change should be off—limits because, if not now, then when?
a crisis that is at once humanitarian, security, energy, economic, and that is occurring while our countries are still grappling with the consequences of the greatest health emergency in the last hundred years.
and we must ensure that the management of the crises we are experiencing does not lead us back to square one, but allows a transition to a more just and sustainable economic and social model.
we need a pragmatic federalism, one that embraces all the areas affected by the transformations under way - from the economy to energy to security.
from an economic point of view, the conflict has caused instability in the functioning of global supply chains and volatility in the price of raw materials and energy.
as for energy, the price of crude oil, which fluctuated between $70 and $90 a barrel between december and january, is now around $105 after a peak of $130 in march.
energy policy is an area in which the mediterranean countries can and must play a key role for the future of europe.
such energy dependence is economically unwise and geopolitically dangerous.
we have supported the sanctions that the european union has decided to impose on russia, including those in the energy sector.
and we've taken important simplification steps to accelerate the production of renewable energy, which is essential to making our growth more sustainable.
the countries of southern europe, and italy in particular, are strategically placed to harness this energy production and to act as a bridge to the northern countries.
at the same time, we must find solutions now to protect households and businesses from the rising cost of energy.
moderating fuel bills and prices is also a way to make any sanctions more sustainable over time.
we also want to look at the structural mechanism of electricity price formation, which depends on the cost of producing the most expensive energy source, which is usually gas.
even in normal times, the production costs of energy from fossil sources are higher than those of renewable sources.
as the share of renewable energy in our energy mix increases, we will have prices that are less and less representative of the generation cost of the entire market if we continue to have this system.
the pressure on the gas market has been passed on to the electricity market, although the cost of producing renewables, from which we now obtain a substantial share of our energy, has remained very low.
the emergency management of these surcharges has many limitations, first and foremost the sustainability for the public budget.
the problem of energy costs will be the focus of the next european council.
the ecological and digital transitions require us to make unwavering investments.
the european union should broaden its scope to provide countries that request it with new funding to mitigate the impact of energy surcharges.
as regards long-term investment in areas such as defence, energy, food security and industry, the model is the next generation eu.
we urgently need an energy union, a fiscal union, a health union, a defence union.
supporting ukraine's self-defence and legitimate aspirations requires us to rethink our internal policies in the union, our aim of moving forward in a transition towards more environmentally and humanly sustainable economic development.
it is urgent to agree on an energy policy that will free us from fossil fuel imports and that will support renewable energy sources by diversifying sources, which must be accompanied by measures that also guarantee affordable prices for businesses and households.
there are companies which, with the rise in the price of energy, are making exorbitant profits at the cost, i insist, of many families falling into poverty and not even being able to pay the electricity bills and therefore something must be done with these profits that have fallen from the sky to prevent this injustice.
once again, the european union must show itself ready to do whatever is necessary to come to the aid of the ukrainians and ensure our indispensable energy autonomy.
only the transition to renewable energy and energy security can ensure our energy independence in the long term, all of which will enable us to meet our share of the climate challenge.
and on that, i listened to you, i had the impression that we shared the conviction, but when i hear your minister of the environment pleading, like a monomaniac, for the arrival of nuclear power in italy, while this energy has been rejected massively by the italian people barely ten years ago, i understand it no more.
i remember that in our many exchanges, the mario draghi central banker refused to integrate the climate constraint into his monetary policy, on the grounds that it was within the competence of the policy.
i listened to you and i am glad to hear that mario draghi, who has become the head of the italian government, has heard the message: it is up to political leaders to show leadership, and the energy transition is an imperative not only climate, but also geopolitics.
there is still no doubt that the member states as a whole will succeed in making the european union the world leader in ecological and solidarity transition and a respected geopolitical power.
we have made our prosperity dependent on cheap raw materials and energy, and therefore have no control over production levels, risking the paralysis of entire economic sectors, but the strategic autonomy we all invoke today will not exist until we fundamentally change our industrial development model and our socioeconomic model.
but first, i think we need to be clear on one thing: for this reversal to be sustainable, we should all think in terms of a race to the top, demand quality, support the cost and of course demand the return.
what is needed now is more pragmatism and less ideology, more concrete action and less announcements on the issues you have touched upon - employment, energy, environment and defence - in order to find a solution the eu can refer to the energy issue.
as we are seeing, energy mix varies from country to country, and needs and lifestyles vary depending on the capital city we are in.
it is equally important to reflect on the errors which have led to a lack of independence on strategic issues, which have seen industrial policy increasingly relocated in the absence of a capacity for autonomy in terms of energy, agriculture and food.
the first is to put in place strong, concrete strategic action, as you said, to deal with the issue of sanctions, which must be backed up by an adequate compensation fund that takes account of the needs and requirements of individual countries from the energy point of view, but also and above all from the point of view of exports, which is one of the fundamental aspects that risks bringing a country like ours to its knees.
they're levying a crisis profit tax on energy companies.
but europe will have a good future if there is a whatever it takes to protect against the exploding prices of energy, rents and foodstuffs, so that the crisis and inflation do not eat away at wages and pensions, a whatever it takes to protect the climate and democracy from the authoritarian right.
and then at the same time we take advantage of these difficult months and we start to work concretely towards energy independence from russian gas and oil.
we're fighting the energy pandemic with the same tools we used during the healthcare pandemic.
we replicate the success of the recovery fund and approve an energy recovery fund: this is the proposal of the five star movement to maximise the development of renewable energy.
we need europe's firepower and we ask you to insist on this at the next european council because our credibility is at stake in the matter of energy.
i would also like to remind you that this house, thanks also to the contribution of the five star movement, voted four legislative proposals from the waste package.
at the same time, we are making the most of these difficult months and are beginning to work concretely towards energy independence from russian gas and oil.
we're fighting the energy pandemic with the same tools we used during the healthcare pandemic.
we're replicating the success of the recovery fan of approve, an energy recovery fund.
this is the proposal of the five star movement to maximise the development of renewable energy.
we need europe's firepower and we ask you to insist on this at the next european council because our credibility is at stake in the matter of energy.
i would also like to remind you that this house, thanks also to the contribution of the five star movement, voted four legislative proposals in the waste package.
as i said in my speech, we have supported the sanctions that the european union has decided to impose on russia, including those in the energy sector, and we will continue to do so with the same conviction in the future.
the measures taken yesterday by the government also lead to a liberalization of the permitting processes for the installation of renewable energy, because this is the only obstacle that exists today in italy, but i believe also in many european countries.
these are the permitting processes for renewable energy installations.
our government yesterday decided to renew the taxation of these extra profits of companies that imported and produced different types of energy.
second point on the climate.
this government was born, as i recall in a speech in parliament, as an ecological government.
so it's making climate, the green transition and also the digital transition the cornerstone.
in that sense, i have to say that our minister of the environment has been extraordinary.
but it will also be the case for decisions on energy, public investment, the green transition and digital.
in 2020, the council recommended to poland to enhance the investment climate, in particular by safeguarding judicial independence.
we can make all the progress we want on the internal market, on trade policy, in any other policy field, whatever we want, but, without a joint commitment to our founding values, none of that progress will ever be sustainable for the future.
on the one hand, we can welcome the shift and vision in areas such as digitalisation, artificial intelligence or the environment.
for example, the court found that the €100 billion spent between 2014 and 2020 to combat climate change by the agricultural sector had little impact on the amount of emissions from agriculture.
the rule of law and democracy can only flourish in an environment with quality, free and independent media, and free of manipulative propaganda.
on the one hand, it is the escape of taxation of economic activity to tax havens and, on the other hand, the escape of economic activity due to a worse business environment.
i'm all for, when there's a cheaper, more affordable energy supplier, we buy oil and gas from whoever we want.
mr president, many of the measures proposed, commissioner, can only be welcomed, because they really do allow for energy savings, mainly through greater energy efficiency, but also through greater use of renewable sources.
first, we have to be really honest with our citizens, if we want to reduce our energy dependence on russia quickly, it will cost a lot of money, which will be largely paid by citizens, whether it's higher energy bills or even stopping at gas stations.
renewable energy sources will not allow us to find alternatives to russian oil and gas immediately.
we will continue working closely with the turkish counterparts in order to advance cooperation in areas of common interest such as trade, climate, migration, security or health.
turkey, for example, plays a central role in the eu's refugee policy, and this situation is not sustainable.
the next item on the agenda is the report by thomas waitz, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the eeas's climate change and defence plans (2021/2102 (ini)) (a9-0084/2022).
– mr president, honourable members, we think that the debate today testifies your interest and engagement towards addressing the cross-cutting impact of climate change on security and defence.
that said, energy efficiency and the environmental sustainability will strengthen, not hamper our operational efficiency if done in the right way.
we’re basically talking about reducing co2 emissions by changing the way we cool our houses, how we heat necessary infrastructure, and how we are replacing procurement with products that are less co2-emitting or maybe even co2-neutral.
but okay, if you in principle want to be against everything that has the name ‘climate’ and that points out the real and long—standing problems that we have, that’s where we are.
i commend the european external action service (eeas) for its efforts to address the links between climate change and defence by submitting a roadmap on climate change and defence.
with this roadmap, the eeas proposes to mainstream climate change into eu defence actions, including the common security and defence policy (csdp).
it is important to set voluntary targets for reducing the carbon emissions of military missions and operations and to adopt a more effective pathway to climate neutrality by 2050, without these targets compromising the security of missions and without compromising the operational capabilities of the armed forces.
i call on the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to ensure that environmental protection and the fight against climate change and its effects are properly integrated into the union's external action, and i consider it important to integrate climate security experts into csdp missions and operations.
mr president, the report reflects the great interests in an area which, according to the united states, 'to some extent will determine the future of the world', and concerns critical energy routes, rare earths and countries of geostrategic importance.
madam president, it is the scientific consensus, and therefore the great responsibility of scientists, that humanity cannot afford to slow down in stopping global warming.
so the alternative to a market-based ets is just to remove greenhouse gases by less efficient methods.
we must give clear priority to renewable sources, but at the same time i insist on mandatory exemptions for socially vulnerable and poverty-stricken citizens, who already in slovakia have to pay increasingly higher energy prices.
i put this forward as lead rapporteur in the revision of the energy taxation directive voted on recently in committee and i believe that this approach should be applied to other parts of the fit for 55 package, whether it be emission allowances, carbon taxes or the climate fund.
it is important and right that we make the right choices now to make our mobility climate-neutral.
first, how climate neutral is an electric car really?
second, how can we generate enough electricity from renewable energy by 2035 to make the use of electric batteries truly climate neutral?
or do we not have to import an enormous amount of energy in the form of hydrogen or synthetic, climate-neutral fuels?
it's climate neutral, but it doesn't have any blinds.
because right now, we're really moving on climate legislation.
fortunately, we have a strong green burden-sharing agreement that sets binding climate targets for all countries.
i am particularly proud that we have secured accelerated action towards 2030. because every year counts for the climate, and we can't just wait until 2030 and hope that everyone reaches their goals.
with the agreement we are voting on tomorrow, we can save the atmosphere by 2030 the equivalent of italy's co2 emissions in a whole year.
another victory is that we are now declaring that all countries must be carbon neutral by 2050. because we are on the verge of fundamentally changing our society.
we cannot afford that in the climate crisis.
thank you for helping to pave the way for climate action.
i look forward to voting for the climate and for the future this week.
we remember: global warming threatens our environment, it threatens our economic performance, it threatens our health, and it threatens the living conditions of our future generations.
and at the same time we see a massive lobbying here in the house, by industry, by the agricultural, forestry and chemical industries, which is doing everything possible to prevent a climate and environmentally friendly agriculture here.
we are seeing a massive intervention by the steel and fossil energy industries, which are resisting the expiry of the free certificates.
how do you explain to the public that consumers will have to pay a share of the emissions in future, but that the big polluters will continue to receive free certificates?
whoever forfeits the right ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, making the european union's climate policy dependent on a speculative emissions market has delayed our response.
a market that has done little to help reduce carbon emissions and has been permeable to the industry and fossil fuel lobby.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing how to build a more sustainable social model and economic life.
if we were to take this debate outside the european parliament and place it on a global scale, we could take the european model as a model to follow, the most sustainable model in the world.
so before suggesting such risky models, we need to look more closely at what has happened in the past decades on our continent, to build innovative and sustainable models.
the fact is that this is a very important regulation covering 60% of greenhouse gas emissions and at the same time it supports the commission's proposal for a 40% reduction in emissions covered by this regulation by 2030 compared to 2005, and it also introduces some elements for the debate and discussion with the commission of this regulation.
the climate crisis is here, and we're all about survival.
it's time to stop wasting and start using energy efficiently.
start developing truly green energy that gives people jobs and doesn't destroy nature.
and it will only be if it doesn't destroy the planet and its climate.
our forests and our soils can help us because they're the best carbon sinks in the atmosphere.
living soil helps us to capture carbon best.
that is why we need a separate and binding target for carbon farming.
climate protection is about fairness, responsibility to europeans and europeans.
mr. chairman, we are facing a truly enormous challenge to save the climate, and therefore ourselves.
we're inadvertently enabling a fundamental property of soils and ecosystems, which is to capture and store carbon, to take it out of the atmosphere and to incorporate inside of it amazing processes in ecosystems.
we have the biggest problem with lulucf, and to me, it's a sad signal that we still don't understand the bottom line: that being compatible with the planet and really effectively addressing the climate crisis and the biodiversity crisis is critically dependent on how well we work with nature.
the one-year-long debate in the framework of the conference on the future of europe and citizens’ engagement offer a vision of a europe caring about democracy and the rule of law, competitive internationally, climate-friendly, socially sensitive, providing security and able to build global alliances.
the negotiations have thus begun and the first item on the agenda is the report 'gas storage' presented by mr cristian-silviu buşoi, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (com (2022) 0135 - c9-0126/2022 - 2022/0090 (cod)).
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction.
obviously, the only way we’re going to create long-term energy sovereignty in europe is through renewables.
and we also need to do more to save more energy.
the cheapest energy is the energy you don’t use.
but at the same time, if putin can succeed to disrupt our societies with the weapon he has, which is gas, then we will never get to the situation that we can take our society into a sustainable and renewable future.
we showed our will and readiness to act together and with the gas and hydrogen package and the rest of the fit for 55 package, and with the implementation of the repowereu plan, investing in renewables and energy efficiency and hydrogen will achieve: firstly, security of supply and energy independence; will avoid, secondly, in the future the volatility of prices and the high prices of energy; and thirdly, and the most important for future generations, will reach our climate goals and ambitions.
during my visit to croatia, i could see on the ground that croatia fulfils the conditions in a very sustainable manner.
on 1 june, as you remembered, the commission concluded its convergence report that croatia has achieved the high degree of sustainable economic convergence with the euro area economy and is ready to adopt the euro on 1 january next year.
the government of andrej plenković has made considerable progress towards the eurozone in recent years, in a very difficult environment.
i am proud to say in this house today that, as stated in the report, the introduction of the euro in croatia as of 1 january 2023 is supported; it is noted that croatia meets all the criteria for the introduction of the euro as a result of ambitious, determined, credible and sustainable efforts of the croatian government and the croatian people.
now we will have, after your decision and the council decision, a common commitment on the changeover, which will be very important, especially in this environment of high inflation, and then croatia will continue on its path of reforms and investment, also supported by next generation eu.
my friends, i have spoken several times in this house about the need to protect the environment.
and now, of course, we must think about how to tackle inflation and energy prices, but i would really like to see a long-term solution for affordable housing to ensure that nobody is left behind and that young people have the opportunity that older generations, including my generation, have taken for granted.
but new energy pricing and security challenges from the war in ukraine force us to look at the whole thing from a slightly different perspective.
failure to include nuclear and gas could undermine our energy security, create pressure for further price increases and deepen poverty.
i know that they are not green energy sources, but we need them in the transition.
as for nuclear, take germany, which recently gave up nuclear power and now has to go back to coal, which probably won't speed up the reduction in emissions.
mr president, the role of the green taxonomy was to make a very clear, unambiguous and precise list of green, renewable and sustainable technologies.
there's a lot of interest in investing in these technologies, and there's a lot of need to invest in these technologies, because they define our path to saving the climate.
as the european parliament reiterates its support for serbia’s eu membership, it also recalls that a credible enlargement perspective requires political will, sustainable efforts and irreversible reforms in all areas, particularly those linked to the rule of law, as well as unwavering commitment to european standards and values.
this regards improving electoral conditions, fight against corruption and organised crime, improving media environment, and repeated calls for cross—party consensus on eu—related reforms for ensuring the country’s progress on its eu path.
what do we do about the energy crisis?
so we are, of course, reflecting together with you, with our member states, on how to bring this new energy and new impetus into the whole process.
one, on energy related issues.
we of course are heading towards a very difficult period – i think we see it every day – and therefore we are working around the clock to make sure that on 20 july we will adopt the set of measures which would constitute a european emergency plan for any eventualities which could meet us in this very difficult energy landscape.
if a person says that he does not want a third world war with the russian federation or he does not want an energy collapse in europe, he is automatically labeled as an extremist who needs to be put in a box.
while large energy companies get rich and make windfall profits, more and more people fall into energy poverty.
the european commission's proposal to introduce this tax can therefore help raise the money needed to finance the fight against the energy crisis, but above all it can at least partially offset high energy prices.
but then this tax should not only apply to energy companies, but we should also impose it on companies that have made profits during the coronavirus pandemic, for example, and on large pharmaceutical companies, and on digital giants, especially the so-called gafam five.
but is the tax on increased energy companies necessary in all?
people don't care what form we take to get money from the increased profits of the energy sector, but they expect us to do it now.
what i am, however, concerned about is a lack of coherence with other legislation, and in particular the renewable energy directive, and the way it treats woody biomass.
we cannot fight deforestation and at the same time ask for increasing wood harvest and burning of wood, relieve the criteria of sustainability and allowing massive subsidies and distortion of market.
we are losing forest carbon sinks, forest resilience and biodiversity, all because we are putting too much pressure on our forests and we might be proposing to push even more.
the critical condition for sustainable forest management, however, is based upon the premise that we also have to allow the forest to rest, grow and adapt.
please keep this in your mind during the crucial votes this week and stop burning trees for energy.
the union must give our farmers all the tools they need to continue producing sufficient, sustainable and quality food and not set unrealizable targets at the expense of producers and consumers.
the most important thing is a strong climate policy, but we also have to deal with climate change.
for spain, portugal and other countries in the south, this is a terrible threat, made worse by climate change.
that is why greener cities, emergency aid from the eu, better climate adaptation are important.
but the fact is that only reduced emissions can save our future generations, as well as our vulnerable and fragile and elderly today.
i worry when more and more right-wing politicians talk about pausing climate change and postponing drastic action for the future - this despite the fact that study after study shows how serious the situation is and that we actually also have more fruits to reap from changing it faster.
no, instead we need to increase our climate ambitions, accelerate renewables and become fossil-free.
the extreme weather of spring and summer can only be interpreted in one way: eu climate policy must move faster.
drought, fire, climate change.
mr. chairman, the climate crisis is turning into a climate catastrophe.
and so in addition to reducing emissions, we need to adapt.
mr president, the reform of the directive should have been about reforming the use of biomass for energy purposes, so that we do not destroy our forests in a futile attempt to save the climate by burning wood.
it was necessary to limit the subsidisation of wood burning and to prohibit the inclusion of wood burning in renewable energy sources.
the red line that the reform has taken, a well thought-out reform for renewable energy, which applies a number of good steps for wind, solar, geothermal, but opens the way for a european biomassass, and i do not intend to support it.
in order to combat climate change, the proposers of the directive propose to increase the share of renewable energy sources (res) in eu energy consumption to 45%.
environmental protection, including the fight against climate change, must also be done effectively.
because there's a risk that we're spending a lot of money on these goals and we're not stopping climate change.
the massive increase in energy prices and the shortage of electricity, gas and oil are putting a huge strain on households and businesses.
the current energy crisis is threatening livelihoods across europe.
we must increase the supply of energy, and to do this we must use all available sources of energy in the short term.
i have been reading green papers and commission action programmes for over 20 years, and i have been wondering why, for example, the european demand for energy should be concentrated.
it is not enough to go to qatar, as the german energy minister did, and then turn around and come back without a supply contract, because it is not ideologically acceptable to sign a 20-year supply contract.
that platform is made up more by finance than energy operators.
madam president, commissioner, i am afraid that all the crises and problems we have experienced in recent years may be nothing compared to what the energy crisis may cause.
if we do nothing, in some countries, household energy bills can reach completely absurdly drastic numbers, a few percent of gdp.
in addition to measures such as the price stability of various energy sources or, where appropriate, the limitation of the income of some energy companies producing electricity at low production costs, which must be temporary, we need other measures.
and they don't care if we do it by taxing the excess profits of the energy companies or by subsidizing the energy prices of these companies.
some of the measures proposed by commission president ursula von der leyen to address the energy price crisis are moving in the right direction, coming too late.
the billions of euros that some big companies have made speculating on energy prices must be put into the budgets of households and businesses that are in trouble.
the measures proposed do not seem to me to be sufficient in this respect, and even the energy savings recommended for people already living on the poverty line seem absurd, as if we were recommending that the hungry eat even less.
otherwise, we, all of us, will pay a very high price, not just in terms of our unity and our values, but in terms of our security and literally our energy bills.
moreover, we cannot go from energy dependence on russia to raw material dependence on china.
if we want to maintain our independence, energy security and self-sufficiency, we must use all the resources available in our territory.
the commission should continue to work on the list of strategic raw materials and continue to build various alliances with partners and all stakeholders in the field, namely the battery alliance and the other alliances mentioned, which are being built in the field of raw materials or also the use of solar energy and hydrogen.
after the pandemic, after the war in ukraine, there's a huge energy crisis that rightly raises hopelessness and fear.
there are thousands and thousands of tons of toxic waste dumps all around, contaminating entire territories.
when it's cold in the huts, the roma burn whatever they can get their hands on, including toxic waste from landfills.
investing in roma settlements has become so unpopular in our region that we prefer to let money from european funds go to waste.
housing, education, the environment, employment must be a priority, not only for the eu, but above all for the governments of the nation states, and therefore also for the government of the slovak republic.
recent assessments suggest that the stock of blue whiting is not overfished and that it remains above the maximum sustainable yield.
we all can help, also in this house, by sending a strong signal with our resolution on the cites scope, but also by supporting a strong environmental crime directive.
if we don't change the impact of global warming, the climate change that we're already seeing, some parts of the world will literally dry up.
the only weapon is to spread fear, blackmail everyone, massacre civilians, burn territory, manipulate energy prices and threaten critical infrastructure in the european union.
the occupation and attempted violent takeover and illegal appropriation of another's territory are the most flagrant examples of the violation of the legal system on which the european and world order is based, and the consequences are felt by all of us - through the speculative prices of energy and the intentions of those who want to exploit war for other interests.
sure, the conflict in ukraine is exacerbating the energy crisis.
you all mentioned war on our continent, and rightly pointed out the serious concerns of the people in europe over high inflation, high energy prices, overall social cohesion, and over the future of our businesses and industry.
almost all of you honourable members highlighted how important the unity and solidarity are to deal with current energy prices and high inflation.
but we all know that more is needed and therefore, we are going to skim off the exceptional profits of the energy companies to support vulnerable citizens and businesses.
we will complement it with our negotiations with trusted partners, such as, for example, norway, to dampen the price we pay for energy.
and we are going to use much more our strong market power as a big economy and very important energy importer.
we want to make sure that we will take advantage of our big internal market and we will strengthen our energy platform to avoid a situation where member states are competing with each other, but rather we would work with them to support a common approach.
we see it as another step not only to develop the new post-ttf price benchmark, but also to structurally reform our electricity market as called for by mr jadot or ms van brempt, and to do it in a way that will not only decouple gas from its unproportional impact on electricity price, but to forge a new framework which will correspond to our goals to be a climate—neutral continent by 2050. on top of this, we are working on the adaptation of a temporary state aid framework to the current energy situation.
i want to assure you that we hear very loud and clear your calls to look for additional ways on how to tackle high inflation, reduce energy prices and preserve our competitiveness and, most importantly, for our citizens to uphold social standards in europe.
we will continue to provide military assistance to the ukrainian government to ensure that recent military gains are sustainable in the long run.
– mr president, honourable members, commissioner, the issue of a healthy information ecosystem in europe, free from intentional and concerted attempts to distort it, is always an important topic.
they do that by combining pro-kremlin narratives with content on the divisive subjects that fringe movements in europe focus on: migration, anti-vaccine sentiment and climate change scepticism, for instance.
i want to repeat again that any interference in our political and democratic processes is unacceptable, particularly in the current geopolitical climate and also in the run-up to the 2024 european parliament elections.
i think the vast majority of all of us feel very strongly that we need to say loudly no to war propaganda and disinformation, to say no to bullies blackmailing households, to those who use energy as a gunshot.
as seen by our recent reports on eu disinfolab and from facebook, by impersonating european media outlets using proxies online and using other manipulative behaviour, russia is targeting now europeans directly with apocalyptic messages about impending the winter without heating and accusing eu sanctions of growing inflation and energy bills.
i also call today for the process of approving slovakia's application to be expedited and expedited so that the unexpended funds can be used to combat expensive energy.
let the current energy crisis be a lesson to us, so that we do not compromise our values and principles any further and never again allow such dependence on undemocratic and totalitarian regimes, which is always a threat.
mr president, today the parliament endorsed the council’s measures to tackle rising energy prices and the misery they are causing so many households.
these measures are a step in the right direction, but we all know that much more is needed to tackle this crisis while decarbonising our energy system and eliminating energy poverty.
the broken energy market needs to be reformed so that the price we pay for energy reflects the real price of production.
we need more effective price caps so that energy companies can no longer exploit this crisis at the expense of workers and families.
we need public control of an energy system that has people’s basic right to energy at its core.
the european union, as a space policy actor that wants to be a leader, must also put more pressure on other states to agree to cooperate in the use of space and to adopt a more conservative and sustainable stance.
this debate, i am sorry to say, risks making european farmers or some of us look like those who have no environmental sensitivity, when in fact it is quite the opposite in view of the commitment and the results achieved by european farmers and their full willingness to share a pragmatic strategy where the environment can be protected alongside productivity.
because we remember that no environmentally sustainable outcome can be achieved if we weaken our production system.
we must ensure that there is a principle of reciprocity, otherwise it means that the wealthier european consumers will be able to afford to buy more expensive european products at their production costs, while the less wealthy will be diverted to buying less expensive but also less safe and less sustainable imported products.
i would therefore ask those who do not wish to speak further on the motions for resolutions on russia's escalation of its war of aggression against ukraine, on the outcome of the commission's review of the 15-point action plan on trade and sustainable development and on 'new impetus for a strengthened maritime policy and the conservation of biodiversity', to please understand and point out that it is possible to put these explanations of vote in writing.
and the points on the oral questions on un climate change conference 2022 in sharm el-sheikh, egypt and the council and commission statements on impact of the russian invasion of ukraine on migration flows to the eu will be taken only by the commission.
i will vote against because i think that is the wrong way to fight greenhouse gas emissions.
in my view, a much better solution would be for the state to over-priced the negative externalities (greenhouse gas emissions) and for the market to provide the rest (production and purchase of alternative-powered cars, their charging, production of that charging ...).
citizens) would be better able to decide whether electric cars are a more effective tool to combat greenhouse gas emissions than working from home, cycling, bicycling, or, for example, moving more flexibly from one place to another.
mr president, commissioner, we are talking about stopping the rise in energy bills, with social and economic consequences, but now, when we are talking, in many member states, bills are being adjusted, bills are being raised, 10 times the cost of energy.
i come from a meeting with sme connect, in my capacity as vice president of the sme intergroup, and the concrete question from entrepreneurs in germany, in austria, where they attended, in slovakia, is how do we lower energy bills?
an addiction that's destroying the climate, and an addiction that's put all the guns in the hands of the biggest drug dealer in the world, putin.
but we can best get rid of dependence together, and that is why i am lacking a stronger initiative from the commission, stronger action from the commission to help both citizens and businesses to develop green energy and energy efficiency better.
excess profit tax cannot be at national level only, as energy trades take place at pan-european level.
of course, we know that we are living through a multiple crisis – a geopolitical, energy, inflation crisis – with an impact on the real economy and with some risk of financial spillovers.
as you know, the commission will adopt later today a new energy package.
we know that the european family is spending 20% of their income on food and 15% of their income on energy, so 35%, but this is an average.
of course, we have several countries and several low—income households where food and energy are near to 50% of family expenditure.
it is connected to energy for the legal reasons that you know very well, but this doesn’t mean that member states could not go further to address these issues.
so our two main commitments, first, on the clean energy transition, and second, on implementing reforms and investments of next generation eu are not only important because we have to implement what we decide, but they are also important if we want to avoid a difficult situation for the union in terms of global competitiveness.
the new measures proposed by the european commission to combat high energy prices are a step in the right direction, but again they will not contribute to an immediate reduction in advance payments and bills for gas or electricity in slovakia.
we must ban speculation in the energy market and introduce taxation systems for those who have taken advantage of this context.
our initiatives also proposed energy regulation, the unbundling of electricity and gas prices, dynamic capping of gas prices and the reform of energy markets in europe.
furthermore, a thorough reform of energy markets is needed to reduce our dependence on russia and fossil fuels in general.
furthermore, a thorough reform of energy markets is needed to reduce our dependence on russia and fossil fuels in general.
in implementing a windfall tax, no matter how structured, care must be taken not to unbalance markets in the medium term, even as it remains impossible to predict when the energy crisis will end.
solidarity levies on windfall profits should be applied in the sectors where they occur, in particular in the energy, pharmaceutical and banking sectors, and an efficient redistribution of resources with an effective price-reducing impact on the most vulnerable households and businesses should be ensured.
the covid-19 pandemic, additional sources of stress for our citizens, inflation, falling standards, the war in ukraine, the threat of nuclear war, climate change, especially among young people, cyberbullying - inter-class violence... all of this has a socioeconomic background.
now people are pressured by the cost of energy, the cost of living.
mr president, in tackling today's energy and inflation crises, savings in the union budget should not be taboo either.
and we had a first meeting of stress tests in our energy sector with member states’ security experts, and there was unanimous support from our security experts to continue working together to investigate the real causes of these incidents.
the european union, complementing nato, should long ago take decisive action to increase its capability to prevent hybrid threats in areas such as state terrorism, cyberattacks and energy security.
and this is something that is particularly relevant in the area of energy and pipelines.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
these are special times from a climate and energy perspective.
the decisions to be taken at cop27 will shape climate and energy policies and have an impact on all of us.
with worrying peaks of energy poverty affecting vulnerable families, small businesses and local authorities all over the eu, we must act urgently.
making our energy system independent of russian fossil fuels and fossil fuels in general is the big challenge.
it is vital that fit for 55 is adopted as a unit in order to show the strong leadership and commitment of the eu and its member states to ambitiously contribute to closing the gap necessary to limit global warming.
mr. president, the climate crisis affects all of us.
it's the basis of the solution not just for saving the climate, it's the basis of the solution for high inflation through green energy, it's the basis of the solution for protecting biodiversity through using nature as a solution, whether it's in capture emissions or adaptation to climate change.
mr president, even in the context of the current dramatic situation, we must continue to support our ambitious climate goals.
the european union must remain the world leader in reducing emissions.
we need concrete action to address the climate emergency and prevent unnecessary hundreds of thousands of deaths from climate change, from urgently reducing greenhouse gas emissions, increasing resilience and adapting populations to drastic climate change, to committing to sustainable climate finance in developing countries.
if we are serious about climate, we must also prevent emissions exports and trade with countries that do not meet the strict criteria we have set for ourselves in our union.
the consequences of the european energy crisis must also be reduced in the western balkans, and joint energy cooperation projects must therefore be implemented as soon as possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, do you want to revive europe's energy policy?
first of all, those counterproductive energy sanctions against russia must be lifted.
you know, this energy crisis is not the result of the world running out of energy.
the inclusion of repower in the national recovery plans will allow slovakia and other member states to draw even more european money for projects related to increasing the security of their energy supply and the share of renewable energy in energy production.
although this will certainly contribute to a lower dependence on fossil fuel imports not only from russia but also in general in the five to ten year perspective, it will not help slovakia and its economy much in the coming year, which will be crucial for the survival of dozens of companies in the industrial, energy and transport sectors.
according to experts, europe will lack around 30 billion cubic metres of russian gas next year and only the measures from the repower programme focusing on the development of renewable sources and energy efficiency improvements for 2023 will certainly not be enough to make up for this deficit.
although the proposal has its problems, such as giving priority to support for small and micro enterprises, although this time support for medium and large enterprises could be more effective in meeting the objective of reducing dependence on russian energy and accelerating the green transition, i am voting in favour of it.
the underlying idea is what i have long supported the shift of resources from digitalisation and the various existing european funds to solutions to the energy crisis, where the likelihood of achieving results is higher than for funds from which the funds are being shifted.
and last week the croatian government also signed the extension of this mechanism, not a year-by-year, but an 18-month extension automatically renewable until we have this agreement on the pact.
one of the fastest growing and most innovative cultural industries in recent years has been the video game ecosystem.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the protection of the environment and the promotion of sustainable development.
the report also states that video games are an important ecosystem for the european union, both economically and culturally.
the increase in energy and food prices affects the most vulnerable, the poorest and the people in the least developed regions.
and since then, the european union has been facing an unprecedented increase in sabotage operations on its critical infrastructure – from the energy sector to transport services – and experiencing an increasing number of hybrid attacks on its public institutions.
and in the meantime, the climate crisis has been burning and flooding our continent from greece to portugal, sweden to italy.
mr president, commissioner, the resilience of europe's critical infrastructure needs to be strengthened in terms of both cybersecurity and the physical environment.
it is a good step that in addition to energy and transport infrastructure, the legislation now to be adopted includes a total of eleven very critical sectors, including digital infrastructure, banking, drinking water, health, food.
data hijacking and energy attack can lead to disaster for our societies.
mr president, commissioner johansson, this parliament welcomes this revision of the directive on the reinforcement of critical infrastructure and critical entities, which is part of the reinforcement of the security of europeans against hybrid attacks, dramatically brought to light by putin's war against ukraine, and which extends the security of europeans beyond energy and transport to other sectors affected, such as banking, such as digital infrastructures and, of course, such as food supply and, above all, health and public health data.
madam president, after 70 years of the european union's imperfect foreign policy, we have come to the conclusion we have come to, namely that there is a war in europe, there is a crisis, a food crisis, an energy crisis.
what we're experiencing today may be nothing compared to the movement of hundreds of millions of climate refugees in the middle of this century.
as i have already stressed, both improved cooperation with third countries and progress on the negotiations on the migration and asylum pact remain the only sustainable way to achieve a better and more robust migration and asylum system that will serve all member states well.
this requires a positive political environment, which will allow our institutions to move forward together.
written statements (rule 171)
madam president, i appreciate the commission's efforts to come up with proposals to reduce the high energy prices that many businesses and households cannot afford.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the council and the commission on the global biodiversity framework after 2020 and the un convention on biological diversity cop15 (2022/2959 ((rsp)).
we also need to remove, redirect or repurpose environmentally harmful subsidies and incentives, and we need to increase positive incentives and align all financial flows with biodiversity objectives.
at cop11, the parties agreed on doubling biodiversity—related international financial resource flows to developing countries.
we should avoid a situation, as for climate, where perceived lack of financing becomes a political stumbling block for full implementation.
our biodiversity life on earth is in danger.
we are part of that biodiversity.
so we must stop biodiversity loss and restore nature.
the negotiations in montreal are our chance to adopt a framework that credibly addresses biodiversity crisis.
they confirm the strong and continued interest of this assembly in the protection of biodiversity and the desire for the eu to play a leading role at the un biodiversity conference.
please allow me to conclude by reaffirming the presidency’s commitment to do its utmost to defend the eu’s ambitions in canada to adopt an ambitious, comprehensive and transformative post-2020 global biodiversity framework that includes the long-term 2050 goals, 2030 intermediate outcomes and action-oriented 2030 targets, to effectively and simultaneously address the direct and indirect drivers of biodiversity loss.
i believe that the 15th un conference on biodiversity will be a paradigm-shifting conference.
world leaders will come together to agree on the global protection of our biodiversity.
the ep called for an ambitious, comprehensive and transformative post-2020 global biodiversity framework, including long-term 2050 targets, intermediate outcomes and action-oriented 2030 targets, that effectively and simultaneously addresses both direct and indirect drivers of biodiversity decline.
i support the creation of a coalition of stakeholders, both from the private and public sectors, to achieve the global framework for biodiversity post-2020.
in this regard, i underline the usefulness of the 'solution agenda' developed under the paris agreement for developing a positive agenda for all stakeholders with an interest in the united nations framework convention on climate change and call for the inclusion of similar actions in the post-2020 biodiversity framework.
i have no understanding for such ambition, mainly because of the enormous importance of these species for ecosystems and biodiversity, as well as for the great support of the public.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rural areas are not left to the detriment of the environment.
the rural areas must be supported, they must be able to keep pace with the climate change, social and economic challenges.
madam president, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work and, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware of the importance of rural areas, whether we are talking about food security, combating climate change or tourism.
we can offer incentives to people who choose to live in the rural world; promote sustainable tourism that shows their ways of life; value a sustainable way of life that is respectful of our planet.
nature is not the enemy of the countryside, but its ally in the fight against climate change and the decline of species wealth.
madam president, we are in the midst of a major energy crisis caused mainly, but not only, by the russian aggression in ukraine, and we must all the more accelerate the transformation of our energy sector.
in other words, it is about strengthening our strategic autonomy, that is, energy self-sufficiency, and thus mainly reducing our dependence on third countries, whether it be russia or qatar or azerbaijan.
the main response is the development of renewable energy, which is becoming the cheapest source of energy, and the massive investment in its use.
solar panels, wind turbines, but also nuclear fusion, together with biogas and green hydrogen, are the only energy sources we will have to rely on in the future if we do not want to become dependent on third countries and fossil fuels.
madam president, renewable energy sources are indeed key to combating climate change, reducing energy prices and ensuring a continuous supply of energy to the european union and ultimately to liberating ourselves from the dictates of fossil fuels.
however, it should be borne in mind that the production of renewable energy can and does damage protected areas and therefore conflicts with nature conservation, and therefore its production and development should be a priori focused on areas where such conflicts do not occur.
i am particularly critical of this in relation to hydro and biomass energy production, where too much benevolence in pursuing a public interest overriding necessarily leads to the damage of rivers and the disappearance of precious forest areas.
we have had enough of these protected forests being cut down and live rivers being cemented to understand that further destruction of the natural environment is simply unacceptable.
it's good that you're putting so much energy into this region.
the russian invasion of ukraine and the changes in the current geopolitical situation have made us realise that the european union's strategic interest is a stable and secure environment in its immediate neighbourhood, regardless of which of these countries will or will not eventually become a member state of the european union.
energy prices, food prices, all of those are affecting many children in europe.
if you add the energy crisis, the war in ukraine, the food crisis, covid-19, inflation -- never before have so many families been impoverished so fast.
the americans told us to accept the energy sanctions.
we had the slovenian prime minister here yesterday, a former very successful energy trader, who made it clear to us that a large part of energy prices is due to speculation.
we must finally reform the food and energy prices so that they are not left to speculation!
it is time for quick and urgent solutions, which provide answers and support for consumers, households and businesses, starting with the fight against the increase in energy prices, on which we hope to see decisions already at the next european council to stop speculation.
the inhumane rise in food and energy prices is pushing low- and middle-income people into poverty and social exclusion.
it is a pity that even at the level of the european union there is no solidarity and no political will to agree on solutions in the energy field.
yesterday we saw the energy ministers fail to agree on a price increase for gas.
but the energy crisis is also a european failure.
the main reason is the russian aggression in ukraine and the consequences of this russian aggression on prices, energy, food, inflation.
second is energy.
rising inflation, rising energy prices and eroding purchasing power are current challenges that we need to address immediately with concrete measures that have an immediate positive impact on citizens' lives.
one step is to stop the speculation in the energy market, identified by the experts in the field, and tax those who made huge profits.
my personal and friendly advice to honourable members would be to, instead of attacking the council as the institution, rather focus the energy on reaching out towards national parliaments, as these are the bodies that national governments are accountable to.
this was also called for in this commission’s political guidelines from july 2019. policy fields that would benefit from this change are energy, taxation, or some aspects of the common foreign and security policy such as sanctions and human rights.
madam president, as a result of the current energy crisis and high inflation, the who predicts that more than 120,000 people could lose their lives in europe this winter.
it is clear that the current long-term budget is not enough and we need a more structured approach to better support our households and our businesses facing challenges such as this energy crisis or the crisis caused by the coronavirus pandemic.
the eu is facing a number of challenges today that were not anticipated when the budget was adopted in 2020 (for example, the war in ukraine, high energy prices and high inflation).