but civilian elements are also critical to achieve sustainable peace in these turbulent times, when there is a threat that some countries might be more willing to challenge international law and order.
if you do not understand that gas is not only a climate policy problem, but also a security policy problem, you have not done your homework.
in the medium or long term, we will have to phase out gas - not just for climate policy reasons, but also for security reasons.
the fact that orbán is now building a nuclear power station in paks ii with russian money and technology - which is on an earthquake line - is not only an environmental problem, but also a security problem.
the european union must strengthen not only its military but also its energy, raw materials and technological sovereignty.
it also includes areas such as health, social security, environmental protection.
two weeks ago, we have launched a eur 3.2 billion investment package to support 21 transport, digital, climate and energy connectivity projects in the western balkans.
mr president, the imperialist war in ukraine is inextricably linked to the energy rivalries of the monopolies.
energy efficiency for the people was already at a record high before the war, thanks to the european union and the greek governments' strategy for the green transition, the liberalisation of energy, the emissions trading.
the european union has also been able to make a significant contribution to the development of the energy sector in the community.
the acceleration of the decoupling from russian natural gas and the choice of liquefied natural gas routes from the united states, which promote the profitability of greek shipowners and the plans for the geostrategic upgrading of the greek bourgeoisie as a gateway to the western balkans and european markets, portend for the people a lasting energy poverty and involvement in great risks.
the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's energy policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's energy policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies.
the current energy price crisis, exacerbated by the russian invasion of ukraine, poses two major challenges.
the second aspect is the protection of consumers, those who are at immediate risk of energy poverty, but also the middle class and businesses, small and mediumsized enterprises, energy-intensive sectors such as ceramics and cement, to name just a few, but also agriculture and fisheries, which are already suffering the consequences of energy prices.
the only way to achieve strategic autonomy, and in this context energy autonomy, in the european union is to achieve a green transition.
the long-term solution, of course, is simply to switch to renewable energy.
we need to invest in new technologies, in solar, wind, water technologies, and where necessary and there is social consensus, also a debate on the role of nuclear energy.
but we must not forget all those who have been affected by the energy drain.
we need to help all of these immediately and effectively, while also systematically addressing the issue of energy poverty, which will not disappear with the green transition.
in this context, i would particularly highlight access to environmental migration.
environmental and climate security are also essential elements of human security today, because of the war in ukraine, and therefore strengthening democratisation and transparency in environmental matters is also our contribution to respect for human rights.
renewable energy, the european green deal are our goals.
in addition, i am asking the european commission to prepare - as soon as possible so that we can build a common market, so that we have security of supply and lower energy tariffs - lists of missing gas storage facilities, missing lng terminals, interconnectors between countries.
(speech begins with the microphone off) ... the ten-t must provide infrastructure that will provide sufficient amounts of energy for all european consumers, both households, which are particularly vulnerable in the circumstances, and industry.
in doing so, we must ensure that this energy is affordable for industry and accessible to households.
these must be geared towards achieving the climate objectives set as well as to ensuring a reliable supply.
but in this context, we cannot allow the so-called interconnections that we need today in the short term to ensure energy security to become either an excuse or an excuse for not meeting the climate and sustainability goals we have set ourselves.
this means that these projects, which are just beginning to emerge, must be technically scaled up with a view to adapting them to new, more environmentally friendly sources of energy.
the areas where ai can improve our lives are vast, from combating climate change and faster and more accurate diagnoses in medicine, to improving labor standards and accelerating innovation.
the burden of all these costs will be borne by european passengers, employees of the airline industry and related activities, and of course the environment.
this will increase co2 emissions and air pollution.
the key solution in aviation is therefore a green transition or transition, and we need to adopt a legislative framework at european level as soon as possible, and to do so, we also need to ensure sufficient financial resources to make the transition with the appropriate social dimension, which will be solidarity-based and fair, and which will ensure the development of sustainable aviation fuels and carbon-free aviation technologies.
mr president, dependency on russian energy has taught us above all that we need a single and well-functioning european energy market that is not dependent on a single supplier.
therefore, as foreseen in repowereu, we need measures to diversify our energy sources.
another measure is to speed up the transition to renewable sources, which is the only long-term measure for the european union's energy self-sufficiency.
this means accelerating investment in new renewable sources, investment in energy efficiency and, above all, the creation - and this is our task, ladies and gentlemen - of a legislative and regulatory framework that will enable the eu to become carbon neutral and energy independent.
the third set of measures is the need for systemic solutions to address energy poverty, where we need to protect our people from price shocks.
why are the aviation ets and the corsia international emissions trading scheme important?
we have a compromise proposal on the table for a revision of the directive, which enjoys broad support in the committee on the environment and is an incentive for a fair green transition.
it is a comprehensive package of measures: expanding the geographical scope, speeding up the abolition of free allowances, reducing emissions and an additional 35 billion from the ets to decarbonise the sector.
in a time of unpredictable energy security, the particular challenge is to have sufficient supply and affordability of sustainable aviation fuels to directly decarbonise the sector effectively, and we therefore envisage incentives to develop this market and temporarily cover the price gap to fossil kerosene.
a particular problem is the fact that only one third of the emissions are co2 emissions.
two thirds of emissions are non-carbon emissions.
i expect the european union and its member states to engage in active climate diplomacy, both bilaterally and multilaterally, within the international civil aviation organisation, where they should seek to strengthen the provisions of corsie, an ambitious long-term plan to reduce global emissions and broad international cooperation.
we will have one round of political group speakers on the fit for 55 package concerning the reports by mr liese on the revision of the eu emissions trading system, mr casa and ms de lange on the social climate fund, and mr chahim on the carbon border adjustment mechanism.
what is ahead of us is the biggest piece of climate legislation that we have ever had.
but the future is for renewables and energy efficiency and clean technologies, and that’s why we are doing the right thing to take into account the crisis but also taking care of our planet and the future of our children and grandchildren.
mr chahim on the carbon border adjustment mechanism?
– madam president, dear colleagues, the substance of today’s vote – i think you all are aware – is to try to give an answer to the biggest challenge of our generation and not allow ourselves to play one crisis against the other, with the war, as the climate thing cannot wait.
madam president, two weeks ago my group of socialists and democrats voted against a text which did not respond to the needs of climate change.
that we cannot fight climate change if we are not united, if we do not listen to each other, if we are not able to make these climate ambitions bearing the weight of a large majority and not a small minority, which would have been irresponsible.
the package objective 55 is the necessary response in a climate emergency, not only for this parliament to be able to push this proposal forward, but to be responsible to a planet that cannot wait any longer.
it was a failure for the climate and it was a failure for this institution.
and in two weeks - in two weeks only - we have managed to turn the tide and find the compromises that will allow us, i hope, to vote overwhelmingly for the biggest climate package ever voted in europe.
first, with a carbon market reform that will allow us to have the highest price in the world, by far, far, and we're at that meeting.
then with a world first: a border carbon tax, a border carbon adjustment mechanism, and also a social climate fund that allows us to make the transition, but to make it fair.
i would remind you of what peter liese said just now, we also took account of the exceptional situation we are in, with energy prices already very high for our citizens and for our companies.
we have worked with a european cooperation method, the only one that allows us to win both as an institution and for the climate.
i therefore urge you to vote massively for this result, it is a good result for parliament, a good result for the climate.
that is also why we as a parliament, already two years ago, called for a climate emergency – because of that reality out there.
but let’s see, and let’s also use this as a stepping stone to do more for the climate, because we have to – not only for the climate, also for the new generation, also for the businesses.
everyone is talking about business, but the only way to give certainty to the business is to address climate change wholeheartedly.
and then the last point, and this is why we are happy with the current deal – finally, we have a social climate fund on the table as well, because really the hardest hit by climate are the poorest in our society.
there is no climate justice without social justice and that all together brings the greens on board in this package.
it’s a start to addressing the climate emergency that we declared together.
we adopted with a huge majority the biggest climate law ever.
we are doing a big step for the climate, but also protecting jobs.
– madam president, according to rule 59(4) of the rules of procedure, i would like to request that this file be referred back to the joint employment and environment committee for interinstitutional negotiations according to rules 60 and 74 of the rules of procedure.
once again, thank you, colleagues, now we finally have a social climate fund.
the ramifications are hitting everyone now of russia’s aggression against ukraine, in terms of energy crisis, in terms of spike of the prices of the raw materials, construction materials, food, even risking famine, especially in the eastern part of africa, but elsewhere globally too, and putting inflationary pressures on our own member states.
no one is untouched by the magnitude of this first of all energy crisis, but even more deeper, by the rise of the prices of food.
in order to be able to do that and still be able to organise a secure supply of energy to our economies and to our households, we need to organise ourselves in terms of energy grids in the european union, and that means investments in gas pipelines, in oil pipelines, in liquefied natural gas terminals.
that means that our geostrategic position is that we are one of the energy hubs – and the energy map of europe is something we shall try to foster and strengthen in the years which are ahead of us.
we have the lowest number of unemployed people in croatia in the last 30 years, only 103 000. we have the biggest employment in croatia in the last 20 years, and we shall try to continue intervening, as i said many times, whether it was covid or now the energy crisis, to keep the economic and social standard of our citizens, because this is clearly a key priority, which we will make sure happens because of synergy of using the european and croatian sources.
but even more when i look at the health crises, security crises, political crises, but also energy and existential crises for many of our citizens who without the role of the state, and without the concerted action, joint action through the principle of solidarity of the european union, would not look for a better future as we can look at it today.
energy dependency and disruption in production have resulted in rising prices, but some have gone sky high purely out of greed.
we know that energy security is the main topic of the day for many, many reasons.
russia has weaponised energy and we have seen further gas disruptions announced in recent days.
as you know, last month the college of commissioners adopted the creation of an energy platform task force in dg—ener, and i also want to thank honourable member buşoi for referring to it.
finally, member states have reiterated their commitment to the ‘energy efficiency first’ principle.
and finally, the eastern partnership countries involved, the energy community countries, especially ukraine we want this.
the regulation we are adopting today is part of a wider strategy, a more comprehensive framework, the strategy which europe, as the first continent in the world, has adopted to radically change its energy supply model from fossil fuels to renewable energy.
now, i want to say that with this regulation we are preparing to give european citizens, european industry, european mobility, the security of being able to face the cold season that lies ahead and thus be able to be assured that there will be continuity of supply and continuity of the possibility of having recourse to the energy needs.
i am interested in saying that this measure, although sectoral, contains the signs, the elements, i would say the traces of what our design is, which is to build a common energy policy and to achieve the energy union.
the principle of energy efficiency, which is also being called for at this crucial moment in the quest for a greener europe.
this is one of the key measures to ensure energy security, or the supply of gas to european consumers.
we are faced with a set of measures of a temporary nature, which are primarily a response to the brutal russian aggression against ukraine and the related russian energy blackmail.
successful gas storage will ensure the smooth functioning of the single energy market and ensure the necessary solidarity between member states.
it is clear, also from past experience, that only together as the eu can we prevent serious disruptions in the energy market.
it is also important to establish a legal and technical framework for static gas storage and to prevent energy nationalism, which would escalate the energy crisis into a political crisis and divisions within the eu.
on the contrary, it establishes a framework for energy security that will enable a successful green transition even in a challenging geopolitical environment.
but it cannot continue to operate in a sustainable way, so it needs to be reassessed.
values solidarity between generations is needed to achieve a more sustainable way of life.
and the very basis of resilience and sustainability is actually caring.
without dedication to care and, in particular, to the public good and public investment in care, there will be no sustainability.
europe is moving towards a historic green transition, but we must take into account the geopolitical turbulence and uncertainty about our energy supply that putin is provoking by the war in ukraine.
the taxonomy is a guide to investments to help europe on its way to its climate goals and becoming climate neutral by 2050. at present, the energy mix in europe varies from one member state to another.
some countries are still heavy users of coal, while others are already moving towards renewable energy.
to help member states in their transition to climate neutrality, the european commission proposes to include gas and nuclear energy in the taxonomy as part of the transition to renewable energy sources.
the conditions are strict and limited in time, it is clearly not a wild card for gas and nuclear energy.
the eu taxonomy is a tool that will provide more transparency and can be used by economic operators on a voluntary basis, it does not oblige member states to make one or the other investment, because the energy mix remains a national competence.
the european commission proposes to include nuclear energy and natural gas in the eu's taxonomy on sustainable finance.
this step is crucial to the eu's ability to achieve its environmental objectives.
member states have started to move away from russian gas, but to be able to do so permanently, we need new investment in lpg terminals and energy infrastructure.
for the transformation of industry and the energy mix, member states need nuclear energy and natural gas, which is the transition fuel.
ukraine, a candidate country, has just started exporting energy to the eu, a crucial development as we debate the country's reconstruction plans.
as regards romania, the inclusion of nuclear energy and natural gas in the eu taxonomy is essential for our country's energy security and ability to provide the population and businesses with energy resources at an acceptable price that preserves economic competitiveness and prevents disruption to supply chains.
i will vote against the objection and strongly support the inclusion of nuclear energy and natural gas in the european taxonomy.
the european parliament shall object, in accordance with rule 111 (3), to the amendment of the delegated act on the climate dimension of taxonomy and the delegated act on taxonomy developments, as soon as the legislative form chosen to make a decisive change such as the classification of gas and nuclear energy as sustainable energy.
natural gas is important for the energy transition.
but diversification in response to the war context has to be combined with the autonomy that only renewable energy, and in particular green hydrogen, can provide.
this is essential, otherwise a substantial part of the investment classified as sustainable will be channelled to fossil energy for the transition and not to the green energy solution, thus fragmenting the market.
nuclear energy should not be taboo either, but the models of exploitation and distribution in the territory must be discussed before nuclear energy can be considered a sustainable solution to the energy transition.
the progress made by serbia on eu-related reforms has allowed us to open, last december for the first time, a cluster of four chapters on the green agenda and sustainable connectivity.
the recent agreement reached under the eu facilitated dialogue on the energy agreement's implementation roadmap is an important step forward that will hopefully unlock discussions on other outstanding issues.
we will continue to support serbia’s economic recovery, energy, food security and society, including through the significant support made available under the economic and investment plan for the western balkans.
in the case of the bulgarian minority, there is indeed a risk of an environmental catastrophe, in addition to the economic and social one.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
our atmosphere is warming faster than other parts of the world, and recent studies show that the entire nature of our climate will change unless we take serious and decisive action.
parliament's resolution represents an urgent shift in the way the european union is acting to combat the devastating effects of climate change.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment.
in the context of the green transition, as the current energy crisis reminds us, the objective must also be to ensure a reliable supply of green energy in the quantities needed and at affordable prices.
we see the impact and consequences of high energy prices on our society and economy.
when our nature and environment are threatened, our health is also threatened.
the decline in biodiversity and increasing pollution pose a general health risk and increase the risk of new pandemics.
strengthening cooperation at european level will allow for more effective coordination to prevent and prepare to manage not only infectious diseases but also the different threats to public health from environmental, food, biological and chemical sources.
madam president, commissioner, the energy crisis is getting worse, winter is coming.
member states and individual groups of the population, especially the most vulnerable, are not in an equal position to deal with the current energy crisis, especially when it comes to designing measures to mitigate the impact of insurmountable electricity and gas bills and general price increases.
i also consider it appropriate to introduce a tax on unexpected profits of the banking sector, energy, pharmaceutical and other companies, which have recorded extremely high profits during this crisis and since the beginning of the pandemic and aggression against ukraine.
mr president, commissioner, the african climate conference is an opportunity to recall a fact that is as cruel as it is unfair: africa is the world's lowest emitter of greenhouse gases, but it is also one of the biggest victims of climate change, whether it be droughts, floods, fires or the degradation of agricultural land.
so yes, states need to double down on their climate goals by 2030. and here in the european parliament we have a huge responsibility and we can no longer say things and do the opposite.
the right and the liberals, who voted with us in 2019 on the climate emergency and who are doing everything today to empty the environmental texts of the package "fit for 55" of their substance, with the war in ukraine or covid as an alibi, must change their attitude.
solving the major problem of global warming is a matter of life and death and it requires going beyond small political strategies to finally fight for the benefit of all, and in particular the african continent which hosts this cop 27 in november.
mr president, at the world’s climate summit taking place next week or next month, it’s important that progress is made there to tackle climate change.
it’s very important the cop27 is taking place in sharm el sheikh in egypt, a country on a continent that is experiencing the severe impacts of climate change.
i know that we will have a strong message delivered by countries such as somalia and ethiopia and many more nations experiencing the realities and the crisis that is climate change.
this slogan has been the theme of the climate relay for 19 days.
in the face of climate change, we need all the staff.
with the paris agreement, we committed to 1.5 degrees of global warming by 2100. do you know where we are now?
the war has shown that the european union's energy security is at risk as long as it is dependent on russia for its natural gas and other energy supplies.
this is why the commission proposed the repowereu plan in may to make the energy system safer, more affordable, more accessible and more sustainable through the deployment of renewable energy sources.
however, citizens are facing a number of new challenges, in particular in meeting basic energy needs that are not addressed in the plan and that can only be solved by a transition to green energy and a rapid reduction in energy dependence on russia.
it is necessary to reduce the time-consuming administrative procedures, simplify the complexity of the rules to increase energy efficiency and savings in buildings and accelerate the decarbonisation of the economy.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union strategy and its implementation in the member states, including through the implementation of the energy union strategy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, rule of law, human rights, gender equality, minority rights, alignment with a policy of environmental sustainability, common foreign policy: the european union must not be left to the mercy of the european parliament, which is the only institution in the world that can do so.
a sincere commitment to these values is best demonstrated in times of great trial, in the post-pandemic period, the war on our doorstep and the energy crisis.
slovenia has actively participated in the search for a common european way out of the energy crisis, where as a small country it understands very well that the solution can only be joint, solidary and european.
at the same time, the burden of solidarity with the most vulnerable in this crisis needs to be shifted to all sectors, from energy and pharmaceutical companies to the banking sector, which have benefited greatly from this and previous crises.
it’s important for the citizens, but it’s also important in terms of security, economy and environment.
indeed, i also have a critical question that i would like to ask you, and this is especially towards you as an energy expert.
you know that nuclear energy takes a long time to be built.
you know that it is causing harm to environment.
and you know that renewable energy is much cheaper and much more effective than nuclear energy.
mr president, prime minister, thank you for your inspiring vision on energy, food, freedom, for what it represents for europe.
slovenia can help make people understand that europe’s strength lies in the diversity of its people, and that the more diverse we are, the more efficient we are; that we can ensure the well—being of citizens in a more effective and sustainable way; and that we can better ensure fundamental rights.
war in ukraine and the ensuing energy and cost—of—living crisis pose new tests for the eu and call for further cooperation between member states.
your greetings on the energy systems i could not agree with more.
and this day, when the people are seeing the prices of energy, also your government will put a lot of help for their citizens.
together, we are setting global standards for people on climate policy, digital rights, healthy food, democratic values.
the climate policy mentioned above, and in particular the recovery and resilience fund.
in the current situation, which is brought about by the criminal war in ukraine and the energy crisis, despite all the efforts and achievements, i see a lack of ambition at union level, also in other areas.
i would also like to see unity in the joint responses to alleviate this crisis and a common framework for the investments needed for a green europe independent of all authoritarian states in terms of energy.